SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/iqac/Accepted-AQAR-2022-2023.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
YEARLY STATUS REPORT - 2022-2023
Part A
Data of the Institution
1.Name of the Institution VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO
VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Name of the Head of the institution Dr.C.D.Naidu
Designation Principal
Does the institution function from its own Yes
campus?
Phone No. of the Principal 9391008138
Alternate phone No. 04023041516
Mobile No. (Principal) 9494365352
Registered e-mail ID (Principal) principal@vnrvjiet.ac.in
Address Vignana Jyothi Nagar, Pragathi
Nagar, Bachupally (M), Nizampet
(S.O), Hyderabad
City/Town Hyderabad
State/UT Telangana
Pin Code 500090
2.Institutional status
Autonomous Status (Provide the date of 17/08/2012
conferment of Autonomy)
Type of Institution Co-education
Page 1/66 13-11-2024 09:59:12
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Location Urban
Financial Status Self-financing
Name of the IQAC Co-ordinator/Director Dr.Y.Bhanu Sree
Phone No. 04023042758
Mobile No: 9849448635
IQAC e-mail ID iqac@vnrvjiet.in
3.Website address (Web link of the AQAR https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdf
(Previous Academic Year) s/iqac/AQAR%202021-2022.pdf
4.Was the Academic Calendar prepared for Yes
that year?
if yes, whether it is uploaded in the https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/academic-
Institutional website Web link: calendar/
5.Accreditation Details
Cycle Grade CGPA Year of Validity from Validity to
Accreditation
Cycle 1 A+ 3.21 2013 05/01/2013 04/01/2018
Cycle 2 A++ 3.73 2018 16/08/2018 15/08/2023
6.Date of Establishment of IQAC 18/02/2013
7.Provide the list of Special Status conferred by Central and/or State Government on the
Institution/Department/Faculty/School (UGC/CSIR/DST/DBT/ICMR/TEQIP/World Bank/CPE
of UGC, etc.)?
Institution/ Depart Scheme Funding Agency Year of Award Amount
ment/Faculty/Sch with Duration
ool
VNRVJIET CPE UGC 01/07/2016 0
8.Provide details regarding the composition of the IQAC:
Upload the latest notification regarding the View File
composition of the IQAC by the HEI
Page 2/66 13-11-2024 09:59:12
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
9.No. of IQAC meetings held during the year 4
Were the minutes of IQAC meeting(s) and Yes
compliance to the decisions taken
uploaded on the institutional website?
If No, please upload the minutes of the No File Uploaded
meeting(s) and Action Taken Report
10.Did IQAC receive funding from any Yes
funding agency to support its activities during
the year?
If yes, mention the amount Rs.30,000/-
11.Significant contributions made by IQAC during the current year (maximum five bullets)
1.Submitted NAAC SSR for cycle III
2.NIRF Engineering Category - Rank Band 101-150
3.NAAC sponsored National level workshop on "Paradigm shift in
Higher Educational Institution Challenges" is conducted.
4.Faculty growth plan is implemented.
12.Plan of action chalked out by IQAC at the beginning of the academic year towards quality
enhancement and the outcome achieved by the end of the academic year:
Plan of Action Achievements/Outcomes
Renewal of NBA Accreditations Automobile Engineering Programme
submitted compliance report
Initiate Faculty Professional Implemented Faculty Professional
Growth Plan to mentor and Growth Plan
monitor for the progress of
faculty
13.Was the AQAR placed before the statutory Yes
body?
Name of the statutory body
Page 3/66 13-11-2024 09:59:12
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Name of the statutory body Date of meeting(s)
Governing Council 18/03/2024
14.Was the institutional data submitted to Yes
AISHE ?
Year
Year Date of Submission
2022-23 05/04/2024
15.Multidisciplinary / interdisciplinary
1. Delineate the vision/plan of institution to transform itself into
a holistic multidisciplinary institution. Vision of the Institute is
to be a World Class University providing value-based education,
conducting interdisciplinary research in cutting edge technologies
leading to sustainable socio-economic development of the nation.
Institute is at the forefront to provide an environment for
multidisciplinary and holistic development. Institute offers variety
of interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary courses to its students
of various programmes. 1. Delineate the Institutional approach
towards the integration of humanities and science with STEM and
provide the detail of programs with combinations. Institute is
encouraging integration of humanities and science with STEM. This is
evident from the offering of Bachelor of Business Administration in
Data Analytics as second degree to B.Tech. students. Institute plans
to offer more such courses in future. 1. Does the institution offer
flexible and innovative curricula that includes credit-based courses
and projects in the areas of community engagement and service,
environmental education, and value-based towards the attainment of a
holistic and multidisciplinary education. Explain Institute offers
flexible curriculum to its students that contain varied courses
providing holistic and multi-disciplinary education. All the courses
offered are credit-based except for the mandatory courses. Students
are provided the option of choosing elective courses (both
professional and open) as per their preferences through an online
system. Institute also offers minor degree courses in emerging
technologies like artificial intelligence and machine learning, data
science, internet of things and cyber security. Minor degree on
entrepreneurship is also offered to the students to encourage
entrepreneurial capabilities among them. Institute has also offered
the provision to pursue second degree by students i.e., BBA in Data
Page 4/66 13-11-2024 09:59:12
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Analytics along with B.Tech. degree. Value- based (credit) courses
on Professional Ethics and Human Values and Personality Development
and Public Speaking are offered. Mandatory courses on Environmental
Science, Gender Sensitization, Ancient Wisdom, Happiness and
Wellness are also offered. Students are encouraged to participate in
events and project competitions conducted by various clubs and
societies related to National Service Scheme (NSS) for their overall
development. 1. What is the institutional plan for offering a
multidisciplinary flexible curriculum that enables multiple entry
and exits at the end of 1st, 2nd and 3rd years of undergraduate
education while maintaining the rigor of learning? Explain with
examples. In line with NEP directives, VNRVJIET has introduced
multiple entry and exit provision to the students under R22 academic
regulations from the academic year 2022-2023. Some of the examples
are given below: Multiple Entry Option: A student is permitted to
rejoin B.Tech. degree programme by taking one year break while
pursuing four-year B.Tech. regular degree programme i.e., either
after completion of B.Tech. IV semester (B.Tech. II year II
semester) or B.Tech. VI semester (B.Tech. III year II semester).
Exit Option: A student is allowed to exit four-year B.Tech. regular
degree program at the end of II year. Student shall be awarded two-
year B.Tech. Diploma Certificate in the concerned branch of
engineering allotted at the time of admission, upon fulfilling the
following conditions completes all the minimum academic requirements
upto B.Tech. IV semester (B.Tech. II year II semester) and earns all
the 80 credits upto B.Tech. IV semester (B.Tech. II year II
semester) within 4 years from the date of admission in B.Tech. I
year. 1. What are the institutional plans to engage in more
multidisciplinary research endeavours to find solutions to society's
most pressing issues and challenges? Institute has an exclusive
Research and Consultancy Centre wherein faculty and researchers from
different disciplines work together on various multi-disciplinary
and inter-disciplinary projects to achieve solutions to societal
problems 1. Describe any good practice/s of the institution to
promote Multidisciplinary / interdisciplinary approach in view of
NEP 2020. Students of a specific discipline are allowed to choose
elective courses of their choice from other disciplines (open
elective) through an online system Minor degree courses in emerging
technologies being pursued by students of other disciplines Credit
Transfer through SWAYAM-NPTEL
16.Academic bank of credits (ABC):
1. Describe the initiatives taken by the institution to fulfil the
requirement of Academic bank of credits as proposed in NEP 2020.
Academic Bank of Credits (ABC) initiative under NEP 2020 facilitates
Page 5/66 13-11-2024 09:59:12
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
the academic mobility of students (multiple entry and exit) with the
freedom to study across the Higher Education Institutions in the
country. Academic mobility is gained through credit transfer
mechanism from one programme to another thereby leading to attain a
Degree/Diploma/PG diploma etc. Academic credits earned by the
students are stored digitally in ABC. Students get the option of
pursuing courses of their interest without hindrance. At VNRVJIET,
students are pursuing courses through various platforms like NPTEL,
SWAYAM, Coursera etc. However, the Institute is yet to complete the
registration. 1. Whether the institution has registered under the
ABC to permit its learners to avail the benefit of multiple entries
and exit during the chosen programme? Provide details. Institute is
in the process of registering under the ABC and wants its students
to be benefitted with ABC implementation. 1. Describe the efforts of
the institution for seamless collaboration, internationalization of
education, joint degrees between Indian and foreign institutions,
and to enable credit transfer. Institute has already implemented
credit transfer through NPTEL-SWAYAM for its B.Tech. students.
Institute has MoU with National Institute of Technology Warangal and
other foreign universities for mutual collaboration. Institute plans
to have mutual collaborations with national and foreign institutions
for offering joint degrees, twinning programmes and credit transfer
facility. 1. How faculties are encouraged to design their own
curricular and pedagogical approaches within the approved framework,
including textbook, reading material selections, assignments, and
assessments etc. Institute follows a structured process for
designing the curricula of various programmes. Faculty from a domain
is entrusted with the responsibility of framing the curriculum.
Course coordinator designs the curriculum of a course based on the
inputs received from various stakeholders like students, peers,
parents,alumni,industry experts,professional societies,regulatory
bodies etc. Course coordinators are encouraged to refer to the
curricula of higher educational institutes/reputed universities.
They are also encouraged to participate in various workshops and
FDPs related to curriculum revision. Course coordinator revises the
course curriculum based on the feedback from Program Assessment
Committee and Department Academic Committee before being approved by
the Board of Studies and subsequently by the Academic Council.
Members of the Boards of Studies and Academic Council guides in
framing the assessment and evaluation procedures to be followed. In
view of the implementation of curriculum based on NEP 2020, faculty
have attended many programs conducted by AICTE New Delhi, JNTU
Hyderabad etc. 1. Describe any good practice/s of the institution
pertaining to the implementation of Academic bank of credits (ABC)
in the institution in view of NEP 2020. Offering of NPTEL-SWAYAM
courses as an option to professional elective courses with credit
Page 6/66 13-11-2024 09:59:12
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
transfer facility.
17.Skill development:
1. Describe the efforts made by the institution to strengthen the
vocational education and soft skills of students in alignment with
National Skills Qualifications Framework Institute understands the
role of life skills and personality developmentin a student’s career
growth. Acquiring these skills would help them take up their future
roles confidently. Few courses from the curriculum like Advanced
English Language and Communication Skills Lab, Personality
Development and Public Speaking showcase the Institute’s effort in
imparting soft skills to the students. Apart from this, various
training programmes are organized regularly for the benefit of
students so that soft skills as well as technical and professional
skills among the students are developed. Students are also
encouraged to take up two mandatory certificate courses of their
choice for enhancing their skills are developed through certificate
courses, methodology and core subjects. 1. Provide the details of
the programmes offered to promote vocational education and its
integration into mainstream education. Institute’s Competency
Development Centre (CDC) and Mentoring Training and Placement Cell
organize training programmes on soft skills, personality
development, public speaking, etc. 1. How the institution is
providing Value-based education to inculcate positivity amongst the
learner that include the development of humanistic, ethical,
Constitutional, and universal human values of truth (satya),
righteous conduct (dharma), peace (shanti), love (prem), nonviolence
(ahimsa), scientific temper, citizenship values, and also life-
skills etc. Institute is always focused on providing value-based
education to its students so that they understand and inculcate the
humanistic, ethical, constitutional values. Some of the courses in
the curriculum are Professional Ethics and Human Values Ancient
Wisdom Happiness and Wellness Gender Sensitization Environmental
Science Indian Constitution 1. Enlist the institution’s efforts to:
Design a credit structure to ensure that all students take at least
one vocational course before graduating. Engaging the services of
Industry veterans and Master Crafts persons to provide vocational
skills and overcome gaps vis-à-vis trained faculty provisions. To
offer vocational education in ODL/blended/on-campus modular modes to
Learners. NSDC association to facilitate all this by creating a
unified platform to manage learner enrolment (students and workers),
skill mapping, and certification. Skilling courses are planned to be
offered to students through online and/or distance mode. Students
are encouraged to take up two mandatory certificate courses of their
choice before they graduate for enhancing their skills through
Page 7/66 13-11-2024 09:59:12
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
certificate courses, core and elective subjects and projects.
Industry personnel are invited regularly for conducting various
training programmes that enhance the skills of the students to make
them industry ready. In view of the implementation of NEP20, it is
planned to have more courses that impart skills to the students.
Students are encouraged to take up online certification courses.
Describe any good practice/s of the institution pertaining to the
Skill development in view of NEP 2020. Establishment of a Competency
Development Centre (CDC) responsible for organizing the skill
development programmes Under the R22 academic regulations,one credit
skill development courses have been introduced in B.Tech. & M.Tech.
programmes. Elective course on Entrepreneurship is offered in all
the B.Tech. programmes. Training programmes on soft skills are
conducted every year.
18.Appropriate integration of Indian Knowledge system (teaching in Indian Language, culture,
using online course)
1. Delineate the strategy and details regarding the integration of
the Indian Knowledge system (teaching in Indian Language, culture
etc,) into the curriculum using both offline and online courses.
India’s strong foundation in science and technology has been
showcased to the world through Vedic literature available in the
ancient Vedas. Institute believes in the importance of ancient
Indian knowledge systems, Indian languages, culture etc. It is
essential to make the current generation aware of these. Activities
related to literature, languages and art are conducted regularly.
Efforts are made to promote and integrate the same into the
curriculum of B.Tech. and M.Tech. programmes. Institute plans to
include the following in B.Tech. and M.Tech. curricula: Offline
course on Indian Knowledge Systems as a mandatory course Online
course on Indian Knowledge Systems Offline and online courses on
different Indian languages like Telugu, Kannada, Tamil, Malyalam,
Hindi, Marathi etc. To substantiate this, Institute in its latest
academic curriculum under R22 academic regulations has included a
mandatory course on Ancient Wisdom emphasizing the importance and
application of Indian traditional knowledge in technologies existing
then and its current perspectives. 1. What are the institutions
plans to train its faculties to provide the classroom delivery in
bilingual mode (English and vernacular)? Provide the details.
Institute has setup a Centre for Educational Technology with an aim
to conceptualize the learning and teaching with application of
modern educational teaching techniques. It is planned to entrust the
centre to conduct capacity building workshops and training programs
for faculty for delivery of curriculum bilingually. Centre would be
equipped with language translation softwares for better learning. 1.
Page 8/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Provide the details of the degree courses taught in Indian languages
and bilingually in the institution. Even though the medium of
instruction for all the B.Tech. and M.Tech. programmes offered at
VNRVJIET is English, yet the course faculty are given freedom to
teach their courses in Telugu language by considering factors like
the medium of instruction of students, ease of better understanding
of a concept in local language etc. Institute plans to offer Indian
classical languages and regional languages under openelective as
part of the implementation of National Education Policy. 1. Describe
the efforts of the institution to preserve and promote the
following: Indian languages (Sanskrit, Pali, Prakrit and classical,
tribal and endangered etc.) Indian ancient traditional knowledge
Indian Arts Indian Culture and traditions. Institute in its latest
academic curriculum under R22 academic regulations has included a
mandatory course on ‘Ancient Wisdom’ emphasizing the importance of
Indian traditional knowledge in ancient technologies and its current
perspectives. Apart from this, Institute has Arts club which
conducts programmes on Indian arts regularly and also publishes
Vignana Vahini magazine in which the students showcase their
artistic abilities through drawings, poetry in Telugu/Hindi/English
languages. 1. Describe any good practice/s of the institution
pertaining to the appropriate integration of Indian Knowledge system
(teaching in Indian Language, culture, using online course) in view
of NEP 2020. Inclusion of a mandatory course on Ancient Wisdom in
B.Tech. and M.Tech. curricula.
19.Focus on Outcome based education (OBE):Focus on Outcome based education (OBE):
1. Describe the institutional initiatives to transform its
curriculum towards Outcome based Education (OBE)? Institute is
diligently practicing Outcome based Education (OBE) framework
focusing on imparting engineering knowledge, problem solving
abilities, enhancing technical skills, research abilities and
employability potential, lifelong learning, sensitization to
environment and society etc. Curriculum has been revised four times
from 2015-2016 onwards namely under R15, R18, R19 and R22 academic
regulations. OBE based curriculum of a program contains the
following: Vision and mission of Institute, Vision and mission of
the department Program Educational Objectives (PEO) Program Outcomes
(PO) Program Specific Outcomes (PSO) A typical course curriculum
contains the following: Course title with course code Course credit
hour structure Course pre-requisites Course objectives Course
outcomes (CO) Mapping of course outcomes with program outcomes and
program specific outcomes Course content/syllabus Reading Materials
– Textbooks, References, Online resources 1. Explain the efforts
made by the institution to capture the Outcome based education in
Page 9/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
teaching and learning practices. To assess student learning outcomes
and attainment levels of Course outcomes and program outcomes under
OBE, various pedagogical initiatives and assessment strategies are
implemented which include application based teaching strategies for
critical thinking, skill based learning, learning by doing, project
based learning, inquiry based learning, experiential learning,
focused group discussions, case studies, use of ICT etc. Skill
development as envisaged by the Government of India under NEP is
supported by certificate courses. Self-learning is promoted through
MOOCs courses. Student learning outcomes i.e., course outcomes are
assessed as direct and indirect. Direct assessment through proctored
exams is computed for internal as well as semester end assessment.
Indirect assessment is computed based on surveys. Attainment levels
obtained indicate the areas for improvement. The attainment clearly
indicated required improvement in areas of research. Few of the
differentiators in practice at Institute are listed below. WIT & WIL
VNR Lab Protocol Course Projects Show & Tell Open House Online tools
used for assessment: Eduprime Learning Management System Google
Forms Mentimeter 1.Describe any good practice/s of the institution
pertaining to the Outcome based education (OBE) in view of NEP 2020.
Implemented Outcome based education framework from 2015 onwards.
Mapping of course outcomes and program outcomes on a scientific
basis. Use of active teaching-learning methodologies like WIT and
WIL, VNR Lab Protocol, Show and Tell, Storyboard etc. for better
learning outcomes. Use of Rubrics based assessments in courses like
practical, project, internship etc. In-house campus automation
software - ‘Eduprime-Learning Management System’ used for mapping
and attainment of Course Outcomes and Program Outcomes . MOOCs to
promote lifelong and self-regulated learning Mandatory certificate
courses for enhancing the skills Value based education through
curricular and co-curricular activities Extensive field activities
like Industrial visits etc.
20.Distance education/online education:
1. Delineate the possibilities of offering vocational courses
through ODL mode in the institution. At present, Institute does not
offer vocational courses. However, it is planned to offer such
courses through ODL mode in the near future. 1. Describe about the
development and use of technological tools for teaching learning
activities. Provide the details about the institutional efforts
towards the blended learning. COVID-19 pandemic forced the Institute
to impart education online. Now post-pandemic, Institute has geared
up for Blended learning approach giving equal emphasis on conducting
offline and online classes. During the academic year 2021-2022, both
online as well as on-campus classes were held for proper and smooth
Page 10/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
conducting of academic course work efficiently. Online classes are
being conducted whenever needed along with on-campus (offline)
classes. Timetables for both online and oncampus classes are
scheduled. Video conferencing tools like Google Meet/Classroom,
Microsoft Teams etc. are used for delivery of course content online.
Programming and simulation related laboratories are also being
conducted online. Virtual Labs are encouraged for performing
webenabled experiments remotely. Lecture notes, powerpoint
presentations, ebooks and reading materials of courses are shared to
students through email as well as using online video conferencing
tools and social media platform like WhatsApp. Recorded videos of
experiments that need physical hands-on were shared online. Revision
/ remedial classes are conducted online for the benefit of slow
learners. Class Assessments are conducted online using Campus
Automation Management System - Eduprime software. Student feedback
is also obtained using Eduprime software. In addition to the above,
Course Projects, Internship, Industry Oriented Mini-Project,
Technical Seminar, Comprehensive Viva Voce and Project Work are
conducted both in online and on-campus for completion of the
program. Apart from these, students are allowed to pursue NPTEL-
SWAYAM as part of credit transfer facility as well as other MOOCs
for promoting self-learning. Also, all the journals and books
available in the Institute library were made accessible to the
students for online and remote reading through ‘Knimbus’ app of VNR
Digital Library. Institute has a plan to introduce handheld adaptive
computing devices for students that are based on artificial
intelligence and machine learning technologies as well as upgrade
and enhance the existing digital infrastructure capacity so as to be
future ready. 1. Describe any good practice/s of the institution
pertaining to the Distance education/online education in view of NEP
2020. Institute has an active NPTEL local chapter through which they
are encouraged to take up online certification courses for their
upskilling. Institute used the opportunity due to COVID-19 pandemic
and potential of our faculty and infrastructure in curriculum
delivery of courses of B.Tech. and M.Tech. programmes through online
platforms for teaching learning activities.
Extended Profile
1.Programme
1.1 27
Number of programmes offered during the year:
Page 11/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Documents
Institutional Data in Prescribed Format View File
2.Student
2.1 6948
Total number of students during the year:
File Description Documents
Institutional data in Prescribed format View File
2.2 1437
Number of outgoing / final year students during the year:
File Description Documents
Institutional Data in Prescribed Format View File
2.3 6784
Number of students who appeared for the examinations conducted
by the institution during the year:
File Description Documents
Institutional Data in Prescribed Format View File
3.Academic
3.1 1127
Number of courses in all programmes during the year:
File Description Documents
Institutional Data in Prescribed Format View File
3.2 418
Number of full-time teachers during the year:
Page 12/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Extended Profile
1.Programme
1.1 27
Number of programmes offered during the year:
File Description Documents
Institutional Data in Prescribed Format View File
2.Student
2.1 6948
Total number of students during the year:
File Description Documents
Institutional data in Prescribed format View File
2.2 1437
Number of outgoing / final year students during the year:
File Description Documents
Institutional Data in Prescribed Format View File
2.3 6784
Number of students who appeared for the examinations
conducted by the institution during the year:
File Description Documents
Institutional Data in Prescribed Format View File
3.Academic
3.1 1127
Number of courses in all programmes during the year:
File Description Documents
Institutional Data in Prescribed Format View File
Page 13/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
3.2 418
Number of full-time teachers during the year:
File Description Documents
Institutional Data in Prescribed Format View File
3.3 418
Number of sanctioned posts for the year:
4.Institution
4.1 681
Number of seats earmarked for reserved categories as per
GOI/State Government during the year:
4.2 113
Total number of Classrooms and Seminar halls
4.3 2881
Total number of computers on campus for academic purposes
4.4 7052.97518
Total expenditure, excluding salary, during the year (INR in
Lakhs):
Part B
CURRICULAR ASPECTS
1.1 - Curriculum Design and Development
1.1.1 - Curricula developed and implemented have relevance to the local, national, regional and
global developmental needs which are reflected in Programme Outcomes (POs), Programme
Specific Outcomes (PSOs) and Course Outcomes (COs) of the various Programmes offered by the
Institution.
The primary objective of the institute is to create techno-
managerial cadres who can engage effectively the emerging
globalism and contribute for national development. The
institute carefully designs courses keeping in mind the
needs of the nation and the region. The institute has
meticulously drawn the graduate attributes and designed the
Program Educational Objectives (PEO). Keeping the PEOs as
Page 14/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
base, the Program Outcomes (PO) and Program Specific
Outcomes (PSO) are charted out. The objective is always to
create a technical knowledge storehouse needed for Science
and Technology enabled development. The innovative
curricular design architectured by amalgamating teaching,
research and outreach activities have led the institution to
the present level of College with Potential for Excellence.
Curricula of all the programs developed and adopted at
VNRVJIET covers multiple facets like providing engineering
knowledge, desirable attributes, professional ethics and
relevant technical and non-technical skills. Along with
these skills it also encapsulates societal aspirations. To
promote higher order thinking through analyzing, evaluating
concepts, processes, procedures and principles in education,
the course outcomes are designed in line with the revised
Bloom’s Taxonomy.
The program outcomes (PO), program specific outcomes (PSO)
and course outcomes (CO) are developed based on graduate
attributes:
Engineering knowledge
Problem analysis
Design/development of solutions
Conduct investigations of complex problems using
research
Modern tool usage
Engineer and the society
Environment and sustainability
Ethics
Individual and team work
Communication
Project management and finance and
Life-long learning.
Complete document is provided in additionalinformation.
File Description Documents
Upload additional information, View File
if any
Link for additional information
https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/academics/
Page 15/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
1.1.2 - Number of Programmes where syllabus revision was carried out during the year
27
File Description Documents
Minutes of relevant Academic View File
Council/BOS meeting
Details of syllabus revision View File
during the year
Any additional information No File Uploaded
1.1.3 - Number of courses focusing on employability/entrepreneurship/ skill development
offered by the Institution during the year
1127
File Description Documents
Curriculum / Syllabus of such View File
courses
Minutes of the Boards of View File
Studies/ Academic Council
meetings with approval for these
courses
MoUs with relevant View File
organizations for these courses,
if any
Any additional information No File Uploaded
1.2 - Academic Flexibility
1.2.1 - Number of new courses introduced across all programmes offered during the year
174
File Description Documents
Minutes of relevant Academic View File
Council/BoS meetings
Any additional information No File Uploaded
Institutional data in prescribed View File
format (Data Template)
1.2.2 - Number of Programmes offered through Choice Based Credit System (CBCS)/Elective
Course System
Page 16/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
27
File Description Documents
Minutes of relevant Academic View File
Council/BoS meetings
Any additional information No File Uploaded
List of Add on /Certificate View File
programs (Data Template)
1.3 - Curriculum Enrichment
1.3.1 - Institution integrates cross-cutting issues relevant to Professional Ethics, Gender, Human
Values, Environment and Sustainability, and Human Values into the curriculum
The students of VNRVJIET are moulded as responsible Engineers by
creating awareness and addressing the societal and generic
needs.Along with a standardized learning plan, the curriculum is
enriched by including the courses like Gender Sensitization,
Environmental Studies, Energy Auditing, etc. This enriches the
knowledge base of the student and improves the selfactualization
and belongingness to the society. Apart from the above, Institute
has a Centre of Excellence for Disaster Management which offers
and conducts various awareness workshops and seminars from time to
time. Few courses offered in the curriculum are developed to cater
to the needs of security and sustainable environment like Green
IT, Cyber Security, Big Data Analytics etc. Institute conducts
seminars/guest lectures/awareness programmes inculcating human
values and moral ethics into students.
Few of themare listed below.
Blood donation camp
Tree plantation
Swachh Bharat
Motivation lectures
Save Trees
World Environment Day
Teachers Day
Page 17/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Professional Ethics for Engineers
File Description Documents
Upload the list and description View File
of the courses which address
issues related to Gender,
Environment and Sustainability,
Human Values and Professional
Ethics in the curriculum
Any additional information View File
1.3.2 - Number of value-added courses for imparting transferable and life skills offered
during the year
117
File Description Documents
List of value-added courses View File
Brochure or any other document View File
relating to value-added courses
Any additional information No File Uploaded
1.3.3 - Number of students enrolled in the courses under 1.3.2 above
4656
File Description Documents
List of students enrolled View File
Any additional information View File
1.3.4 - Number of students undertaking field work/projects/ internships / student projects
3553
File Description Documents
List of programmes and number View File
of students undertaking field
projects / internships / student
projects
Any additional information No File Uploaded
1.4 - Feedback System
Page 18/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
1.4.1 - Structured feedback and review of the A. All 4 of the above
syllabus (semester-wise / year-wise) is
obtained from 1) Students 2) Teachers 3)
Employers and 4) Alumni
File Description Documents
Provide the URL for
stakeholders’ feedback report https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/stakeholderfeedback
/
Upload the Action Taken Report No File Uploaded
of the feedback as recorded by
the Governing Council /
Syndicate / Board of
Management
Any additional information No File Uploaded
1.4.2 - The feedback system of the Institution A. Feedback collected, analysed
comprises the following and action taken made available
on the website
File Description Documents
Provide URL for stakeholders’
feedback report https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/stakeholderfeedback
/
Any additional information No File Uploaded
TEACHING-LEARNING AND EVALUATION
2.1 - Student Enrollment and Profile
2.1.1 - Enrolment of Students
2.1.1.1 - Number of students admitted (year-wise) during the year
1840
File Description Documents
Any additional information No File Uploaded
Institutional data in prescribed View File
format
2.1.2 - Number of seats filled against reserved categories (SC, ST, OBC, Divyangjan, etc.) as
per the reservation policy during the year (exclusive of supernumerary seats)
Page 19/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
927
File Description Documents
Any additional information No File Uploaded
Number of seats filled against View File
seats reserved (Data Template)
2.2 - Catering to Student Diversity
2.2.1 - The institution assesses students’ learning levels and organises special programmes for both
slow and advanced learners.
Diagnosing learners’ abilities:
Diagnostic test is conducted in Mathematics, Physics,
Chemistry, English and C programming. Based on the
performance in these tests, students abilities are
identified.
A structured Mentoring and Training Programme is in place.
Every student is provided with a faculty mentor and the
scheduled interactions are recoded in a well- designed MTP
book. During the course of interaction, the SWOC (Strengths
Weakness, Opportunities, Challenges) analysis is recorded.
Based on the interactions, SWOC and regular performance,
students abilities are identified and necessary counseling,
training are provided to cater the needs of slow and
advanced learners.
Subject experts and class in-charges through classroom
interaction and counselling classes, identifies the
strengths and weakness of individual students. In addition
the HODs with the help of Mentors identify students who are
slow learners and having backlogs.
Catering the needs of advance Learners:
Advanced learners are exposed to new technologies after
class hours, by encouraging them to participate in the
research activities in RCC of the institution, Week-end
projects lab.
Students are guided to take up additional courses viz. NPTEL
courses, MOOCs, ORACLE certification, Microsoft
certification, Pegasystems certification, learn Tools like R
Lab, MATLAB, Android OS, PSCAD, Mi-Power, PSPICE, CAD/CAM.
Also the advance learners are provided with training in
Programming through Being Zero, Internships in AMD, Amazon,
Page 20/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Mroads, Siemens, HBL, BHEL, TCS, DRDO, NRSA, GGK
Technologies, Hyundai Mobis etc.
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
information Nil
2.2.2 - Student – Teacher (full-time) ratio
Year Number of Students Number of Teachers
01/07/2022 6948 418
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
2.3 - Teaching- Learning Process
2.3.1 - Student-centric methods such as experiential learning, participative learning and problem-
solving methodologies are used for enhancing learning experiences:
The teaching-learning process is one of the major objective and
strength of our institution. VNRVJIET focuses on learner-centric
approaches in the delivery of curriculum for the all-round
development of students. Vibrant teaching-learning process, mostly
learner-centric,are used viz. WIT & WIL™, Storyboard, VNR Lab
Protocol, Process Oriented Guided Inquiry Learning (POGIL),
Learning by Doing, Think-Pair-Share, Course Based Projects, Field
visit / Guest lecture, Certificate courses, Project Based
Learning. The institution has initiated many novel methodologies
and techniques in teaching learning as its differentiators.
1. Experiential Learning Methodologies followed in the
Institution
Learning by doing: A technique where students learn by
experiencing the process in practical way.
VNR Lab Protocol (TM): For each laboratory course, VNR Lab
Protocol is followed through which a student understands
what he will learn and why in a structured format.
Page 21/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Story board: Storyboard is a visual representation in the
form ofimages, block diagrams or illustrationsdisplayed for
the purpose ofpre-visualizing the concepts of the laboratory
experiments in a single real-time application. This is
presented to the students before conducting practical
experiments in the laboratory to create enthusiasm among
them.
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Link for additional Information
Nil
2.3.2 - Teachers use ICT-enabled tools including online resources for effective teaching and
learning
ICT enables teachers and students to participate in a rapidly
changing futuristic world in which teaching and learning
activities are increasingly transformed and it would allow the
students to have ready access to the advanced technology in
engineering. Teachers at VNR VJIET are combining technology and
traditional mode of teaching to engage students in long term
learning. The institute uses Information and Communication
Technology (ICT) in education to support, enhance, and optimize
the delivery of education.
Use of internet and its allied tools in the classroom education is
not new to the faculty and students of VNRVJIET. Tools like E-
learning module of Edu prime software for posting academic plan
and schedule, student attendance, conducting assessments like
quizzes and assignments; power point presentations for the regular
classroom instruction, emails, and other social media platforms
for sharing of learning material, NPTEL and you tube videos as
supplementary teaching resources, other MOOC for additional
teaching and learning content etc. are used by the faculty.
Page 22/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Documents
Provide link for webpage
describing ICT enabled tools https://automation.vnrvjiet.ac.in/EduPrime
including online resources for 3
effective teaching and learning
process
Upload any additional View File
information
2.3.3 - Ratio of students to mentor for academic and other related issues
2.3.3.1 - Number of mentors
409
File Description Documents
Upload year-wise number of View File
students enrolled and full-time
teachers on roll
Circulars with regard to View File
assigning mentors to mentees
2.3.4 - Preparation and adherence to Academic Calendar and Teaching Plans by the institution
Institute Academic Committee (IAC) collects the plan of action
from Department and Section heads. The inputs collected are put
forth in the Academic section. The section along with Principal
and Deans collectively prepares the Academic calendar. The
calendar is made available to the students before the commencement
of classwork. The academic calendar is displayed on all the
department notice boards, and is made available on the website
through http://vnrvjiet.ac.in/bac.php and
http://vnrvjiet.ac.in/mac.php. The academic activities within the
institution are strictly adhering to the calendar events. In
adverse cases to deviate from the academic plan, approval of IAC
should be taken. All the examinations are being conducted as per
the Academic Calendar.
File Description Documents
Upload the Academic Calendar View File
and Teaching Plans during the
year
2.4 - Teacher Profile and Quality
Page 23/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
2.4.1 - Number of full-time teachers against sanctioned posts during the year
418
File Description Documents
Year-wise full-time teachers and View File
sanctioned posts for the year
List of the faculty members View File
authenticated by the Head of
HEI
Any additional information No File Uploaded
2.4.2 - Number of full-time teachers with PhD/ D.M. / M.Ch. / D.N.B Super-Specialty / DSc /
DLitt during the year
258
File Description Documents
List of number of full-time View File
teachers with PhD./ D.M. /
M.Ch. / D.N.B Super-Specialty /
D.Sc. / D.Litt. and number of
full-time teachers for 5 years
Any additional information No File Uploaded
2.4.3 - Total teaching experience of full-time teachers in the same institution: (Full-time
teachers’ total teaching experience in the current institution)
3466
File Description Documents
List of teachers including their View File
PAN, designation, Department
and details of their experience
Any additional information No File Uploaded
2.5 - Evaluation Process and Reforms
2.5.1 - Number of days from the date of last semester-end/ year- end examination till
the declaration of results during the year
38
Page 24/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Documents
List of Programmes and the date View File
of last semester-end / year-end
examinations and the date of
declaration of result
Any additional information No File Uploaded
2.5.2 - Number of students’ complaints/grievances against evaluation against the total
number who appeared in the examinations during the year
329
File Description Documents
Upload the number of View File
complaints and total number of
students who appeared for
exams during the year
Upload any additional No File Uploaded
information
2.5.3 - IT integration and reforms in the examination procedures and processes including
Continuous Internal Assessment (CIA) have brought in considerable improvement in the
Examination Management System (EMS) of the Institution
1. Examination procedures
The College has been continuously carrying out of reforms in its
examination and evaluation procedure through integration of IT in
all the procedures and processes of the examination system.
The reforms have also been implemented in the Continuous Internal
Evaluation (CIE), Semester End Examination (SEE) and in other
components.
Examination procedure has been completely automated using in-house
IT software (CAMS -Examination Module)
1. Examination Procedures and IT Integration
Adopting semester patterns of examination with continuous
evaluation system.
Inclusion of seminar project, assignment, seminar presentation
etc. as components of evaluation.
Page 25/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
CBCS has been implemented.
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
Information https://vnrvjietexams.net/EduPrimeExam/Ed
uPrime
2.6 - Student Performance and Learning Outcomes
2.6.1 - Programme Outcomes and Course Outcomes for all Programmes offered by the institution
are stated and displayed on the website and communicated to teachers and students
Outcome Based Education (OBE) is implemented in this Institute
since 2012 as OBE give emphasis on what is expected from the
student when they finish their course. In line with OBE Program
Specific Outcomes (PSOs), Program Outcomes (POs) and Course
Outcomes (COs) are evolved. This OBE is mandatory in all
regulationg bodies like NBA and NAAC etc. OBE provides/helps the
student to achieve the outcomes of significance before leaving the
Institute.
Every department establishes the Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs),
Program Outcomes (POs)in consistent with the Graduate Attributes
mandated by NBA and PEOs of the programme by considering the
inputs from faculty and alumni in cognizance of latest technology
demand, job prospects and societal requirements.
Program Specific Outs (PSOs)/Program Outs (POs) exhibits what
students are expected to do or learn by the time of their
graduation. These are evolved through consultation process with
the stake holders keeping these Graduate attributes as basis..
Page 26/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Documents
Upload COs for all courses View File
(exemplars from the Glossary)
Upload any additional No File Uploaded
information
Link for additional Information
https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/syllabus-books/
2.6.2 - Attainment of Programme Outcomes and Course Outcomes as evaluated by the institution
The Program Outcomes (POs) / Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs) are
the qualities that must be imbibed in the graduates by the time of
completion of their program. At the end of each program, the
PO/PSO assessment is done from the CO attainment of all curriculum
components. The PSOs are framed recently based on latest NBA
guidelines. Each course has defined set of course outcomes and
corresponding evaluation criteria. The course outcomes are mapped
to the program outcomes which are used to provide the quantitative
measurement of how well the program outcomes are achieved. In each
course, the level of attainment of each CO is compared with the
predefined targets, if is not the course coordinator takes
necessary steps for the improvement to reach the target. With the
help of CO against PO/PSO mapping, the PO/PSO attainment is
calculated by the programme coordinator.
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
Information Nil
2.6.3 - Pass Percentage of students
2.6.3.1 - Total number of final year students who passed in the examinations conducted by
Institution
1354
Page 27/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Documents
Upload list of Programmes and View File
number of students appear for
and passed in the final year
examinations
Upload any additional No File Uploaded
information
Paste link for the annual report
Nil
2.7 - Student Satisfaction Survey
2.7.1 - Student Satisfaction Survey (SSS) on overall institutional performance (Institution
may design its own questionnaire). Results and details need to be provided as a weblink
https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/20241022151359.pdf
RESEARCH, INNOVATIONS AND EXTENSION
3.1 - Promotion of Research and Facilities
3.1.1 - The institution’s research facilities are frequently updated and there is a well-defined policy
for promotion of research which is uploaded on the institutional website and implemented
VNRVJIET has an exclusive Research and Consultancy Centre and has
well defined policy for promoting research, consultancy & IPR
culture. Faculty are encouraged to actively involved in research
and consultancy work to carry out societal impact and,
interdisciplinary projects by providing seed money and incentives.
VNRVJIET has 5 Research centres recognized by JNTUH, 8 exclusive
R&D laboratories, 10 Centers of Research. Nearly Rs.10 crores of
funds are mobilized from Government and nongovernment sources. 9
full time Research scholars are pursuing Ph.D in the Research
centers of the institution under AICTE-NDF scheme and JNTUH. 12%
of the faculty are recognized as research guides. Research
Advisory Board with eminent scientists, researchers and
academicians guides the activities of the institution Research and
Consultancy Centre. The Research and Consultancy Centre is driven
by a strong Research policy approved by the Governing
Council.VNRVJIET adheres to the code of ethics. Turnitin software
is purchased and used for checking plagiarism of research
publications and thesis of UG, PG, Ph.D and faculty. Grammarly
Software is madeavailable in RCC for improving quality of Research
articles and Project proposals. Derwent Innovation software is
purchased and made available forproprietary patent search.
Page 28/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Documents
Upload the Minutes of the View File
Governing Council/
Syndicate/Board of
Management related to research
promotion policy adoption
Provide URL of policy
document on promotion of https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/home/re
research uploaded on the searchpolicy.pdf
website
Any additional information View File
3.1.2 - The institution provides seed money to its teachers for research
3.1.2.1 - Seed money provided by the institution to its teachers for research during the year
(INR in lakhs)
12.5177
File Description Documents
Minutes of the relevant bodies View File
of the institution regarding seed
money
Budget and expenditure View File
statements signed by the
Finance Officer indicating seed
money provided and utilized
List of teachers receiving grant View File
and details of grant received
Any additional information No File Uploaded
3.1.3 - Number of teachers who were awarded national / international fellowship(s) for
advanced studies/research during the year
06
File Description Documents
e-copies of the award letters of View File
the teachers
List of teachers and details of View File
their international fellowship(s)
Any additional information No File Uploaded
Page 29/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
3.2 - Resource Mobilization for Research
3.2.1 - Grants received from Government and Non-Governmental agencies for research
projects, endowments, Chairs during the year (INR in Lakhs)
86.94
File Description Documents
e-copies of the grant award View File
letters for research projects
sponsored by non-governmental
agencies/organizations
List of projects and grant details View File
Any additional information No File Uploaded
3.2.2 - Number of teachers having research projects during the year
14
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
Information Nil
List of research projects during View File
the year
3.2.3 - Number of teachers recognised as research guides
69
File Description Documents
Upload copies of the letter of View File
the university recognizing
teachers as research guides
Institutional data in Prescribed View File
format
3.2.4 - Number of departments having research projects funded by Government and Non-
Government agencies during the year
06
Page 30/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Documents
Supporting document from View File
Funding Agencies
Paste link to funding agencies’
website Nil
Any additional information View File
3.3 - Innovation Ecosystem
3.3.1 - Institution has created an ecosystem for innovations and creation and transfer of knowledge
supported by dedicated centres for research, entrepreneurship, community orientation, incubation,
etc.
Entrepreneurship Development Cell: Functions of ED Cell:
To train, guide, motivate and encourage the engineering students
towards another avenue called entrepreneurship.
To disseminate knowledge of entrepreneurship development.
To give requisite inputs for starting a successful venture like
technical know-how, acquiring financial assistance, licensing,
pollution control
Tips to maintain the business after successful launching
Assistance in identifying product and services Assisting in
preparing project report for feasibility
To liaison with officials of NEN, EDI, SISI, APITCO, SIDBI, IDBI,
MSME, APSFC, APSIDC etc
To encourage young talented entrepreneurs to set up units in this
region.
To keep the management information for dissemination for
prospective entrepreneurs for setting up a venture.
To act as knowledge hub for entrepreneurship development.
Consultancy services for entrepreneurship development.
To build data base for industrial statistics
To develop research activities in entrepreneurship development
Page 31/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
VignanaJyothiFoundation for Entrepreneurial Excellence(“VJ Hub”)
Facilitate incubation of new enterprises with innovative
technologies & cutting-edge industry research by admitting them in
the incubator. Provide them physical, technical, and networking
supports / services. Business incubation programs are designed to
accelerate the successful development of entrepreneurial companies
through an array of business support resources and services
offered both by the incubator and through its network.
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
information https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/research/
3.3.2 - Number of workshops/seminars conducted on Research Methodology, Intellectual
Property Rights (IPR), Entrepreneurship and Skill Development during the year
12
File Description Documents
Report of the events View File
List of workshops/seminars View File
conducted during the year
Any additional information No File Uploaded
3.4 - Research Publications and Awards
3.4.1 - The Institution ensures A. All of the above
implementation of its Code of Ethics for
Research uploaded in the website through the
following: Research Advisory Committee
Ethics Committee Inclusion of Research
Ethics in the research methodology course
work Plagiarism check through
authenticated software
Page 32/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Documents
Code of Ethics for Research, View File
Research Advisory Committee
and Ethics Committee
constitution and list of members
of these committees, software
used for plagiarism check
Any additional information No File Uploaded
3.4.2 - Number of PhD candidates registered per teacher (as per the data given with regard to
recognized PhD guides/ supervisors provided in Metric No. 3.2.3) during the year
3.4.2.1 - Number of PhD students registered during the year
09
File Description Documents
URL to the research page on
HEI website https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/research/
List of PhD scholars and details View File
like name of the guide, title of
thesis, and year of registration
Any additional information View File
3.4.3 - Number of research papers per teacher in CARE Journals notified on UGC website
during the year
294
File Description Documents
List of research papers by title, View File
author, department, and year of
publication
Any additional information No File Uploaded
3.4.4 - Number of books and chapters in edited volumes / books published per teacher during
the year
316
Page 33/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
information Nil
3.4.5 - Bibliometrics of the publications during the year based on average Citation Index in
Scopus/ Web of Science/PubMed
3.4.5.1 - Total number of Citations in Scopus during the year
1233
File Description Documents
Any additional information No File Uploaded
Bibliometrics of the View File
publications during the year
3.4.6 - Bibliometrics of the publications during the year based on Scopus/ Web of Science – h-
Index of the University
3.4.6.1 - h-index of Scopus during the year
51
File Description Documents
Bibiliometrics of publications View File
based on Scopus/ Web of
Science - h-index of the
Institution
Any additional information No File Uploaded
3.5 - Consultancy
3.5.1 - Revenue generated from consultancy and corporate training during the year (INR in
lakhs)
25.84
Page 34/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Documents
Audited statements of accounts View File
indicating the revenue generated
through consultancy and
corporate training
List of consultants and revenue View File
generated by them
Any additional information No File Uploaded
3.5.2 - Total amount spent on developing facilities, training teachers and clerical/project staff
for undertaking consultancy during the year
2.11
File Description Documents
Audited statements of accounts View File
indicating the expenditure
incurred on developing facilities
and training teachers and staff
for undertaking consultancy
List of training programmes, View File
teachers and staff trained for
undertaking consultancy
List of facilities and staff View File
available for undertaking
consultancy
Any additional information No File Uploaded
3.6 - Extension Activities
3.6.1 - Extension activities carried out in the neighbourhood sensitising students to social issues for
their holistic development, and the impact thereof during the year
VNRVJIET Mission is to produce technically competent and socially
responsible engineers. With this mission the institution believes
that all rounded personality of students is only possible with
exploring the students to real time social issues. The students
are motivated to be proactive in solving these social issues
through empathy and by providing technical solutions through
societal impact projects. Some socio technical solution provided
by the student are, AI based COVID-19 diagnosis using chest X-ray
image, Development of smart seed sowing mechanism for villages,
Identification of groundwaterrecharge potential zones in Pragathi
Nagar by using Arc-GIS software etc.. The Institution has a total
Page 35/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
of 33 clubs and chapters which are active student bodies providing
a venue for indulging in co-circular and extracurricular extension
and outreach activities.
About 200 student volunteers in two NSS units conducted100
activities of State and Central Govt. programmes like
Harithaharam, Swatch Bharath, Clean India, Digital awareness
programs, Road safety awareness, Rashtriya Ektha Divas, UBA
programs. Free health camps, Blood donation camps, Eye testing
camps, Career guidance, etc., 1201 units of blood were donated to
Thalassemia patients. Around 1000 plant saplings were distributed
and planted.
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
information Nil
3.6.2 - Number of awards and recognition received by the Institution, its teachers and
students for extension activities from Government / Government-recognised bodies during
the year
05
File Description Documents
Number of awards for extension View File
activities in during the year
e-copy of the award letters View File
Any additional information No File Uploaded
3.6.3 - Number of extension and outreach programmes conducted by the institution through
NSS/NCC/Red Cross/YRC, etc. during the year (including Government-initiated
programmes such as Swachh Bharat, AIDS Awareness, and Gender Sensitization and those
organised in collaboration with industry, community and NGOs)
33
File Description Documents
Reports of the events organized View File
Any additional information View File
3.6.4 - Number of students participating in extension activities listed in 3.6.3 during the year
Page 36/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
3540
File Description Documents
Reports of the events View File
Any additional information No File Uploaded
3.7 - Collaboration
3.7.1 - Number of collaborative activities during the year for research/ faculty exchange/
student exchange/ internship/ on-the-job training/ project work
139
File Description Documents
Copies of documents View File
highlighting collaboration
Any additional information No File Uploaded
3.7.2 - Number of functional MoUs with institutions of national and/or international
importance, other universities, industries, corporate houses, etc. during the year (only
functional MoUs with ongoing activities to be considered)
34
File Description Documents
e-copies of the MoUs with View File
institution/ industry/ corporate
house
Details of functional MoUs with View File
institutions of national,
international importance, other
institutions etc. during the year
Any additional information No File Uploaded
INFRASTRUCTURE AND LEARNING RESOURCES
4.1 - Physical Facilities
4.1.1 - The Institution has adequate infrastructure and physical facilities for teaching-learning, viz.,
classrooms, laboratories, computing equipments, etc.
The VNRVJIET spreads over an area of 26.85 acres, with a built-up
area of 76,028 square meters. Every department is well-equipped
with the necessary facilities and amenities to create an effective
teaching and learning environment. The campus boasts 109
Page 37/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
classrooms, 4 seminar halls, 2 auditoriums, 128academic
laboratories, 10 research laboratories, and 3 workshops over and
above the statutory bodies specified requirements. Wi-Fi coverage
spans the entire campus, facilitating e-learning opportunities.
All thelaboratories are equipped with the latest equipment to meet
the curriculum and research requirements. The campus is adorned
with well-maintained greenery, including trees, lawns, and various
sculptures.
The institute has exclusive hostels for Boys and Girls. The
students are accommodated in 12 storied modern buildings with all
necessary facilities like Wi-Fi, computer labs, GYM, YOGA room,
stationary, cafeteria and play fields to facilitate effective
learning and all-round development.
To ensure uninterrupted power supply to laboratories, classrooms
and hostels, the institute is equipped with three generators: one
with a capacity of 500KVA, 250KVA, and 125KVA. The hostel is also
equipped with two generators, 250KVA and 125KVA. Solar power
765kWp is installed in campus and hostel.
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
information https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/campuslife/
4.1.2 - The institution has adequate facilities for cultural activities, yoga, sports and games (indoor
and outdoor) including gymnasium, yoga centre, auditorium etc.)
VNRVJIET's commitment to provide adequate facilities for cultural
activities, yoga, games and sports demonstrates its recognition of
the holistic development and well-roundedness of individuals.
These facilities go beyond academics, allowing students and staff
to engage in various activities that contribute to personal
growth, exploration of interests, a healthy lifestyle, and the
development of essential life skills.
Cultural Activities:
Various student clubs have been established, including the
Literary club, Crescendo-The Music club, Creative arts club,
Livewire-The dance club, Dramatics club, Nritya Tarang – The
classical dance club, Photography & short film shooting club.
Students actively engage in these clubs, practicing and
Page 38/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
participating in extracurricular activities. They also take part
in national-level competitions, where they have achieved success
by winning awards and prizes.
Student Activity Centre (SAC) is an exclusive facility with a
built-up area of 525sq.m. to host both professional and cultural
clubs. The SAC is managed bythe students, to design diverse
activities under therespective cultural clubs and professional
chapters. The institution has spent Rs.166.35 Lakhs to promote
cultural and professional activities and infrastructure. Institute
hasYoga Centre, Games and Sports (Indoor & Outdoor), Gymnasium,
and Auditorium.
File Description Documents
Geotagged pictures View File
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
information https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/campuslife/
4.1.3 - Number of classrooms and seminar halls with ICT-enabled facilities
113
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Upload Number of classrooms View File
and seminar halls with ICT
enabled facilities (Data
Template)
4.1.4 - Expenditure for infrastructure augmentation, excluding salary, during the year (INR
in Lakhs)
3722.51049
Page 39/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Documents
Upload audited utilization View File
statements
Details of Expenditure, View File
excluding salary, during the
years
Any additional information No File Uploaded
4.2 - Library as a Learning Resource
4.2.1 - Library is automated using Integrated Library Management System (ILMS)
The institution has a well-equipped Library Information Resource
Centre(LIRC) with various learning resources enabling the
stakeholders to access in physical oronline mode. The library has
a collection of 82,931 volumes and 17,585 titles. The library is a
member of DELNET, N-LIST which helps to provide hassle-free e-
learning. The books are shelved as per the Dewey Decimal
Classification scheme to facilitate easy location of the books by
Open Access System. Apart from Central library, Department
libraries are also maintained with latest books as per their
requirements.
The library also maintainsa Book Bank for SC/ST students which
provides an opportunity to own additional books offered by
theSocial Welfare Department, Govt. of Telangana. So far, 2908
books are issued to SC students and 172 books to ST students. The
librarymaintains an EPS Book bankto issue four additional books
for the economically poor students. The library OPAC (Online
Public Access Catalogue) provides information of the library
collection online. The library OPAC is accessible with the
URLhttp://vnr-vjietopac.2cqrkoha.com/ . The library has
subscriptiontoe-Books of Lakshmi publications, Videeya Books, and
N-LIST. The library isunder CCTV surveillance.
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
information https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/library/
4.2.2 - Institution has access to the following: A. Any 4 or more of the above
e-journals e-ShodhSindhu Shodhganga
Membership e-books Databases Remote
Page 40/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
access to e-resources
File Description Documents
Details of subscriptions like e- View File
journals, e-books, e-
ShodhSindhu, Shodhganga
membership
Upload any additional View File
information
4.2.3 - Expenditure on purchase of books/ e-books and subscription to journals/e-journals
during the year (INR in lakhs)
47.429
File Description Documents
Audited statements of accounts View File
Any additional information No File Uploaded
Details of annual expenditure View File
for purchase of books/e-books
and journals/e- journals during
the year (Data Template)
4.2.4 - Usage of library by teachers and students (footfalls and login data for online access)
4.2.4.1 - Number of teachers and students using the library per day during the year
429
File Description Documents
Upload details of library usage View File
by teachers and students
Any additional information No File Uploaded
4.3 - IT Infrastructure
4.3.1 - Institution has an IT policy covering Wi-Fi, cyber security, etc. and has allocated budget for
updating its IT facilities
The Campus Network Control Centre (CNCC), in the institution has
been established in the year 2008 with a focus on reliability,
performance, and cost efficiency of internet. The CNCC, supported
by advanced equipment, robust security measures, and comprehensive
Wi-Fi connectivity, ensures a reliable and secure network
infrastructure within the institute. The DHCP server simplifies IP
Page 41/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
address assignment, while the FTP server enables efficient file
storage and remote access. The implementation of the highly secure
Supermassive Sonic WALL 9200 firewall guarantees cybersecurity.
The video surveillance system and digital signages contribute to
campus safety and effective communication. The periodical updates
and maintenance of these systems are carried out by qualified in-
house personnel, ensuring optimal performance and security.
Campus Network Infrastructure:
The IT policy is in place for effective maintenance and
upgradation of the network infrastructure. The internet includes
139 CISCO switches, 154 wireless access points, ensuring
comprehensive Wi-Fi coverage across thecampus. In addition to the
network infrastructure, regular updates and maintenance of network
are performed by an exclusive team of 8qualified in-house
personnelswith CISCO certified team lead, to ensure the firewall's
effectiveness and to address emerging security concerns.
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
information https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/
4.3.2 - Student - Computer ratio
Number of Students Number of Computers
6948 2881
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
4.3.3 - Bandwidth of internet connection in A. ?50 Mbps
the Institution and the number of students on
campus
Page 42/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Documents
Details of bandwidth available View File
in the Institution
Upload any additional View File
information
4.3.4 - Institution has facilities for e-content A. All four of the above
development: Facilities available
for e-content development Media Centre
Audio-Visual Centre Lecture Capturing
System (LCS) Mixing equipments and
software for editing
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
information https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/
List of facilities for e-content View File
development (Data Template)
4.4 - Maintenance of Campus Infrastructure
4.4.1 - Expenditure incurred on maintenance of physical and academic support facilities,
excluding salary component, during the year (INR in lakhs)
3330.4646
File Description Documents
Audited statements of accounts View File
Upload any additional View File
information
4.4.2 - There are established systems and procedures for maintaining and utilizing physical,
academic and support facilities – classrooms, laboratory, library, sports complex, computers, etc.
VNR VJIET Procedure Manual – “Standard Operating Procedures (SOP)
Manual” comprises the procedures formaintaining and utilizing
physical, academic and support facilities. The manual provides
guidance for procurement and maintenance of infrastructure
facilities. The institution's academic, research, and
administrative infrastructure is maintained up to date in
accordance with SOP manual. The SOP manualis updated on a regular
basis which includes the following:
Page 43/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
SOP for maintenance of Classrooms, Seminar halls,
Auditorium,
SOP for maintenance of Laboratories, Library.
SOP for maintenance of Computers and Networking
SOP for Sports facilities
SOP for Civil maintenance
SOP for Mechanical maintenance
SOP for Electrical equipment maintenance
SOP for EPABX and telephones
SOP for Stock verification
The SOP manual for maintaining and utilizing physical, academic
and support facilities is made available on the website.
All the classrooms and seminar halls in the institution are ICT
enabled. The devices are maintained on a regular basis. The
exclusive personnel are recruited to constantly monitor and keep
up the usage of the systems. Additional ICT equipment is procured
and kept ready for the replacement while the damaged one is sent
for repair. The new requirements for classrooms and ICT facilities
are identified before the start of academic session.
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
information https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/
STUDENT SUPPORT AND PROGRESSION
5.1 - Student Support
5.1.1 - Number of students benefitted by scholarships and freeships provided by the
Government during the year
3601
File Description Documents
Upload self-attested letters with View File
the list of students receiving
scholarships
Upload any additional View File
information
5.1.2 - Number of students benefitted by scholarships and freeships provided by the
Page 44/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
institution and non-government agencies during the year
408
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Institutional data in prescribed View File
format
5.1.3 - The following Capacity Development A. All of the above
and Skill Enhancement activities are
organised for improving students’
capabilities Soft Skills Language and
Communication Skills Life Skills (Yoga,
Physical fitness, Health and Hygiene)
Awareness of Trends in Technology
File Description Documents
Link to Institutional website
https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/
Details of capability View File
development and schemes
Any additional information View File
5.1.4 - Number of students benefitted from guidance/coaching for competitive examinations
and career counselling offered by the institution during the year
1070
File Description Documents
Any additional information View File
Number of students benefited by View File
guidance for competitive
examinations and career
counseling during the year (Data
Template)
5.1.5 - The institution adopts the following A. All of the above
mechanism for redressal of students’
grievances, including sexual harassment and
ragging: Implementation of guidelines of
statutory/regulatory bodies Creating
awareness and implementation of policies
Page 45/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
with zero tolerance Mechanism for
submission of online/offline students’
grievances Timely redressal of grievances
through appropriate committees
File Description Documents
Minutes of the meetings of View File
students’ grievance redressal
committee, prevention of sexual
harassment committee and Anti-
ragging committee
Details of student grievances View File
including sexual harassment and
ragging cases
Upload any additional View File
information
5.2 - Student Progression
5.2.1 - Number of outgoing students who got placement during the year
1070
File Description Documents
Self-attested list of students View File
placed
Upload any additional No File Uploaded
information
5.2.2 - Number of outgoing students progressing to higher education
81
File Description Documents
Upload supporting data for View File
students/alumni
Details of students who went for View File
higher education
Any additional information View File
5.2.3 - Number of students qualifying in state/ national/ international level examinations
during the year
5.2.3.1 - Number of students who qualified in state/ national/ international examinations (e.g.:
Page 46/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
IIT-JAM/NET/SET/JRF/ GATE /GMAT /CAT/ GRE/ TOEFL/Civil Services/State
government examinations) during the year
157
File Description Documents
Upload supporting data for View File
students/alumni
Any additional information View File
5.3 - Student Participation and Activities
5.3.1 - Number of awards/medals for outstanding performance in sports and/or cultural
activities at inter-university / state /national / international events (award for a team event
should be counted as one) during the year
256
File Description Documents
e-copies of award letters and View File
certificates
Any additional information No File Uploaded
5.3.2 - Presence of an active Student Council and representation of students in academic and
administrative bodies/committees of the institution
VNRVJIET keeps students as the fulcrum for the design of policies,
programmes, and procedures of the institution. The programmes are
student-centric and are arranged by the students and for the
students through the student representatives. An active Student
Council of VNRVJIET plans for the various activities of the
institute and student participation in various committees/ bodies
add flavour to the decisions taken by the institute for the
welfare of the students.
VNRVJIET has various student chapters of prominent national and
international professional societiessuch as ACM, ASME, CSI,
Diurnalis, GSDC, ICI, IEEE, IEI, IGBC, ISOI, ISTE, IETE, IUCEE,
Kritomedh, SAE, Turing Hut, VSI and student clubs namely
CANDLEVES, Creative Arts, Crescendo, Dramatrix, Electoral Literacy
Club (ELC), Livewire, Nrithya Tarang, Scintillate, Social Media,
Stentorian, Vignana Jyothi Sahithi Vanam, VJ Theatro promoting
curricular, co-curricular, and extra-curricular activities to
bring out the innate talents of the students. Students, under the
guidance of faculty coordinators, manage these Student Chapters
and Clubs and contribute to vibrant student life inside the
Page 47/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
campus.
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
information https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/student-council/
5.3.3 - Number of sports and cultural events / competitions organised by the institution
36
File Description Documents
Report of the event View File
List of sports and cultural events View File
/ competitions organised per
year
Upload any additional View File
information
5.4 - Alumni Engagement
5.4.1 - The Alumni Association and its Chapters (registered and functional) contribute significantly
to the development of the institution through financial and other support services
VNRVJIET Alumni Association is a non-profit organization of former
students of VNRVJIET.VNR VJIET Alumni Association is a registered
body consisting of a Coordination Committee, Executive Committee
and student coordination committee to engage, execute and enhance
various activities of the Association.18,477 alumni are connected
to the alma mater, faculty and students through this exclusive
portal www.vnralums.com. VNRVJIET Alumni Association provides a
focal point of contact among alumni to interact and network with
each other as well as with the alma mater. The alumni association
of the institute is the conglomeration of leaders, entrepreneurs,
social entrepreneurs, professionals and bureaucrats catering to
the society in various capacities. The Alumni are a part and
parcel of the various college activities. Darpan Id:
TS/2023/0368207
Alumni association contributions:
1. No of Guest lectures conducted: 25
2. No of placement Training sessions: 56
Page 48/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
3. No of Alumni on Portal:18,477
4. No of Alumni on College LinkedIn page 16,835
5. Exclusive Alumni portal: www.vnralums.com
Initiatives
LinkedIn page for the college surpassed 21,800 followers.
Alumni Mentoring
Career Vison Approach
Alumni Guidance for Placements
Alumni Guest Lecture
Entrepreneurial Talks
Yugma 2k23- Alumni Homecoming Day
Alumni Newsletter
Distinguished Alumni Awards
Business Wizards of VNRVJIET (Book of Entrepreneurs)
Alumni Chapters.
Chennai
Hyderabad
Bangalore
USA
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
Information https://www.vnralums.com
5.4.2 - Alumni’s financial contribution D. 2 Lakhs - 5 Lakhs
during the year
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
GOVERNANCE, LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT
6.1 - Institutional Vision and Leadership
6.1.1 - The governance of the institution is reflective of an effective leadership in tune with the
vision and mission of the Institution
Page 49/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
The Institute’s focus and core ideology is reflected in its
Vision, Mission, and Quality Policy as shown below:
Vision: Global Standards, Value-based Education,
Interdisciplinary Research, and Sustainable Development
Mission: To achieve the following traits among students
through modern pedagogy: technical competence, social
responsibility, future-readiness, learning through
innovative and collaborative research of global standards,
managerial and entrepreneurial skills.
Quality Policy: Updated domain knowledge, hands-on
experience, continuous improvement, global standards.
Details are presented in additional information
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
Information https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/
6.1.2 - Effective leadership is reflected in various institutional practices such as decentralization
and participative management
Decentralization and Participative management:
The institution has decentralized and transparent mechanism in
management, administration, financial and academic affairs. This
mechanism is delegating appropriate responsibilities from the top
level management to low level and allows the top management to
focus on policy making and major decisions. The Governing council
is the highest decision-making body which formulates/ amends rules
and regulations, delegates powers and responsibilities to various
Committees, Principal, Heads of the Departments (HoDs), Heads of
the Sections.
The details are uploaded in Additional information.
Page 50/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Documents
Upload strategic plan and View File
deployment documents on the
website
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
Information https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/organogram/
6.2 - Strategy Development and Deployment
6.2.1 - The institutional Strategic/ Perspective plan has been clearly articulated and implemented
The institution Strategic plan is articulated and kept available
on the public domain. The main objectives of
VNRVJIET Strategic plan are:
1. Achieving Academic excellence by curriculum orientation towards
advanced frontiers of knowledge and fostering experiential
learning through ICT
2. Exploration of Knowledge through Innovation and Research
providing inclusiveness to societal needs
3. Exponent for Development of a Rounded Personality with Global
Vision & Social responsibility
4. Relentlessly pursue institutional effectiveness through quality
assurance systems
File Description Documents
Strategic Plan and deployment View File
documents on the website
Paste link for additional
information Nil
Upload any additional View File
information
6.2.2 - The functioning of the various institutional bodies is effective and efficient as visible from
the policies, administrative set-up, appointment and service rules, procedures, etc.
The organization has a well-structured administrative setup with
Governing Council as the highest decision-making body and 36 other
Page 51/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
functional bodies and committees. The administrative setup is
provided in the organogram in the link to organogram of the
Institution webpage. The functions of various bodies are given in
the link for additional information. Service rules, Procedures,
Recruitment and Promotional Policies: The Institute has a set of
well-established rules, policies and regulations within the frame
work of AICTE, State Govt. and the affiliating university, which
are approved by the Governing Council of the Institute. The rules
and regulations of the institute were first published in Nov 1997
and are revised periodically. The following documents are
published and are made available in the institute library and in
all departments to create awareness among the employees and
students.
The same is also available in the college website –
www.vnrvjiet.ac.in.
File Description Documents
Paste link to Organogram on the
institution webpage https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/organogram/
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
Information https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/Adminst
rative%20Manual.pdf
6.2.3 - Implementation of e-governance in A. All of the above
areas of operation: Administration Finance
and Accounts Student Admission and
Support Examination
File Description Documents
ERP (Enterprise Resource View File
Planning) Documen
Screen shots of user interfaces View File
Details of implementation of e- View File
governance in areas of operation
Any additional information View File
6.3 - Faculty Empowerment Strategies
6.3.1 - The institution has effective welfare measures for teaching and non-teaching staff and
avenues for their career development/ progression
Page 52/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
1. Implementation of Norms: As per the norms of AICTE, the 7th
CPC has been implemented for teaching staff, and the 11th
PRC has been implemented for non-teaching staff.
2. Incentives are provided for Ph.D. Completed Faculty.
3. Coverage under Employee Benefits: Employees are provided
coverage under EPF, Gratuity, and Medical Insurance schemes.
4. Leave Sanctions: Study, Maternity, Paternity and Medical
leaves are sanctioned for the required staff.
5. Loans for Vehicle and Laptops: Both teaching and non-
teaching faculty have access to avail loans for vehicles and
laptops.
6. Financial Support:The institute provides registration fees,
dearness allowance, and travel grants to support faculty
attending conferences and workshops.
7. Incentives: Incentives are provided to faculty members for
their outstanding research work, publications, and patents.
Lucrative consultancy policy is in place with 70% - 80%
share to the faculty.
8. Seed Fund: Seed fund is granted to the faculty to encourage
preliminary/initial research that leads to major research
proposals.
9. Career development: Faculty and staff are encouraged to
pursue certification/PG diploma programs in emerging areas
from reputed institutions in India and abroad.
10. Faculty are permitted and encouraged to pursue Ph.D. under
QIP programs in premier institutions.
11. Non-Teaching staff are encouraged to enhance their
qualifications.
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
information Nil
6.3.2 - Number of teachers provided with financial support to attend conferences / workshops
and towards payment of membership fee of professional bodies during the year
92
Page 53/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Details of teachers provided View File
with financial support to attend
conference, workshops etc
during the year (Data Template)
6.3.3 - Number of professional development / administrative training programmes organized
by the Institution for its teaching and non-teaching staff during the year
61
File Description Documents
Reports of the Human Resource View File
Development Centres (UGC
HRDC/ASC or other relevant
centres)
Upload any additional View File
information
6.3.4 - Number of teachers who have undergone online/ face-to-face Faculty Development
Programmes during the year: (Professional Development Programmes, Orientation /
Induction Programmes, Refresher Courses, Short-Term Course, etc.)
235
File Description Documents
Summary of the IQAC report View File
Reports of the Human Resource View File
Development Centres (UGC
ASC or other relevant centers)
Upload any additional No File Uploaded
information
6.4 - Financial Management and Resource Mobilization
6.4.1 - Institution conducts internal and external financial audits regularly
Financial planning ensures consistency of goals, aligning the
growth objectives of the institute with its financial
requirements. It also supports the strategic growth of the
organization. To Begin with the End in Mind, the institute plans
and accumulates the right amount of funds by gathering the inputs
and requirements from its associated departments.
Page 54/66 13-11-2024 09:59:13
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
• Financial Planning is exercised well in advance for the
organization and efficient Budgeting & Controlled mechanism is
done by involving the various Academic Departments and
Administrative Sections of the Institute.
• Financial planning and review is done in periodic intervals
through statutory - Finance Committee headed by Principal, Dean-
Administration, Management representative, Faculty and Account
Personnel as members.
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
information https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/audited-statements/
6.4.2 - Funds / Grants received from non-government bodies, individuals, and philanthropists
during the year (not covered in Criterion III and V) (INR in lakhs)
0
File Description Documents
Annual statements of accounts No File Uploaded
Details of funds / grants View File
received from non-government
bodies, individuals,
philanthropists during the year
Any additional information No File Uploaded
6.4.3 - Institutional strategies for mobilisation of funds and the optimal utilisation of resources
Mobilization of Funds: The major source of revenue for the college
is the Annualfee collected from students. The fee is collected as
perthe fee & guidelines fixed by the State fee
regulatoryauthority. The fee is converted into fixed deposits
andwithdrawn periodically as per the requirements of theinstitute.
The fixed deposits are withdrawn and used forthe expenditure of
the college. The interest earned onthese fixed deposits is also
being utilized for the needs of the institution.Mobilization of
funds is also done through sponsoredprojects from DST, FIST, DRDO,
AICTE, UGC, Industrysponsored projects by the faculty. Faculty
will purchasethe equipment, meets expenditure for travel and
stipendfor research associates. Funds are also mobilized
throughconsultancy and philanthropic contribution.
Page 55/66 13-11-2024 09:59:14
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
Information https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/audited-statements/
6.5 - Internal Quality Assurance System
6.5.1 - Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) has contributed significantly for institutionalizing
quality assurance strategies and processes visible in terms of incremental improvements made
during the preceding year with regard to quality (in case of the First Cycle): Incremental
improvements made during the preceding year with regard to quality and post-accreditation quality
initiatives (Second and subsequent cycles)
Our institute has launched a comprehensive Faculty Professional
Growth Plan, meticulously designed to bolster both departmental
and institutional development.This initiative encompasses a broad
spectrum of activities aimed at fostering growth and excellence
among our faculty members.Research and Consultancy form another
critical component of the growth plan. Faculty members are
encouraged to pursue innovative research projects, fostering a
culture of intellectual curiosity and discovery. Through
consultancy, they share their expertise with industry partners,
bridging the gap between academia and real-world applications.
This symbiotic relationship not only enriches the academic
experience but also offers practical solutions to contemporary
challenges.
Teaching and Learning Activities are meticulously planned to
ensure progressive advancement. Faculty members are involved in
ongoing professional development, attending workshops, and
implementing cutting-edge pedagogical methods. These activities
are aimed at refining their teaching strategies, ensuring that
students receive the highest quality education.
The entire Faculty Professional Growth Plan is meticulously
documented and maintained in the form of a comprehensive book.
This record not only tracks progress but also serves as a valuable
resource for continuous reflection and improvement. It stands as a
testament to our commitment to excellence and the professional
growth of our faculty.
Page 56/66 13-11-2024 09:59:14
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
information Nil
6.5.2 - The institution reviews its teaching-learning process, structures and methodologies of
operation and learning outcomes at periodic intervals through its IQAC as per norms
1. Academic Audit is a regular practice in the Institutionwhich
ensures the quality of each Program. IQAC of theinstitution
conducts rigorous academic audit every year toenhance the quality
of department.Departments are Audited by IQAC using following
parametersDelivery methodology adopted by the departmentsICT
utilizationMechanism to identify weak studentsEffectiveness of
remedial classesSelf-learning resourcesFaculty immense
contribution in bringing out novelty inteaching learning process
and extensive academic &sponsored research encouraged by the state-
of-artlaboratory facilities.Faculty are encouraged to improve
their professionalexpertise by attending conferences, workshops,
webinars,seminars, and symposiums focussed on enlightening
themabout the latest developments in their field of
expertise.Faculty are motivated to update their knowledge
usingdifferent domains such as NPTEL, MOOCs, Coursera, Edx,etc.
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
information https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/iqac/
6.5.3 - Quality assurance initiatives of the A. Any 4 or all of the above
institution include Regular meeting of the
IQAC Feedback collected, analysed and used
for improvement of the institution
Collaborative quality initiatives with other
institution(s) Participation in NIRF Any
other quality audit recognized by state,
national or international agencies (such as
ISO Certification)
Page 57/66 13-11-2024 09:59:14
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Documents
Paste the web link of annual
reports of the Institution https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/iqac/
Upload e-copies of View File
accreditations and certification
Upload details of quality View File
assurance initiatives of the
institution
Upload any additional View File
information
INSTITUTIONAL VALUES AND BEST PRACTICES
7.1 - Institutional Values and Social Responsibilities
7.1.1 - Measures initiated by the Institution for the promotion of gender equity during the year
VNRVJIET offers a course on Gender Sensitization to all
B.Techstudents at II/III yr level. This course aims at
bringingawareness regarding gender equity among the young
students. Aspart of this course students participate in a host of
activitieslike role plays, group discussions, poster
making/sloganwriting, power point presentations etc. students also
design and perform activities like street plays, debate
competitions, essaywriting competition, etc. Annual gender
sensitization actionplan(s) The annual gender sensitization plan
includes the courseconducted for all B.Tech students at II/III
year level. Specialfacilities provided for Women :
a) Safety and Security b) Counselling c) Common Rooms d) Day-care
Centre
File Description Documents
Upload any additional View File
information
Paste link for additional
Information Nil
7.1.2 - The Institution has facilities for A. Any 4 or All of the above
alternate sources of energy and energy
conservation: Solar energy Biogas
plant Wheeling to the Grid Sensor-based
energy conservation Use of LED bulbs/
power-efficient equipment
Page 58/66 13-11-2024 09:59:14
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Documents
Geotagged Photographs View File
Any other relevant information No File Uploaded
7.1.3 - Describe the facilities in the institution for the management of the following types of
degradable and non-degradable waste (within a maximum of 200 words)
Solid Waste Management: Inspired by Swatch Bharat Mission, Twin-
Bin system is being used in the Institute to segregate recyclable
and biodegradable waste. Professional contractors collect the
recyclable waste and biodegradable waste. Liquid Waste Management:
Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) of 150KL/day capacity is in use both
in the Institution campus and Hostel. The treated water is used
for flushing and gardening purpose. Eco-friendly floor cleaners
are used, and the wastewater is checked on a monthly basis.
Disposal is done after treatment if necessary. E-Waste Management:
E-waste management bins are provided across the campus to collect
the E-waste across all departments. The collected material is
disposed for recycling through authorized vendors. All Computers,
batteries and electronic machinery is purchased under Buy-Back
agreement. Hazardous chemicals and radioactive waste management:
Liquid chemicals from Chemistry and Environment Engineering Lab
are disposed as per MSDS norms. Waste Recycling System:
File Description Documents
Relevant documents like View File
agreements/MoUs with
Government and other approved
agencies
Geotagged photographs of the View File
facilities
Any other relevant information No File Uploaded
7.1.4 - Water conservation facilities available A. Any 4 or all of the above
in the Institution: Rain water harvesting
Bore well /Open well recharge Construction
of tanks and bunds Waste water recycling
Maintenance of water bodies and distribution
system in the campus
Page 59/66 13-11-2024 09:59:14
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Documents
Geotagged photographs / videos View File
of the facilities
Any other relevant information No File Uploaded
7.1.5 - Green campus initiatives include
7.1.5.1 - The institutional initiatives for A. Any 4 or All of the above
greening the campus are as follows:
1.Restricted entry of automobiles
2.Use of bicycles/ Battery-powered
vehicles
3.Pedestrian-friendly pathways
4.Ban on use of plastic
5.Landscaping
File Description Documents
Geotagged photos / videos of View File
the facilities
Various policy documents / View File
decisions circulated for
implementation
Any other relevant documents View File
7.1.6 - Quality audits on environment and energy undertaken by the institution
7.1.6.1 - The institution’s initiatives to A. Any 4 or all of the above
preserve and improve the environment and
harness energy are confirmed through the
following:
1. Green audit
2. Energy audit
3.Environment audit
4.Clean and green campus
recognitions/awards
5.Beyond the campus environmental
promotional activities
Page 60/66 13-11-2024 09:59:14
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Documents
Reports on environment and View File
energy audits submitted by the
auditing agency
Certification by the auditing View File
agency
Certificates of the awards No File Uploaded
received
Any other relevant information No File Uploaded
7.1.7 - The Institution has a disabled-friendly A. Any 4 or all of the above
and barrier-free environment: Ramps/lifts
for easy access to classrooms and centres
Disabled-friendly washrooms Signage
including tactile path lights, display boards
and signposts Assistive technology and
facilities for persons with disabilities:
accessible website, screen-reading software,
mechanized equipment, etc. Provision for
enquiry and information: Human assistance,
reader, scribe, soft copies of reading
materials, screen reading, etc.
File Description Documents
Geotagged photographs / videos View File
of facilities
Policy documents and brochures View File
on the support to be provided
Details of the software procured View File
for providing assistance
Any other relevant information No File Uploaded
7.1.8 - Describe the Institutional efforts/initiatives in providing an inclusive environment i.e.
tolerance and harmony towards cultural, regional, linguistic, communal, socio-economic and other
diversities (within a maximum of 200 words).
Institution has adopted 4 villages under Unnat Bharat
Abhiyan and conducted activities with students and faculty
for environment, health and socio economic development of
women children and students.
Every academic year VNRSF volunteers recycle the paper waste
with the help of ITC. The books generated or distributed to
Page 61/66 13-11-2024 09:59:14
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
the needy students from economically and socially backward
backgrounds.
All the regional and cultural festivals like Sankranti,
Bathukamma, Durga puja Holi Christmas Ganesh Chaturthi, Sri
Rama Navami are celebrated among the students and staff.
Separate prayer rooms are made available for namaz in the
campus.
Sahithi vannam club spreads the worlds of equality on the
basis of language through various student activities and
competitions conducted in different languages.
Technical festival - Convergence, Cultural Festival -
Sintillashunz, Sports Festival creates a platforms for
diversified participation with out bareer for cultural,
regional, linguistic, communal, socio-economic
File Description Documents
Supporting documents on the View File
information provided (as
reflected in the administrative
and academic activities of the
Institution)
7.1.9 - Sensitization of students and employees of the institution to constitutional obligations:
values, rights, duties and responsibilities of citizens:
The institution has a mission to produce technically competent and
socially responsible engineers’ managers and entrepreneurs who
will be the future ready for our country. To sensitise the
students and the faculty the institution to its constitutional
obligations various continuous activities are organised as a part
of our 18 months calendar.
All the national festivals are conducted in the spirit of values,
rights and duties. The Independence Day celebrations starts with
the salute parade event the girl student topper will hoist the
Indian flag. The Republic day celebrations are enriched with “Know
your rights and follow your duties a VNRSF initiative. Group
discussion, debates and motive speeches on being responsible
citizens are conducted during these activities.
A journey for the right future which demonstrates RTI and RTS acts
or conducted frequently by the VNRSF. as the special duty and
responsibility towards the society the student clubs organises
antidrug campaigns and traffic awareness weeks. world environment
day as a duty towards earth is celebrated and plants are
distributed to the stakeholders for planting at their nearby
Page 62/66 13-11-2024 09:59:14
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
places.
With true spirit the National youth festival, Babasaheb Ambedkar
Jayanti, National Flag Day Engineers Day are conducted by student
clubs.
File Description Documents
Details of activities that View File
inculcate values necessary to
transform students into
responsible citizens
Any other relevant information No File Uploaded
7.1.10 - The institution has a prescribed code A. All of the above
of conduct for students, teachers,
administrators and other staff and conducts
periodic sensitization programmes in this
regard: The Code of Conduct is displayed on
the website There is a committee to monitor
adherence to the Code of Conduct Institution
organizes professional ethics programmes for
students, teachers, administrators and other
staff Annual awareness programmes on the
Code of Conduct are organized
File Description Documents
Code of Ethics - policy View File
document
Details of the monitoring View File
committee composition and
minutes of the committee
meeting, number of programmes
organized, reports on the
various programmes, etc. in
support of the claims
Any other relevant information No File Uploaded
7.1.11 - Institution celebrates / organizes national and international commemorative days, events
and festivals
India is a land of multi-ethnicity where people of
differentlanguages and cultures live together with peace and
harmony.India is worldwide known for its cultural diversity
andcolourful festivals. The National festivals Gandhi Jayanti,
theIndependence Day and the Republic Day have a distinctive
Page 63/66 13-11-2024 09:59:14
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
qualitywhich sets them apart from other festivals. The
instituterecognizes and attests to the overriding importance of
these redletterdays. It steps up preparations to mark the
occasion,mobilizing all of its resources at each level.
File Description Documents
Annual report of the View File
celebrations and
commemorative events for
during the year
Geotagged photographs of some View File
of the events
Any other relevant information No File Uploaded
7.2 - Best Practices
7.2.1 - Provide the weblink on the Institutional website regarding the Best practices as per the
prescribed format of NAAC
Best Practice-1:Faculty Professional Growth Plan
1.Title of the Practice
Faculty Professional Growth Plan
2.Goal
Faculty will identify and plan achievable targets in their
profession for the next 2 terms.
Focus and work to achieve each target.
3.The Context
Faculty Growth Plan for VNR VJIET will emphasize career
development, research support, and continuous learning, aligning
with institutional goals and the evolving landscape of higher
education. This approach will capture Professional Development and
Continuous Learning, Research and Innovation Support, career
Progression and Leadership Development, Teaching Excellence and
Pedagogical Innovation, Global Exposure and Knowledge Sharing,
etc.
Best Practice-1:Industry-Linked Curriculum and Skill Development
Page 64/66 13-11-2024 09:59:14
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
1.Title of the Practice
Industry-Linked Curriculum and Skill Development
2.Goal
To bridge the gap between academic learning and industry
requirements, ensuring that students acquire the skills,
knowledge, and practical experience necessary for successful
careers.
3.The Context
The industry-Linked Curriculum and Skill Development initiative is
a response to the growing need for alignment between higher
education and the rapidly evolving demands of industry. As
technology and global market dynamics reshape the job landscape,
institutions must ensure that their graduates possess the skills,
knowledge, and adaptability necessary to thrive in competitive and
often unpredictable environments.
File Description Documents
Best practices in the
Institutional website https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/iqac/
Any other relevant information
Nil
7.3 - Institutional Distinctiveness
7.3.1 - Highlight the performance of the institution in an area distinct to its priority and thrust
(within a maximum of 200 words)
"Building Balanced Leaders: VNR VJIET’s Commitment to Emotional,
Professional, and Social Growth"
In an ever-evolving academic landscape, VNR VJIET stands out with
its professional society chapters and student clubs, making a
beacon of holistic development. Clubs like Art of Living ( AoL),
IUCEE ( Indo Universal Collaboration for Engineering Education) ,
and Wall of Kindness are introduced in 2022-23 along with existing
active other clubs. The "Art of Living" club promotes happiness,
mental well-being and stress management through various events,
viz., workshops and meditation sessions, integrating a sense of
calm and balance within the student community. Meanwhile, the
Page 65/66 13-11-2024 09:59:14
Annual Quality Assurance Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
IUCEE (Indo Universal Collaboration for Engineering Education)
student chapter with an objective to empower and enrich students
with the necessary tools to develop and grow as professionals and
leaders. It enables programs that enhance the holistic development
and experiences. It plugs the students into the IUCEE Foundation
eco-system to learn and share with association and activities. The
Wall of Kindness is a heartwarming initiative that underscores the
values of empathy and social responsibility. This unique club
activity encourages students to donate items for those in need,
fostering a culture of generosity and community support. These
clubs are not just extracurriculars—they are integral to VNR
VJIET’s identity, empowering students with skills that transcend
academic knowledge. These experiences shape individuals who are
not only career-ready but also emotionally intelligent and
socially conscious.
File Description Documents
Appropriate link in the
institutional website https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/iqac/
Any other relevant information View File
7.3.2 - Plan of action for the next academic year
1. Strengthening the Collaborative activities for the enhancement
of Research and Innovation
2. Strengthening Research Interest Groups
3. Revision of Faculty research incentives to encourage quality of
research
Page 66/66 13-11-2024 09:59:14
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org)
