SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/A19/AE2.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY HYDERABAD
B.TECH. II YEAR
(AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING)
III SEMESTER A19
Contact
Course Code Title of the Course L T P/D Hours/ Credits
Week
Partial Differential Equations and Numerical
A19BS1MT10 3 0 0 3 3
Methods
A19PC1ME08 Mechanics of Solids 3 0 0 3 3
A19PC1ME04 Thermodynamics 3 1 0 4 4
A19PC1ME01 Metallurgy and Materials Engineering 3 0 0 3 3
A19PC1AE01 Automotive Chassis 3 0 0 3 3
A19PC2AE01 Automotive Chassis Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
A19PC2AE02 Metallurgy and Mechanics of Solids Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
A19PC2IT02 Python Programming Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
Total 15 1 6 22 19
IV SEMESTER A19
Contact
Course Code Title of the Course L T P/D Hours/ Credits
Week
A19PC1ME03 Fluid Mechanics and Machinery 3 0 0 3 3
A19PC1AE02 Applied Thermodynamics 3 1 0 4 4
A19PC1AE03 Theory of Machines 3 1 0 4 4
A19PC1AE04 Automotive Engines 3 0 0 3 3
A19PC1AE05 Manufacturing Technology 3 0 0 3 3
A19PC2ME03 Fluid Mechanics and Machinery Laboratory 0 0 3 3 1.5
A19PC2AE03 Theory of Machines Laboratory 0 0 3 3 1.5
A19PC2AE04 Automotive Engines Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
Total 15 2 8 25 21
A19MN6HS02 Environmental Science 2 0 0 2 0
L – Lecture T – Tutorial P – Practical D – Drawing
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19BS1MT10) PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS AND NUMERICAL METHODS
(Common to ME and AE)
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Differentiation, Integration
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To evaluate Fourier coefficients
• To use method of separation of variables to solve second order Partial Differential
Equations
• To utilize numerical methods to solve non-linear systems
• To know the various methods of interpolation and its application
• To learn concepts of numerical differentiation and integration
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Determine the Fourier series for periodic functions
CO-2: Solve the second order linear partial differential equations
CO-3: Apply numerical methods to find a root of algebraic and transcendental
equations
CO-4: Find the interpolate value from the given set of data points
CO-5: Evaluate problems based on numerical differentiation, integration and
numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations
UNIT – I:
Fourier Series: Introduction of Fourier Series, determination of Fourier coefficients,
Fourier series in an arbitrary interval, Fourier series for even and odd functions, Half
range sine and cosine series
UNIT – II:
Partial Differential Equations of Second Order: Classifications of Second Order Partial
differential Equations, Method of separation of variables, Applications: Problems of
vibrating string- wave equation, Problems of one-dimensional heat equation,
Problems of steady state two dimensional heat flow-Laplace equation.
UNIT – III:
Solutions of Non-linear Systems: Introduction; Mathematical preliminaries; Solution of
algebraic and transcendental equations–bisection method, the method of false
position, Fixed point iterative method, Newton - Raphson method, and their order of
convergence.
UNIT – IV:
Interpolation: Introduction; Errors in polynomial interpolation; Finite differences;
Forward differences; Backward differences; Central differences; Symbolic relations
and separation of symbols; Differences of a polynomial; Newton’s formulae for
interpolation; Central difference interpolation formulae; Gauss’s central difference
formulae and Lagrange’s interpolation formulae.
UNIT – V:
Numerical Differentiation and Integration: Numerical differentiation based on
interpolation, Numerical integration: Trapezoidal rule, Simpson’s 1/3 rule, and
Simpson’s 3/8 rule, Gaussian quadrature 2 & 3-point formulae.
UNIT – VI:
Numerical Solutions of Ordinary Differential Equations: Solution of initial value
problems by Taylor’s series - Picard’s method of successive approximations, Euler’s
method, Modified Euler’s method and Runge - Kutta methods.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics, B. V. Ramana, McGraw-Hill
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics, Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition, John Wiley
3. Introductory Methods of Numerical Analysis, S. S. Sastry, PHI learning Pvt. Ltd.
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics, Peter ‘O’ Neil, Cengage Learning
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics, R. K. Jain and S. R. K. Iyengar, Narosa
Publication
3. Higher Engineering Mathematics, B. S. Grewal, 36th Edition, Khanna Publishers,
2010
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1ME08) MECHANICS OF SOLIDS
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Mathematics, Physics and Engineering Mechanics
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To list and define the Material properties and show the relationships between
them
• To describe principles of Mechanics, Stress and Strain
• To demonstrate thoroughly the concepts of principal stresses applied to solid
structural members and Mohr’s circle diagram
• To analyse various types of mechanical engineering problems concern to
bending of beams, torsion of shafts etc.
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Show basic stress strain equations with appropriate assumptions
CO-2: Interpret model and analyze solid mechanics problems on bars, beams and
shafts
CO-3: Apply the concepts of principal stresses in real life design issues
CO-4: Analyse and develop beams, shafts for various applications
UNIT – I:
Tension, Compression, and Shear: Introduction; Normal Stress and Strain; Stress-strain
diagrams; Elasticity and plasticity; Linear elasticity and Hooke’s law; Allowable stress
and allowable loads.
Axially Loaded Members: Introduction; Deflections of axially loaded members; Strain
energy; Dynamic loading.
Thermal Stresses
UNIT – II:
Shear Force and Bending Moment Diagrams: Types of beams; Types of loading;
Shear force and bending moment; Relationship between load, shear force and
bending moment; Shear force and bending moment diagrams.
UNIT – III:
Area Moment of Inertia of Composite Sections:
Stresses in Beams: Introduction; Normal strains in beams; Normal stresses in beams;
Cross-sectional shapes of beams-C, angular and semicircle structures; Shear stresses
in rectangular beams; Shear stress in webs of beams with flanges; Shear stress in
circular beams (solid and hollow sections); Concept of shear center and shear flow.
UNIT – IV:
Analysis of Stress and Strain: Introduction; Plane stress; Principal stresses and
maximum shear stresses; Mohr’s circle for plane stress; Hooke’s law for plane stress;
Spherical and cylindrical pressure vessels (biaxial stress; Hoop and longitudinal
stresses); Combined loadings (plane stress); Principal stresses in beams.
UNIT – V:
Deflections of Beams: Introduction; Differential equations of the deflection curve;
Deflections by integration of the bending moment equation; Deflections by
integration of the shear-force and load equations; Macaulay’s method; Moment
area method; Method of superposition.
UNIT – VI:
Columns: Short columns, Euler’s theory for axially loaded elastic long columns,
Effective length, Limitations of Euler’s Theory, Rankine’s formula
Torsion: Introduction; Torsion of circular bars; Non uniform torsion; Pure shear;
Relationship between modulus of elasticity E and G; Transmission of power by
circular shafts.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Mechanics of Materials (SI units), Gere J. M., Goodno B. J., Cengage Learning,
2012
2. Strength of Materials, S. S. Rattan, 2nd Edition, Tata McGraw-Hill Education, 2011
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Mechanics of Solids, Popov E. P., Prentice Hall of India Private
Limited, 2004
2. Mechanics of Materials, Beer F. P., Johnson E. R., and DeWolf J. T., Tata McGraw-
Hill, 2004
3. Strength of Materials, Schaum’s Series, 6th Edition, McGraw-Hill Book Company
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(A19PC1ME04) THERMODYNAMICS
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Physics, Mathematics
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To apply the basic concepts of thermodynamics, heat and work done on the
system
• To apply the basic concepts of Thermodynamic Laws for various thermodynamic
systems
• To evaluate the properties of pure substance and to analyse the concept of
irreversibility and availability
• To apply the basic concept of power cycles for External combustion engines and
internal combustion engines
• To evaluate the behaviour of ideal gas mixtures and thermodynamic properties
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: To apply the basic concepts of thermodynamics, heat and work done on the
system.
CO-2: To apply the basic concepts of thermodynamic laws for various
thermodynamic systems
CO-3: To evaluate the properties of pure substance and analyse the concept of
irreversibility and availability
CO-4: To apply the basic concept of power cycles for external combustion engines
and internal combustion engines
CO-5: To evaluate the behaviour of ideal gas mixtures and thermodynamic
properties
UNIT – I:
Concepts and Definitions: Thermodynamic system and control volume; Macroscopic
versus microscopic point of view; Properties and state of a substance; Processes and
cycles, Energy, Specific volume and density, Equality of temperature; The Zeroth law
of thermodynamics; Temperature scales.
Work and Heat: Definition of work; Units for work; Work done at the moving boundary
of a simple compressible system; Other systems that involve work; Definition of heat;
Heat transfer modes; Comparison of heat and work.
UNIT – II:
The First Law of Thermodynamics: The first law of thermodynamics for a control mass
undergoing a cycle; The first law of thermodynamics for a change in state of a
control mass; Internal energy-a thermodynamic property; Problem analysis and
solution technique; Enthalpy; The constant-volume and constant-pressure specific
heats; The internal energy, enthalpy, and specific heat of ideal gases; The first law as
a rate equation.
First Law Analysis for a Control Volume: Conversion of mass and the control volume,
the first law of thermodynamics for a control volume, The steady-state process;
Examples of steady-state processes.
UNIT – III:
The Second Law of Thermodynamics: Heat engines and refrigerators; The second law
of thermodynamics; The reversible process; Factors that render processes irreversible;
The Carnot cycle; Two propositions regarding the efficiency of a Carnot cycle; The
thermodynamic temperature scale; The ideal-gas temperature scale; Ideal versus
real machines.
Entropy for a Control Mass: The inequality of Clausius; Entropy — a property of a
system; The entropy of a pure substance; Entropy change in reversible processes;
The thermodynamic property relation; Entropy change of an ideal gas; The
reversible polytropic process for an ideal gas; Entropy change of a control mass
during an irreversible process; Entropy generation; Principle of increase of entropy;
Entropy as a rate equation.
UNIT – IV :
Irreversibility and Availability: Available energy; Available energy Referred to a
cycle; Quality of energy; Maximum work in a reversible process; reversible work by
an open system; Exchanging heat only with the surroundings; Useful work; Dead
state; Availability; Availability in chemical reaction; Irreversibility and Gouy-stodola
Theorem; Availability or Exergy Balance; second law efficiency;
Properties of a Pure Substance: The pure substance; Vapor- liquid- solid- phase
equilibrium in a pure substance; Independent properties of a pure substance; Steam
Tables; Thermodynamic surfaces; The compressibility factor; Equations of state.
UNIT – V:
Power Cycles: Introduction to power systems; The Rankine cycle; Effect of pressure
and temperature on the Rankine cycle; Air-standard power cycles; Basic Brayton
cycle; The air-standard cycle for jet propulsion; Reciprocating engine power cycles;
The Otto cycle; The Diesel cycle; The Dual cycle, The Stirling cycle; The Atkinson and
Miller cycles.
UNIT – VI:
Properties of Gases and Gas Mixtures: Avogadro’s Law; Ideal Gas; Equation of State;
Law of Corresponding; Properties of Mixture of Gases-Dalton’s Law of Partial
Pressures; Internal Energy, Enthalpy, and Specific Heats of Gas Mixtures; Entropy of
Gas Mixtures; Gibbs Function of a Mixture of Inert ideal Gas; Thermodynamic
Property Relations: Mathematical relations for a homogeneous phase; The Maxwell
relations; Thermodynamic relations involving enthalpy, internal energy,
and entropy; The Clapeyron equation; Joule-Thompson coefficient.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Thermodynamics, P. K. Nag, McGraw Hill
2. Fundamentals of Thermodynamics, C. Borgnakke, R. E. Sonntag, and G. J. Van
Wylen, John Wiley
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Thermodynamics, Burgadt, Harper & Row Publication
2. Thermodynamics - An Engineering Approach, Yunus Cengel and Boles, Tata
McGraw Hill
3. Engineering Thermodynamics, P. Chattopadhyay, Oxford University Press
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1ME01) METALLURGY AND MATERIALS ENGINEERING
(Common to ME and AE)
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Physics and Chemistry
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To understand the microstructures of different types of metal and alloys –cast
iron, steels, non-ferrous metal and alloys
• To understand the heat treatment principles-annealing, normalizing and
hardening
• To understand the different types of tools
• To understand the importance of titanium & its alloys
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Distinguish different types of metals, solid solutions, alloys compounds and
phases
CO-2: Design a heat treatment process to change the properties-hardness, ductility,
etc
CO-3: Analyze the characters and failure of metals and alloys
CO-4: Explain & justify the usage of composites in engineering field
UNIT – I:
Metal Structure and Crystallization: Introduction - atom binding, ionic bond, covalent
bond, metallic bond, and Vander Waals forces; Crystal imperfections.
Overview of Metal Structure and Crystallization.
Constitution of Alloys: Introduction; Classification of alloys or compounds; Pure metal;
Intermediate alloy phase or compound - intermetallic compounds or valency
compounds, interstitial compounds, and electron compounds; Solid solutions;
Substitution solid solution - factors that control the range of solubility in alloy system;
Interstitial solid solutions.
UNIT – II:
Phase Diagrams: Introduction; Coordinates of phase diagrams; Experimental
methods - construction of equilibrium diagrams by thermal analysis, metallographic
methods, and X-ray diffraction; Type-I-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid
and solid states; Chemical composition of phases; relative amounts of each phase;
Equilibrium cooling of a solid solution alloy; Diffusion; Nonequilibrium cooling;
Homogenization; Properties of solid-solution alloys; Variation of Type I; Type II-Two
metals completely soluble in the liquid state and completely insoluble in the solid
state; Type III-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid state but only partly soluble
in the solid state; Properties of eutectic alloy systems; Age hardening – solution
treatment, and aging process; Type IV-The congruent-melting intermediate phase;
Type V-The peritectic reaction; Type VI-Two liquids partly soluble in the liquid state:
the monotectic reaction; Type VII-two metals insoluble in the liquid and solid states;
Interrelation of basic types;
UNIT – III:
The Heat Treatment of Steel: Introduction; Full Annealing; Spheroidizing; Stress-relief
annealing; Process annealing; Normalizing; Hardening; The isothermal transformation
diagram; Cooling curves and I-T Diagram; Transformation on continuous cooling;
Position of the I-T curves, Hardening or austenitizing temperature, Mechanism of heat
removal during quenching - vapor-blanket cooling state (stage A), vapor transport
cooling stage (stage B), Liquid cooling stage (stage C); Quenching medium;
Temperature of quenching medium, Surface condition - methods to minimize the
formation of scale - copper plating, protective atmosphere, liquid-salt pots, and
cast-iron chips; Size and Mass, Hardenability; Use of Hardenability data; Tempering;
Austempering; Surface heat treatment or case hardening; Carburizing; Heat
treatment after carburizing; Cyaniding and Carbonitriding; Nitriding; Flame
hardening; Induction Hardening.
UNIT – IV:
Alloy Steels: Introduction; Purpose of alloying; Effect of alloying elements upon
Ferrite; Effect of alloying elements upon carbide; Influence of alloying elements on
the iron-iron carbide diagram; Effect of alloying elements in tampering; Classification
of steels - nickel steel, chromium steel, nickel-chromium steels, manganese steels,
molybdenum steels, tungsten steels, vanadium steels, silicon steels, stainless steels,
martensitic stainless steels, ferritic stainless steels, austenitic stainless steels,
precipitation-hardening stainless steels, maraging steels, and ausforming.
Tool Steels: Classification of tool steels; Selection of tool steels; Comparative
properties; Non-deforming properties; Depth of hardening; Toughness; Wear
resistance; Red-hardness; Machinability; Resistance to decarburization; Brand
names; Water-hardening tool steels (Group W); Shock resisting tool steels (Group S);
Cold-work tool steels; Hot-work tool steels (Group H); High speed tool steels; Mold
Steels (Group P); Special purpose tool steels; Heat treatment of tool steels; Overview
of tool failures;
Special cutting materials – satellites, cemented carbides, and ceramic tools.
UNIT – V:
Cast Iron: Introduction; Types of cast iron; White cast iron; Malleable cast iron;
Pearlitic malleable iron; Gray cast iron; Silicon in cast iron; Sulfur in cast iron;
Manganese in cast iron; Phosphorus in cast iron; Heat treatment of grey iron, Size
and distribution of graphite flakes; Mechanical properties and applications of grey
cast iron; Chilled cast iron; Nodular cast iron; Alloy cast irons.
Non-Ferrous Metals and Alloys: Introduction; Copper and its alloys - Copper, temper
designation of copper and copper alloys, and copper alloys; Aluminum and its
alloys - Aluminum, Alloy designation system, and temper designation; Titanium and
Titanium alloys.
UNIT – VI:
Composites: Introduction, classification of composites-Fibre reinforced composites,
Pertial reinforced composites, Dispersion strengthened metals, laminates; Advanced
Fibre reinforced composites –Metal matrix composites, Ceramic –matrix composites,
Carbon - Carbon composites, Hybrid composites; Fabrication of Fibre- reinforced
composites-Hand lay –up process, Filament winding process, Sheet- moulding
compound process, continuous pultrusion process, resin transfer moulding, vacuum-
bag moulding.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Introduction to Physical Metallurgy, Sidney H. Avner, McGraw Hill
2. Materials Science and Metallurgy, Kodgire, Everest
REFERENCES:
1. Essentials of Materials Science and Engineering, Donald R. Askeland and
Thomson
2. Materials Science and Engineering, William and Collister
3. Elements of Materials Science, V. Raghavan
4. Metallurgy and Material Science, Pakirappa
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1AE01) AUTOMOTIVE CHASSIS
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To illustrate the vehicle lay-out and body types
• To provide the working of transmission systems
• To learn the basic functionality of final drive, steering and suspension systems
• To present the construction and working of brake and wheel and tyre assembly
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Understand the vehicle lay-out and body types
CO-2: Comprehend the working of drive line systems
CO-3: Appreciate the basic functionality of final drive, steering and suspension
systems
CO-4: Describe the construction and working of brake and wheel and tyre assembly
UNIT – I:
Frame and Body: Classification of automobiles, layout of chassis and sub systems
and their role, types of chassis - light, medium and heavy duty vehicle chassis. Role
and requirement of a chassis frame, types of frames, materials, loading points and
types of bodies.
UNIT – II:
Clutch and Gear Box: Types of clutch - single plate clutch, coil spring type and
diaphragm spring type, multiple plate clutch, centrifugal clutch and clutch trouble
diagnosis. Need for gearbox, types of gear box - sliding mesh, constant mesh and
synchromesh, overdrives, transfer case, gear shifting mechanisms and transmission
trouble diagnosis.
UNIT – III:
Automatic Transmission: Need for fluid coupling and torque converters, epicyclical
gearbox, automatic transmission – automatic manual transmission, continuously
variable transmission and fully automatic transmission, control mechanisms and
limitations.
UNIT – IV:
Drive Line and Final Drive: Propeller shaft drive, torque reaction and drive thrust,
Hotchkiss drive, torque tube drive and universal joints. Front axle and its types, stub
axle and its types, rear axle and its types. Need for differential, working, non-slip
differentials, differential lock and drive line and final drive trouble diagnosis.
UNIT – V:
Steering System: Principle of steering, Ackerman’s and Davis steering mechanisms,
steering layout, types of steering gearbox, types of front axle and stub axle, steering
geometry. Purpose, working and types of power steering.
Suspension System: Types of suspension - rigid axle suspension and independent
suspension, types of suspension spring - leaf spring, coil spring, torsion bar spring, air
spring, rubber spring and hydro elastic spring. Role and types of shock absorber,
construction and working. Steering and suspension trouble diagnosis.
UNIT – VI:
Brake System: Stopping distance, time and braking efficiency, effect of weight
transfer, braking torque, classification of brakes, drum and disc brakes, construction
and working of mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, power-assisted brakes and servo
brakes. Drum brake and disc brake trouble diagnosis.
Tyres and Wheels: Types and construction of wheel, tyre requirements, bias ply and
radial ply tyres, tubeless tyres, wheel balancing and tyre rotation.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Advanced Vehicle Technology, Heinz Heisler, 2nd Edition, Butterworth Heinemann
Publishers, 2002
2. Automotive Mechanics, Giri N. K., Khanna Publications, 2008
REFERENCES:
1. The Motor Vehicle, Garrett T. K., Newton K. and Steeds W., 13th Edition,
Butterworth Heinemann Publishers, 2001
2. Automotive Mechanics, William Crouse and Donald Anglin, 10th Edition, McGraw
Hill Publication, 2010
3. Automotive Mechanics, Srinivasan S., 2nd Edition, McGraw Hill, 2003
4. Automotive Chassis, Heldt P. M., Chilton & Co., 1996
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
0 2 1
(A19PC2AE01) AUTOMOTIVE CHASSIS LABORATORY
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Automotive Chassis
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To identify and study of automotive chassis systems
• To distinguish functionality of various running and control systems
• To understand the troubles and remedies chassis systems
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Demonstrate the principle and functionality of various automotive systems
CO-2: Dismantle and assemble chassis systems
CO-3: Inspect and identify the faults chassis systems
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
ANY 10 EXPERIMENTS TO BE CONDUCTED FROM THE FOLLOWING
1. Dismantling, inspection and assembling of clutch
2. Dismantling, inspection and assembling of sliding mesh gear box
3. Dismantling, inspection and assembling of constant mesh gear box
4. Dismantling, inspection and assembling of synchromesh gear box
5. Dismantling, inspection and assembling of automatic gear box
6. Dismantling, inspection and assembling of transaxle
7. Dismantling, inspection and assembling of transfer case
8. Dismantling, inspection and assembling of differential unit
9. Dismantling, inspection and assembling of brake system
10. Dismantling, inspection and assembling of suspension system
11. Dismantling, inspection and assembling of steering gear box
12. Dismantling, inspection and assembling of front and rear axle
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
0 2 1
(A19PC2AE02) METALLURGY AND MECHANICS OF SOLIDS LABORATORY
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Metallurgy and Material Engineering and Mechanics of
Solids
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To study the microstructure of different materials
• To understand the changes in microstructure after different heat treatments
• To analyze the various tests to be conducted on engineering materials
• To analyze the importance of tests in evaluating the corresponding mechanical
properties
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Identify different materials with microstructure
CO-2: Inspect the microstructure of a given material after heat treatments
CO-3: Evaluate the result of test and comment on the mechanical properties of
materials
CO-4: Decide a material and an appropriate test suitable for given application
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
Any 10 experiments to be conducted from the following
METALLURGY:
1. Preparation and study of the microstructure of metals like Iron, Cu and Al
2. Preparation and study of the microstructure of mild steels, low carbon steels, and
high carbon steels
3. Study of the microstructures of cast irons
4. Study of the microstructures of non-ferrous alloys
5. Study of the microstructures of heat treated steels
6. Hardenability of steels by Jominy end quench test
7. Study the microstructure of cutting tools
8. Study the micro structures of stainless steel
MECHANICS OF SOLIDS:
1. Tension test
2. Bending test - Simply supported and cantilever beams
3. Torsion test
4. Hardness test – Brinell’s and Rockwell hardness tests
5. Compression test on spring
6. Compression test on a cube
7. Impact test
8. Direct shear test
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
0 2 1
(A19PC2IT02) PYTHON PROGRAMMING LABORATORY
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To Install and run the Python interpreter
• To learn control structures
• To understand Lists, Dictionaries in python
• To handle Strings and Files in Python
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Develop the application specific codes using python
CO-2: Understand Strings, Lists, Tuples and Dictionaries in Python
CO-3: Verify programs using modular approach, file I/O, Python standard library
CO-4: Implement Digital Systems using Python
EXERCISE 1: Basics
Running instructions in Interactive interpreter and a Python Script
Write a program to purposefully raise Indentation Error and correct it
EXERCISE 2: Operations
Write a program to compute GCD of two numbers by taking input from the user
Write a program add.py that takes 2 numbers as command line arguments and
prints its sum.
EXERCISE 3: Control Flow
Write a Program for checking whether the given number is even number or not.
Write a program using for loop that loops over a sequence.
Python Program to Print the Fibonacci sequence using while loop
Python program to print all prime numbers in a given interval (use break)
EXERCISE 4: Lists
Find mean, median, mode for the given set of numbers in a list.
Write a program to convert a list and tuple into arrays.
Write a program to find common values between two arrays.
EXERCISE – 5 Dictionary
Write a program to count the numbers of characters in the string and store them in a
dictionary data structure
Write a program combine_lists into a dictionary.
EXERCISE 6: Strings
Write a program to check whether a string starts with specified characters.
Write a program to check whether a string is palindrome or not
EXERCISE 7: Strings Continued
Python program to split and join a string
Python Program to Sort Words in Alphabetic Order
EXERCISE 8: Files
Write a program to print each line of a file in reverse order.
Write a program to compute the number of characters, words and lines in a file.
Write a program to count frequency of characters in a given file.
EXERCISE 9: Functions
Simple Calculator program by making use of functions
Find the factorial of a number using recursion
Write a function dups to find all duplicates in the list.
Write a function unique to find all the unique elements of a list.
EXERCISE 10: Functions - Problem Solving
Write a function cumulative_ product to compute cumulative product of a list of
numbers.
Write a function reverse to print the given list in the reverse order.
Write function to compute GCD, LCM of two numbers
Exercise 11: Multi-D Lists
Write a program that defines a matrix and prints
Write a program to perform addition of two square matrices
Write a program to perform multiplication of two square matrices
Exercise 12: Modules
a) Install NumPypackage with pip and explore it.
Exercise 13:
Write a program to implement Digital Logic Gates – AND, OR, NOT, EX-OR
Write a program to implement Half Adder, Full Adder, and Parallel Adder
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Python Programming: A Modern Approach, Vamsi Kurama, Pearson
2. Learning Python, Mark Lutz, Orielly
REFERENCES:
1. Think Python, Allen Downey, Green Tea Press
2. Core Python Programming, W. Chun, Pearson
3. Introduction to Python, Kenneth A. Lambert, Cengage
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1ME03) FLUID MECHANICS AND MACHINERY
(Common to ME and AE)
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To understand the properties of fluids, principles of buoyancy, flow, force and
head calculations
• To evaluate of types of fluid flow, Laminar and dynamic
• To know boundary layer principles applied to airfoils
• To learn principles of operation of different types of hydraulic machinery
• To understand hydraulic systems
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Analyze the fluid properties to solve flow, force and velocity problems
CO-2: Evaluate the flow characterizing in static and dynamic nature of flow
CO-3: Apply fluid flow and dynamics in solving problems in hydraulic machines
CO-4: Understand the model analysis of hydraulic machinery and select appropriate
machines for hydro power plant
CO-5: Analyze the hydraulic systems
UNIT – I:
Fluid Statics: Properties of fluid – specific gravity, viscosity, surface tension, vapor
pressure and their influence on fluid motion, Pressure at a point, measurement of
pressure, Forces on immersed surfaces, Center of pressure, Buoyancy, Elements of
stability of floating and submerged bodies.
UNIT – II:
Fluid Kinematics: Introduction, methods of describing the fluid motion, Classification
of flows, acceleration equations, Stream line, path line and streak lines and stream
tube, continuity equation, Stream function, velocity potential function, introduction
to free and forced vortex flows.
UNIT – III:
Fluid Dynamics: Surface and body forces – Euler‘s and Bernoulli‘s equation,
Venturimeter, Orifice meter, Pitot tube, Reynolds experiment –Darcy Weisbach
equation – Minor losses in pipes – pipes in series and pipes in parallel. Momentum
equation, force on pipe bends.
UNIT – IV:
Boundary Layer Theory: Development of boundary layer along a thin flat plate,
laminar boundary layer and turbulent boundary layer, Laminar sub layer, boundary
layer separation, Drag and lift forces - Aero foils, pressure and form drags.
Impact of Jets: Hydrodynamic force of jets on flat, inclined and curved vanes - jet
striking centrally and at tip, flow over radial vanes.
UNIT – V:
Hydraulic Turbines: Classification of turbines, design of Pelton wheel, Francis turbine
and Kaplan turbine – working proportion, work done, efficiency, draft tube- theory,
functions and efficiency. Geometric similarity, Unit and specific quantities,
characteristic curves, governing of turbines, selection of type of turbine, cavitation,
surge tank and water hammer, elements of hydropower plant.
UNIT – VI:
Hydraulic Pumps: Classification, centrifugal pumps – types, working, work done,
monomeric head, losses and efficiency, specific speed – pumps in series and
parallel
– performance characteristic curves, NPSH, Reciprocating Pump – types, Working,
Discharge, slip, indicator diagrams
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Hydraulics and Fluid Mechanics Including Hydraulics Machines, P. N. Modi, S. M.
Seth
2. Introduction to Fluid Mechanics, R. W. Fox, A. T. McDonald and P. J. Pritchard
REFERENCES:
1. Fluid Mechanics, V. L. Streeter & E. B. Wylie
2. Fluid Mechanics, Fundamentals & Applications, Yunus A. Çengel, John M.
Cimbala
3. Fluid Mechanics, F. M. White
4. Fundamentals of Fluid Mechanics, Bruce Roy Munson, Donald F. Young,
Theodore H. Okiishi, Wade W. Huebsch, Wiley Publication
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(A19PC1AE02) APPLIED THERMODYNAMICS
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Mathematics and Thermodynamics
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To extend thermodynamic principles to different thermodynamic systems
• To understand the energy conversion processes and equipment
• To provide basic concepts of refrigeration and psychrometry
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Apply thermodynamic principles to understand various thermodynamic
systems
CO-2: Investigate the effectiveness of energy conversion processes/components in
mechanical power generation
CO-3: Analyse the vapour compression refrigeration cycle and carry out basic
psychrometric calculations
UNIT – I:
Steam Generators: Introduction, classification of boilers, working principles of fire
tube and water tube boilers, low pressure boilers, high pressure boilers, Babcock and
Wilcox, Lamont boiler, boiler draught, performance of boilers and equivalent
evaporation.
UNIT – II:
Steam Condensers: Introduction, purpose and types of condenser, efficiency of
condenser and Edward air pump.
Steam Nozzles: Functions of nozzle, applications, types, flow through nozzles,
thermodynamic analysis, assumptions, velocity of nozzle at exit, ideal and actual
expansion in nozzle, velocity co-efficient, condition for maximum discharge and
critical pressure ratio.
UNIT – III:
Impulse Turbine: Mechanical details, velocity diagram, effect of friction, power
developed, axial thrust, diagram efficiency, condition for maximum efficiency and
methods to reduce rotor speed.
Reaction Turbine: Mechanical details, principle of operation, Thermodynamic
analysis of a stage, Degree of reaction, velocity diagram, parson’s reaction turbine
and condition for maximum efficiency.
UNIT – IV:
Reciprocating Compressors: Principle of operation, work required, isothermal
efficiency, volumetric efficiency and effect of clearance, multi stage compression,
under cooling, saving of work and minimum work condition for stage compression.
Rotary Compressors: Classification, roots blower, vane blower, centrifugal
compressor and axial compressor (Qualitative treatment only).
UNIT – V:
Gas Turbines: Classification of gas turbine plants, ideal cycle, essential components,
parameters of performance, actual cycle, regeneration, inter cooling and
reheating.
Jet and Rocket Propulsions: Classification of Jet propulsion, turbo jet and turboprop.
Solid and liquid propellant rockets.
UNIT – VI:
Refrigeration: Ideal refrigeration cycles - Vapor compression refrigeration cycle, Bell
Coleman refrigeration cycle and vapour absorption refrigeration system
Psychrometry: Psychrometric properties, psychrometric chart and psychrometric
processes – Sensible heating and cooling, humidification and dehumidification,
humidification with heating/cooling and dehumidification with heating/cooling.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Thermal Engineering, Mahesh M. Rathore, McGraw Hill Education, 2016
2. Gas Turbines, Ganesan V., TMH Publications, 2010
REFERENCES:
1. Thermal Engineering, Rajput R. K., Laxmi Publications, 2010
2. Thermodynamics and Heat Engines, Yadav R., Central Book Depot, 2002
3. Thermal Engineering, Ballaney P. L., Khanna Publishers, 2010
4. Gas Turbines and Propulsive Systems, Khajuria P. and Dubey S. P., Dhanpat Rai &
Sons, 2012
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(A19PC1AE03) THEORY OF MACHINES
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Engineering Mathematics, Engineering Mechanics and
Engineering Graphics
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To know different machine elements and mechanisms
• To understand kinematic and dynamic characteristics of different mechanisms
• To select suitable drives and mechanisms for a particular application
• To discuss the concepts of governors and gyroscope
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Identify mechanisms and predict their motion
CO-2: Analyse kinematic and dynamic characteristics of different mechanisms
CO-3: Apply suitable drives and mechanisms
CO-4: Evaluate performance of governors and effects of gyroscopic couple
UNIT – I:
Mechanisms and Machines: Introduction, mechanism and machine, rigid and
resistant bodies, link, kinematic pair, degrees of freedom, classification of kinematic
pairs, kinematic chain linkage, mechanism and structure and mobility of
mechanisms.
The four-bar chain, the slider-crank chain and double slider-crank chain
mechanisms, inversions of these mechanisms and mechanical advantage.
UNIT – II:
Kinematics: Velocity and acceleration-motion of link in machine - Determination of
velocity and acceleration diagrams, relative velocity method, application of relative
velocity method-four bar chain and single slider crank chain, Klein’s construction,
Coriolis acceleration, determination of Coriolis component of acceleration
Plane Motion of Body: Instantaneous center of rotation, centrode - relative motion
between two bodies-Three centers in line theorem.
UNIT – III:
Cams: Definition of cam and followers-their uses-types of followers and cams-
terminology-types of follower motion-uniform velocity-simple harmonic motion and
uniform acceleration, maximum velocity and acceleration during outward and
return strokes in the above three cases.
UNIT – IV:
Gears: Friction wheels and toothed gears-types-law of gearing, condition for
constant velocity ratio for transmission of motion, forms of teeth - Cycloidal and
involute profiles. Velocity of sliding - Phenomena of interference, condition for
minimum number of teeth to avoid interference, expression for arc of contact and
path of contact.
Gear Trains: Introduction, train value, types - Simple and reverted gear trains,
epicyclic gear train, methods of finding train value or velocity ratio and differential
gear for an automobile.
UNIT – V:
Governors: Necessity of governor, Classification of Governors, Working principle of
centrifugal governors- Watt, porter, Proell and Hartnell governors, Stability of
governor, Condition for stability, Concept of isochronism, Sensitivity of governor,
Characteristics of governors, hunting of governors.
UNIT – VI:
Gyroscope: Angular velocity, angular acceleration, gyroscopic torque, gyroscopic
effect on naval ships, stability of an automobile and stability of a two-wheel vehicle.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Theory of Machines, Ratan S. S., 4th Edition, Tata McGraw Hill, 2017
2. Theory of Machines, Gordon R. Pennock & Joseph E. Shigley, John J. Uicker, 4th
Edition, Oxford University Press, 2014
REFERENCES:
1. Theory of Machines, Thomas Bevan, 3rd Edition, Pearson Education, 2009
2. Theory of Machines, Khurmi R. S. & Gupta J. K., S. Chand Publishing, 1976
3. Design of Machinery, Robart L. Norton, 3rd Edition, Tata McGraw Hill,2004
4. Theory of machines, Sadhu Singh, 3rd Edition, Pearson Education, 2011
5. Theory of Machines, Ballaney P. L., Khanna Publishers, 2003
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1AE04) AUTOMOTIVE ENGINES
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Physics and chemistry
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To present the constructional details and combustion in automotive engines
• To learn the principle and functions of an automotive engine sub-systems
• To know engine measurements and performance characteristics
• To provide the concepts and working of unconventional engines
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Understand the constructional details and combustion in automotive engines
CO-2: Describe the principle and functions of an automotive engine sub-systems
CO-3: Analyze engine measurements and performance characteristics
CO-4: Discuss the concepts and working of unconventional engines
UNIT – I:
Engine: Classification, principle, construction and working of four stoke and two
stroke SI and CI engines. Theoretical and actual indicator, valve and port timing
diagrams, stages of combustion in SI and CI engines, abnormal combustion and
combustion chambers.
UNIT – II:
Fuel System: Air fuel ratio requirements, principle and working of carburetor, multi-
point fuel injection and gasoline direct injection. Diesel fuel injection pump, types of
nozzles and common rail direct injection.
UNIT – III:
Engine Sensors and Actuators: Role of engine management system, sensors – engine
speed, mass air flow, manifold absolute pressure, throttle position, knock,
temperature, exhaust oxygen level and accelerometers, actuators - solenoids,
relays, piezoelectric force generators and stepper motors and engine mapping.
UNIT – IV:
Cooling and Lubrication: Necessity of cooling, air-cooling, water cooling -
thermosyphon and pump cooling, radiator, pump, thermostat, antifreeze solution
and radiator fan. Mist, splash and forced lubrication, oil filters and oil pumps.
UNIT – V:
Engine Performance and Supercharging: Engine power, measurement of friction
power, engine efficiencies, performance characteristics and heat balance.
Supercharging: mechanical supercharging, turbocharging, types of superchargers
and methods of supercharging.
UNIT – VI:
Unconventional Engines: Stiriling engine - Working Principle, two piston engine,
control system, fuel requirement, emissions, merits and demerits. Wankel engine -
Construction and working, performance, emissions, merits and demerits. Variable
compression ratio engine - Necessity, theoretical analysis, different methods. HCCI
engine – principle and Strategies for Mixture Preparation, and stratified charge
engine – methods of charge stratification.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Internal Combustion Engine Fundamentals, John B. Heywood, 2nd Edition,
McGraw Hill Education, 2018
2. Internal Combustion Engines, Mathur M. L. and Sharma R. P., Dhanpat Rai
Publications, New Delhi, 2014
REFERENCES:
1. Internal Combustion Engines, Ganesan V., 4th Edition, Tata McGraw Hill, New
Delhi, 2017
2. Advanced Vehicle Technology, Heinz Heisler, Butterworth Heinemann Publishers,
2002
3. Introduction to Internal Combustion Engines, Richard Stone, SAE Publications,1999
4. Internal Combustion Engine, Willard W. Pulkrabek, Prentice Hall Publication, 1997
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1AE05) MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Metallurgy and Material Science and Workshop
/Manufacturing Practices
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To understand about sand casting and metal casting techniques
• To impart the knowledge of various welding processes
• To understand about the importance of mechanical working processes
• To appreciate metal cutting process and working principles of various machine
tools
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Select the suitable casting technique for making the components
CO-2: Perform different welding processes and understand importance of welding
CO-3: Know the various metal working processes
CO-4: Analyze the metal cutting process and perform various machining processes
UNIT – I:
Casting: Steps involved in making a casting; Advantage of casting and its
applications; Types of foundry sands, Types of patterns – Materials used for patterns,
Pattern allowances; Principles of Gating, Gating ratio; Risers- Types;
Special Casting Processes: Centrifugal, Die, Investment casting only, Cupola furnace
and Electric arc furnace only.
UNIT – II:
Welding: Classification of welding processes, types of welded joints, Gas welding, TIG
& MIG welding, Resistance welding, thermit welding, friction stir welding, Soldering
and Brazing, Welding defects.
UNIT – III:
Mechanical Working-I: Hot working; Cold working; Strain hardening; Recovery;
Recrystallisation and grain growth; Blanking and piercing; Bending and forming;
Drawing and its types; Wire drawing and Tube drawing; Coining; Hot and cold
spinning. {Limited to processes, advantages, disadvantages and applications only}
UNIT – IV:
Mechanical Working-II: Extrusion - Basic extrusion process and its characteristics; Hot
extrusion and Cold extrusion; Forward extrusion and Backward extrusion – Impact
extrusion; Hydrostatic extrusion; Extrusion defects. Forging Processes - Principles of
forging; Tools and dies; Types of Forging; Smith forging; Drop Forging; Forging
defects. {Limited to processes, advantages, disadvantages and applications only}
UNIT – V:
Theory of Metal Cutting: Elements of cutting process, classification of cutting tools,
geometry of single point tool, orthogonal cutting, chip formation and types of chips.
Force relationships (Merchant’s force circle), velocity relationships, cutting speed,
feed, depth of cut. Tool wear and tool life, coolants, machinability and tool
materials.
Engine Lathe: Principle of working, Classification, Specifications, Lathe parts, Work
holders, Tool holders, Lathe attachments, Operations performed and Machining
time.
UNIT – VI:
Milling Machine: Principle of working, Classification, Specifications, Features of
horizontal, vertical and universal milling machines, Milling cutters, Operations
performed, Overview on indexing and Machining time.
Shaping, Slotting and Planning Machines: Principle of working, parts, Specifications,
Classification, Operations performed.
Drilling and Boring Machines: Principle of working, Parts, Specifications, Classification
and Operations performed.
Overview on Grinding Process and Machines
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Manufacturing Technology, Volume - I & II, Rao P. N., 5th Edition, McGraw Hill,
2018
2. Production Technology, Jain R. K., Khanna Publishers, 2004
REFERENCES:
1. Manufacturing Engineering and Technology, Kalpakjian S., Schmid R., 4th Edition,
Pearson Publishers, 2002
2. Production Technology, Sharma P. C., 8th Edition, S. Chand Publishing, 2014
3. Principles of Modern Manufacturing, Mikell P. Groover, 5th Edition, Wiley, 2014
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 1.5
(A19PC2ME03) FLUID MECHANICS AND MACHINERY LABORATORY
(Common to ME and AE)
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulic Machines
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To analyze the experiments to understand the concept, find the values and
obtain the result of experiments
• To apply fundamental principles of fluid mechanics for the solution of practical
mechanical engineering problems of water conveyance in pipes, orifices, mouth
pieces, notches & weirs
• To analyze various pumps, water turbines, pipes and pressure measurement
devices
• To evaluate efficiency for pumps and turbines
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Apply fundamental equations of fluid mechanics for turbines and pumps
CO-2: Model and analyse fluid flow problems in mechanical engineering
CO-3: Create a model of fluid flow equipments
CO-4: Evaluate the experimental results with theoretical concepts
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
ANY 10 EXPERIMENTS to be conducted from the following:
1. Verification of Bernoulli’s theorem
2. Calibration of Venturimeter / Orifice meter
3. Calibration of notches
4. Determination of friction factor for a given pipe
5. Determination of Minor losses for the given equipment
6. Impact of jet on vanes
7. Performance test on Pelton wheel
8. Performance test on Francis turbine
9. Performance test on Kaplan turbine
10. Performance test on single stage centrifugal pump
11. Performance test on multi stage centrifugal pump
12. Performance test on reciprocating pump
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 1.5
(A19PC2AE03) THEORY OF MACHINES LABORATORY
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Theory of Machines
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To evaluate the follower movement and mass moment of Inertia
• To understand the working of various governors
• To study the static and dynamic balancing and gyroscopic effects
• To analyze whirling of shaft and natural frequency of undamped and damped
free vibration system
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Balance the static and dynamic forces and identify the effects of gyroscopic
couple
CO-2: Calculate the natural frequency of Undamped and damped free vibration
system
CO-3: Draw cam profile based on the follower movement and calculate the mass
moment of inertia
CO-4: Analyse the various governors
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
Any 10 experiments to be conducted from the following
1. Pressure distribution in journal bearing
2. Follower and cam analysis
3. Hartnell governor test
4. Porter and Proell governor test
5. Static and dynamic balancing using rigid blocks
6. Motorized gyroscope
7. Bifilar and Trifilar suspension system test
8. Whirling speed of a given shaft
9. Undamped torsional vibration of a single rotor shaft and two rotor shaft system
10. Damped force vibration of a spring mass system
11. Undamped free vibration of an equivalent spring mass system
12. Coriolli’s component of acceleration at various speeds of rotation
13. Study of epicyclic gear train
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
0 2 1
(A19PC2AE04) AUTOMOTIVE ENGINES LABORATORY
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Automotive engines
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To show valve and port timing diagrams
• To test performance characteristics of IC engine and compressor
• To estimate optimum cooling and heat balancing of an engine
• To perform dismantling and assembling of an engine
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Illustrate valve and port timing diagrams
CO-2: Analyze performance characteristics of IC engine and compressor
CO-3: Evaluate optimum cooling and heat balancing of an engine
CO-4: Demonstrate dismantling and assembling of an engine
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
Any 10 experiments to be conducted from the following
1. Valve timing diagram for 4-stroke Diesel engine
2. Valve timing diagram for 4-stroke petrol engine
3. Port timing diagram for 2-stroke petrol engine
4. Performance test on 4-stroke single cylinder Diesel engine
5. Performance test on 4-stroke single cylinder petrol engine
6. Heat balance test on 4-stroke single cylinder Diesel engine
7. Morse test on multi-cylinder petrol engine
8. Optimum cooling temperature test on single cylinder Diesel engine
9. Performance evaluation on computerized Diesel engine
10. Performance test on reciprocating compressor test rig
11. Dismantling, inspection and assembling of multi-cylinder petrol engine
12. Dismantling inspection and assembling of multi-cylinder Diesel engine
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
0 2 0
(A19MN6HS02) ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Basic knowledge of environmental issues
COURSE DESCRIPTION:
Environmental science is the study of patterns and processes in the natural world
and their modification by human activity. We as human beings are not an entity,
separate from the environment around us, rather we are a constituent seamlessly
integrated and co-exist with the environment around us. To understand current
environmental problems, we need to consider physical, biological and chemical
processes that are often the basis of those problems. The course requires the
students to identify and analyse natural and human- made environmental problems,
evaluate the relative risks associated with these problems, and examine alternative
solutions for resolving or preventing them. This course will survey some of the many
environmental science topics at an introductory level, ultimately considering the
sustainability of human activities on the planet. We are not an entity so separate
from the environment that we can think of mastering and controlling it rather we
must understand that each and every action of ours reflects on the environment
and vice versa
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To recognize the impacts of human interventions towards environment
• To list out the benefits in creating a sustainable environment
• To sketch out various activities in achieving a cleaner environment
• To emphasize the role of an individual for a better planet to live
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Gain a variety of experiences & acquire a basic knowledge about the
environment & its allied problems
CO-2: Interpret the key components in safe guarding the environment
CO-3: Appraise the quality of environment in order to create a healthy atmosphere
CO-4: Familiarize with the individual responsibilities towards green revolution
MODULE 1: INTRODUCTION
Environmental Science: Introduction, Definition, scope and importance.
MODULE 2: AWARENESS ACTIVITIES
Small group meetings about:
• Water management
• Projects Vs Environment
• Generation of less waste
• Promotion of recycle use
• Impact of Science & Technology on Environment
• Avoiding electronic waste
MODULE 3: SLOGAN AND POSTER MAKING EVENT
• Food waste management
• Rain water harvesting
• Climate change
• Green Power
• Water conservation
• Green at work
• Role of IT in environment and human health
• Sustainable development
MODULE 4: EXPERT LECTURES ON ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE
• Environmental Impact Assessment
• Industrial waste treatment
• Organic farming/Vertical gardens/Hydroponics
MODULE 5: CLEANLINESS DRIVE
• Indoor air pollution
• Vehicular pollution
• VISUAL pollution
• Waste management at home
• Composting
• Plastic recycling
MODULE 6: CASE STUDIES
• HPCL disaster in Vizag
• Oleum gas leak in Delhi
• Mathura Refinery & Taj Mahal
• Conservation of Hussain Sagar lake
• The Cleanliest city of India-Surat
• Green Buildings in India
• KBR park in Hyderabad (Environmental protection Vs Development)
• Fluorosis
• Ecotourism & its impacts
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Environmental Studies for UG Courses, Erach Bharucha, UGC Publications, Delhi,
2004
2. Textbook of Environmental Studies, Deeksha Dave, S. S. Katewa, Cengage
Delmar Learning India Pvt., 2012
REFERENCES:
1. Introduction to Environmental Science, Y. Anjaneyulu, BS Publications, 2004
2. Environmental Studies, Anubha Kaushik & C. P. Kaushik, 4th Edition, New Age
International Publishers
