SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/cseDS-CYS/AI_Nexus.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous, ISO 9001:2015 & QS I-Gauge Diamond Rated Institute, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A++’ Grade
NBA Accreditation for B.Tech. CE,EEE,ME,ECE,CSE,EIE,IT,AME, M.Tech. STRE, PE, AMS, SWE Programmes
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi, Affiliated to JNTUH, NIRF (2023) Rank band:101-150 in Engineering Category
College with Potential for Excellence by UGC,JNTUH-Recognized Research Centres:CE,EEE,ME,ECE,CSE Vignana
Jyothi Nagar, Pragathi Nagar, Nizampet (S.O.), Hyderabad – 500 090, TS, India.
Telephone No: 040-2304 2758/59/60, Fax: 040-23042761
E-mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
Department of AI & DS
V O L U M E 1
E D I T I O N 1
OUR TEAM
Dr.M. Raja Sekar
Prof. and HOD
Mrs.E.Lalitha Mr.Manmath Nath Das
Asst. Proffessor Asst. Professor
ANANYA BHARATH
BANDHAM AJJARAPU
21071A7209 22071A7201
SRAVANI HARSH
RAVILLA BHASKERWAR
21071A7260 22071A7220
ABHISHEK BHANU TEJA
ALLABOINA
21071A7243
22071A7203
Why
Why
AI DS
AI DS
&
&
IN DEMAND SKILLS
AI&DS isn't just a buzzword; it's the heartbeat of
modern technology. As industries evolve, the need for
AI and DS expertise grows. Whether it's analyzing data
or creating intelligent systems, these skills are in high
demand across various sectors.
CARRIER AND RESEARCH
The skills acquired in AI&DS open doors to diverse
career opportunities. From tech giants to healthcare
pioneers, every industry seeks AI and DS experts. Our
department provides avenues for internships,
placements, and networking, preparing students for
success.
FUTURE IMPACT
In a world driven by data and innovation, AI & DS holds the key
to unlocking the future. Graduates from our program are poised
to lead the charge, driving transformative change and shaping
a brighter tomorrow.
C O N T E N T S
TOPICS OF THE PROPOSAL
01. INTRODUCTION TO AI&DS
02. HEAD OF DEPARTMENT
03. FACULTY AND STAFF
04. FACULTY ACHIEVEMENTS
05. LEARNING TRIUMPHS
06. EVENTS
07. INTRO T O CLUBS
08. VJ CreatinAI EVENTS
09. VJ HACKSLASH EVENTS
10. LITERARY KALEIDOSCOPE
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
AND DATA SCIENCE
Throughout their journey at VNRVJIET, our students
distinguished themselves through their accomplishments
in a multitude of extracurricular activities. Their
leadership and organizational prowess and evident in
their active participation in various student activities and
clubs. Adapt to navigating the complexities of inter-
college competitions, they consistently showcase their
skills in diverse settings.
Head of Department
CSE-(CyS,DS) and AI&DS
DR. M. RAJA SEKAR
College is a transformative experience, and it's a time for
you to explore your passions, develop critical thinking
skills, and grow as an individual. I encourage you to
embrace every opportunity that comes your way, both
inside and outside the classroom. Engage with your
professors, ask questions, and seek guidance when
needed.
OUR STAFF
FACULTY & STAFF
Faculty spotlight provides an opportunity to
recognize and celebrate the expertise, passion, and
commitment of faculty members.
This faculty spotlight is more than a glimpse into the
professional lives of our esteemed educators; it's a
celebration of their commitment to excellence,
passion for knowledge, and the positive influence
they have on our academic community.
FACULTY
ACHIEVEMENTS
1
Dr. M. Raja Sekar has created a
YouTube Channel on Applied
Data Science with Python to
share his expertise in Data
Science concepts.
2
Dr. M. Raja Sekar and Dr. T. Sunil
Kumar have been selected as
Research supervisor under JNTUH
3
Dr. T. Sunil Kumar, Professor,
published text books on "Big
Data Analytics", "Data
Mining”, Tata publications,
4
Hyderabad.
Mrs.G.Asha Latha completed NPTEL
Certification in “Cloud Computing”
FACULTY
ACHIEVEMENTS
5
Mrs.E.Lalitha and Mr.Manmath
Nath Das have organised the
Faculty Development Program on
“ Introduction to Data Science &
Foundations of Data Science ”
from 8th June 2023 to 16th June
6
2023.
Mr. Manmath Nath Das published a
patent on “ Smart System for
Ensuring Passenger Security with
Driver monitoring and History
Tracking Under Screening &
7
Classification ”.
Mr. Manmath Nath Das , Asst.
Professor, published text book on
"IoT and Machine Learning", SIPH
publications, Hyderabad.
8
Surana Amruta Vijay was awarded
doctor of Philosophy on
“Application of Distributed System
Technology – Guided Machine
Learning” under the Co-
supervision of Dr. M. Raja Sekar.
FACULTY
ACHIEVEMENTS
9
Mrs.E.Lalitha has organized a
workshop on “ Statistical analysis
using Python” from 6th March
2023 to 11th March 2023
10
Dr.N.Sunanda completed NPTEL
Certification on “The Joy of
Computing using Python”
11
Mrs. Deepika .B completed NPTEL
Certification on “Introduction to
Research” with Elite Grade.
12
Mr.Manmath Nath Das completed
NPTEL Certification on “Data
Science for Engineers” with Elite
Grade
LEARNING
TRIUMPHS
P David Raj (21071A7251) from third year
has built a startup “RJS Innovations”
supported by VJHub at VNRVJIET.
B.Deepak Srinivas (21071A7217), D.Rohith
(21071A7218), and G.Akanksha (21071A7220)
from third year recieved 1st Place in Spark
Innovation
P David Raj (21071A7251) and K Likith
(21071A7204) from 3rd year achieved 3rd
place in GRIET Challenge ACI 48HRS National
Hackathon
Ananya (21071A7209), Bhavana Reddy
(21071A7222), Sai Rohith (21071A7218)
from 3rd year has achieved 2nd place in
Paper presentation
K.Vihar (21071A7232) from 3rd year
has been selected for skills-uprise
internship
LEARNING
TRIUMPHS
Pranav (21071A7256), Abhishek (21071A7203),
Abhinav (21071A7202), Nitin (21071A7250) and
INS Kartik (21071A7227) has won the 1st Place
in VALORANT Championship in Convergence
Nayini Bhavitha (21071A7248) from 3rd year
has received an internship from Tech
Mahindra as a “Junior Web Developer”
Kommineni Varun (21071A7233) from
3rd year has been selected in Amazon
ML School .
Pranava Akshara (21071A7257) from 3rd
year has received a research internship
from Srishti.
Pranav (21071A7256), Sreeker (21071A7224),
and INS Kartik (21071A7227) students from
3rd year have achieved 1st place
at Innovation Spark.
LEARNING
TRIUMPHS
G.Sai Vinay (21071A7221) from 3rd year has
participated in “START-UP RACE” by
Entrepreneurship Development Cell 2023.
Adithya (21071A7204) and Vinay Kalyan
(21071A7221) students from 3rd year have
completed Machine Learning Specialization in
Coursera from Stanford University
Nayini Bhavitha (21071A7248) in 3rd year is
pursuing an Accenture certification
internship course
JAHNAVI PINNAPAREDDY (22071A7221) in
2nd year has received a Scholarship from
the Reliance foundation .
Vashishta (22071A7252) from 2nd year has
been selected for the ONGC Scholarship.
LEARNING
TRIUMPHS
NASA SPACE APPS
G Sai Vinay (21071A7221) has qualified for
the next round to compete among 50 other
teams and chance to collaborate with
different technical experts and received
Galactic Problem Solver Certificate.
VJ MUNSOC
Vinay Kalyan Gajula (21071A7219) has
received a certificate of appreciation
from VJMUNSOC for the delegacy of
Bhupendra Yadav in the Youth
Parliament held on 20th November
2023.
AMALTHEA EVENT
Amalthea is India's first student-run
Annual Technical Summit conducted by IIT
Gandhinagar.
G Sai Vinay (21071A7221) has received a
participation certificate from IIT Gandhi
Nagar for active participation in the Event
LEARNING
TRIUMPHS
MICROSOFT LEARN
Adithya Penagonda (21071A7221) was selected
as Microsoft Learn Campus Ambassador
HULT PRIZE
Nagula Vamshi Goud - 22071A7240
Samineni Karthika - 22071A7254
Lekha Sri Reddy Nimma - 22071A7242
Vinith Kulkarni - 22071A7261
Winner at OnCampus Round of National Summit HULT PRIZE
and successfully attended Bombay for National Round
PYTHON HACKATHON
Bharath Ajjarapu - 22071A7201
Harsh Bhaskerwar - 22071A7220
Allaboina Abhishek - 22071A7203
Myneni Nehanjani - 22071A7239
Narne Varun Chowdary - 22071A7241
Winner of Python Bootcamp Hackathon for Image
Recognition API using Flask with a finetuned Model.
Innovation Day Workshop
Lekha Sri Reddy Nimma - 22071A7242
Vinith Kulkarni - 22071A7261
Nagula Vamshi Goud - 22071A7240
Samineni Karthika - 22071A7254
P. Manish Kumar - 22071A7246
V. Varshith - 22071A7262
Preetham Jonah - 23075A7202
Has given a Pitch in the Innovation Day Workshop at IIT HYDERABAD
EVENTS
Attended FTCCI IT Expo
Visiting the industry to showcase their project
demo on Exo-skeleton Arm and Drone.
EVENTS
Supporting Blood Donation Camps
Training program on drone technology and
awareness creation session in MJPTBCW
Residential school, Jangampally, Kamareddy
Village.
CODEGYAN PYTHON BOOTCAMP
Day 1: Explored Python basics, creating a Virtual Assistant capable of greetings, time-
telling, browser opening, map locating, and data searching using modules like
random and time.
Day 2: Mastered Flask for web development, gaining confidence in crafting and
deploying web applications on AWS.
Day 3: Dived into OpenCV, discovering the power of Face Detection and Recognition,
opening doors to limitless possibilities in image and video processing
Day 4: Conducted a Hackathon with the boot camp skills
FIST FULL OF RICE
Fist Full of Rice is organising such a noble cause event and sincere
thanks and gratitude on behalf of the department to the
management for supporting us and allowing doing something for
society. AI & DS Students have contributed 125 kgs of Rice to
support this noble cause.
S T U D E N T C L U B S
VJ CreatinAI
VJ CreatinAI, is the official AI club of departement of
CSE-(CyS, DS) and AI & DS at VNRVJIET
To provide a platform for students to learn Artificial
Intelligence, and solve real-world problems and stay up-
to-date with AI
VJ HACKSLASH
VJ Hackslash is the official coding club of the
department of CSE-(CyS, DS) and AI & DS at VNRVJIET.
To provide a platform for students to develop coding
skills, and stay up-to-date with the latest
advancements in the field of Computer Science. We aim
to create a community of like-minded individuals who
can collaborate, innovate, and help each other grow.
VJ CreatinAI
VJ CREATINAI LOGO DESIGN COMPETITION
TOP LOGOS
The technical club recently held an exciting Logo design competition, where
members showcased their creative prowess. Participants crafted diverse logos,
and the winning design, revealed during a captivating ceremony, now stands as
the emblem of our vibrant community.
VJ CreatinAI
GAME - A - PALOOZA
GAME-A-PALOOZA is a technical event which showcases the
possibilities of AI with fun games like Google Quick Draw, Discussions
and the inner workings of AI and the real-world problems to be solved.
VJ Hackslash
CODING CONTEST
CONTEST DETAILS
This contest was conducted on 29th June 2022. A total of 164
students have registered for this contest. The contest was conducted
on HackerRank. Out of 164 students, 138 students have participated in
and the top 60 students were taken as club members in Hackslash.
VJ Hackslash
POSTER MAKING
VJ Conducted a digital Poster Presentation competition on 25-November-
2022 (Friday) for the 1st year students of AI & DS, CYS, and DS Branches. A
total of 30 students from CYS, 3 students from DS-A, 6 students from DS-B,
and 20 students from AI&DS have participated in this Competition. Topics
are Favourite PC Game,Favourite IPL Team and Favourite Web Series (or)
Anime.
VJ Hackslash
30 DAYS OF CODE
On May 6th 2023, The seniors of VJ Hackslash organized a session in
which they discussed concepts in competitive programming and
some concepts from C++ STL(Standard Template Library). A total of 17
students attended the session. The session was conducted by the
technical heads of the club. The session consisted of:
An hour-long theory session on C++ maps and anagram problems
A doubt session for half an hour
Introduction to competitive programming websites like
HackerRank, CodeChef and LeetCode
After the session, juniors who actively participated in the session were
appreciated. Then feedback was taken from them about the session,
regarding their ability to understand and apply the taught concepts.
VJ Hackslash
BRANDBURST
EVENT DETAILS
The central goal of the "BRAND BURST" event involves assigning a
product to a group of 3-4 students, who are tasked with developing
marketing strategies to promote the product. This includes
showcasing its features, evolution, and projecting its future uses.
L I T E R A R Y
K A L E I D O S C O P E
ARTICLE.01 DEC,2023
IMPACT OF AI IN INDIA
Artificial Intelligence is a
fantastic tool that allows us
to consider ideas we never
could before. India's Prime
Minister, Narendra Modi,
thinks AI is fantastic as well.
"Artificial intelligence is like a
tribute to how smart
humans are," he remarked.
We've always had the ability
to think and create, and now
our tools and technology can
think and learn as well! AI is
one of the most exciting
developing technologies.
One big question people have is about jobs. Will AI take away our jobs?
Some people are worried that AI will change everything and that there
won't be any jobs left for humans. But according to The India Express,
around 20 million jobs will be created by 2025 because of AI. The World
Economic Forum says that in the future, there will be new job roles because
of AI. There will be AI and Machine Learning Specialists, Data Scientists,
Information and Security Analysts, IoT Specialists, and Big Data Specialists.
PM Modi also talked about making education better with technology. They
want to boost digital infrastructure, digital content, and capacity. They're
creating virtual labs so that learners can get hands-on experience. The
government is also promoting innovation and entrepreneurship. As per
market reports and predictions for 2025, some job roles that heavily rely on
repetitive or manual tasks may face potential job losses due to automation.
For example, positions involving data entry, basic administrative tasks, or
certain manufacturing processes could be more susceptible to automation
through AI.
Written by Ajjarapu Bharath (AIDS) [22071A7201] .
ARTICLE.02 DEC,2023
ChatGPT’s Code Interpreter
Open AI revealed in a recent
announcement that the
powerful ChatGPT Plus plugin
Code Interpreter is set to
revolutionize programming.
The language model can write,
run, and test its own code
thanks to this feature. A lot of
people have wondered if this
will be the end of human
developers, yet we should dig
into seven unprecedented
things it can do and survey its
effects on the programming
scene.
Code Interpreter excels at running Python code despite its current
limitations and has a small set of dependencies. In future iterations, it may
be able to work with other languages and be integrated into platforms like
GitHub Co-pilot, which provide a customized environment for code
execution and it is now capable of uploading files, making abstract tasks like
homework obsolete. It can, for instance, extract the text by uploading an
image of a math problem through OCR, Python code to resolve the issue
and verify the outcomes.
Code interpreters can also assist in the creation of trading algorithms by
displaying data with tools like Seaborn, allowing users to investigate
relationships between variables. Code Interpreter still falls short in some
areas, but researchers claim that a similar algorithm developed by The
University of Florida produced impressive returns of up to 500%, exceeding
the 12% returns of the typical human fund manager. Even though human
programmers may not need to be beaten by AI, it can certainly push them
to their limits and inspire creativity. A code interpreter has a lot of potential,
and its ongoing development will undoubtedly shape programming's
future.
Written by Abhishek Allaboina (AI&DS) [22071A7203] .
ARTICLE.03 DEC,2023
GOOGLE’S AI CHIP
Google designed its own AI chip called
Tensor. Which is to be used in its new Pixel 6
smartphone. The chip combines a GPU, CPU,
ISP (image signal processor), TPU (Tensor
processing unit), and a dedicated security
chip. Tensor is well over four times faster
than Qualcomm Snapdragon 765G that was
used in the Pixel 5, according to a Google
executive. Google wanted to bring Edge AI
to its users better than before, and it needed
a more power.
They wanted to introduce enhanced
computational photography such as
removing photobombers and resolving
blurry faces to its users helping them
perform day-to-day tasks with ease.
Plus, they wanted to introduce live
translation and transcription for their
users better than before. That was not
possible using the old Qualcomm
chips. Google designed its own
processing unit named Tensor
Processing Unit or TPU to perform
more efficiently with the Tensorflow.
The invention of TPU was a revolution
in AI.
Tensor helps many users have the opportunity to try the latest AI
advancement while they have no concerns about their privacy. Why?
Because the AI engine is running on the chip, no data is sent to the cloud for
further computation. On the other hand, the more tightly Google binds AI
software and hardware, the harder it will be for other companies to
compete. I don’t want to see days when other companies cannot even
compete in performing AI inference, i.e., compete in using AI. We almost lost
the game of model training to giant tech companies.
Written by Samineni Karthika (AI&DS) [22071A7254] .
DEC,2023
ARTICLE.04
ANALYSING TEXT BY There different types of OCR
technologies based on their use and
USING OCR IN NLP
application. Simple optical character
recognition software, Intelligent
character recognition software,
Intelligent word recognition, Optical
mark recognition. Some common OCR
use cases in various industries are
Banking, Healthcare, Logistics.
Programmatic Tools used in OCR are
Tesseract, Kraken OCR, Calamari OCR,
N
Nautilus OCR, PyOCR. AWS offers two
atural Language Processing (NLP) is
services that can help you implement
one of the most exciting fields in AI
OCR Amazon Textract, Amazon
and has already given rise to
Recognition.
technologies like chatbots, voice
assistants, translators, and many Written by Mrs.B.Deepika
Asst. Professor
other tools we use every day. Benefits
Dept of CSE-(CYS,DS) and AI&DS.
of NLP include to perform large-scale
data analytics,Cost reduction and
ARTICLE.05
streamlining of various processes,
increasing customer satisfaction, In-
CHATBOT IN
depth marketing understanding etc.
SCIENTIFIC WRITING
Optical Character Recognition (OCR)
T
automates data extraction from text,
he capabilities of AI chatbots,
either from a scanned document or
particularly leveraging the Generative
image file to a machine-readable text.
Pre-trained Transformer model,
For example, an application that
showcase their utility in assisting
allows you to scan a paper copy and
researchers and scientists across
turns this into a PDF document. After
various stages of the writing process.
the text is converted, it can be used
These tools can aid in material
for other NLP applications like
organization, generating initial drafts,
sentiment analysis and language
and even proofreading. However,
translation. The OCR engine or OCR
despite their potential benefits, it's
software works Image acquisition,
essential to acknowledge some critical
Preprocessing, Text recognition,
considerations. As of now, there hasn't
Pattern matching, Feature extraction,
been a publication within the critical
Postprocessing.
care medicine field prepared using this
approach.
DEC,2023
ensuring that they complement
human expertise rather than replace
it entirely.
Written By
Mrs.Rasmita Kumari Mohanty
Asst. Professor,
Department of CSE-(DS,CYS) and
It's crucial to note that while ChatGPT AI&DS.
and similar AI chatbots can streamline
ARTICLE.06
writing tasks, they should not replace
human judgment. The output
Metaverse Trends and
generated by these tools should always
undergo expert review before being
Predictions: Navigating
utilized in any critical decision-making
the Evolving Landscape
or application, especially within fields
as sensitive and consequential as
The trajectory of virtual reality (VR)
critical care medicine. Furthermore, the
and augmented reality (AR) is set to
use of AI chatbots in scientific writing
persist in the years ahead. In 2023,
presents ethical concerns. Potential
the immersive quality of workspaces
issues such as the risk of plagiarism,
within the metaverse is expected to
inaccuracies in generated content, and
amplify, fostering enriched
the accessibility of such software,
brainstorming, collaboration, and co-
particularly if it becomes a paid service,
creation in immersive meeting
could create disparities between high-
environments. Notably, Microsoft
and low-income countries. This raises
and Nvidia are actively engaged in
the necessity for establishing
shaping digital collaboration
consensus on how to regulate the use
platforms. Foreseen in the coming
of chatbots in scientific writing to
year is the advancement of avatar
ensure ethical and equitable practices.
technology. Through motion capture,
As these AI technologies continue to
avatars will replicate our unique
advance and find applications in
body language and gestures,
various fields, including critical care
enabling more authentic interactions
medicine, it becomes increasingly
in the metaverse. Avatars, imbued
important to navigate their use
with AI capabilities, can function as
ethically and responsibly,
our digital proxies, even when we are
offline.
DEC,2023
By the close of 2023, With these advancements, the
organizations prioritizing demand for accessibility may rise,
technological investment are potentially diminishing the
poised to be significantly more significance of hardware restrictions
advanced than their current over time. While headsets may
state. The Metaverse acts as a contribute to enhanced experiences
virtual realm facilitating in the coming year, their lasting
interactions , collaborations, impact appears doubtful.
activities, and business growth. Widespread adoption is likely to
Recent years have witnessed spur the development of more
enterprise organizations urgently sophisticated and user-friendly
developing their own spaces, platforms. These transformative
with the COVID-19 pandemic changes may transpire rapidly for
accelerating this trend in 2022. companies that clearly recognize the
value the Metaverse brings.
By the end of 2023, these
organizations could significantly
alter collaboration, innovation, and
profitability. In the upcoming year,
companies are projected to adopt a
more strategic approach to
unlocking business value through
the Metaverse. Unlike the
This discussion, based on insights from
experimental tone of early
my role as an early virtual platform
explorations in 2022, leaders are
founder, anticipates a heightened focus
expected to map their objectives
on the Metaverse in 2023, driven by
more directly, aiming to leverage the
social and economic factors.
Metaverse for faster goal
attainment, increased productivity,
METAVERSE TRENDS FOR 2023
cost efficiencies, and the
Anticipated for 2023 is the exponential
development of new forecasting
growth of the Metaverse, marked by
models. Risks associated with
increased immersion and
Metaverse investment may be offset
expansiveness. Technological strides
by its rapid scalability.
are expected to bring about more
realistic avatars, enhancing intricate
interactions within virtual realms.
DEC,2023
Without constraints like building new offices or attending conferences,
companies can easily test, pivot, and experience hypergrowth. By the end of
2023, early innovators might establish virtual corporate campuses with privacy
and security measures in place, fostering strategic and cultivated collaboration
like physical campuses.
VIRTUAL COMPANY GROWTH
Metaverse-related company growth may hinge on how organizations manage
their structure and people. While company culture influences some growth
aspects, the organizational structure plays a crucial role in Metaverse success
in 2023. The struggles experienced by companies with hybrid work structures in
2022, particularly during the initial transition to remote work, underscore the
importance of effective remote work management for long-term success. Hiring
executive leadership capable of driving innovation and aligning staff with
company objectives becomes imperative. Consequently,
shifts in individual contributor, management, and executive roles may occur.
Some roles may contract as globally distributed teams handle tasks across
geographies, while new roles may emerge to systemize and operationalize the
Metaverse, including managing remote work, establishing communication
channels, setting productivity benchmarks, and defining culture. As 2023
unfolds, the potential for companies in the Metaverse is poised to expand,
limited only by the vision and commitment of organizations in response to the
demand for innovation. Leading organizations prioritizing technology
investments are likely to find themselves in a significantly more advanced
position by the end of 2023, especially those operating in fast-paced industries
with rapidly evolving trends.
Dr.Talluri Sunil Kumar
Professor
Department of Computer Science & Engineering-Data Science, Cyber Security
and Artificial Intelligence and Data Science
AUG,2023
ARTICLE.07
QUANTUM LEAP : In classical computers the smallest
unit of data is Bit, where as in
COMPUTING’S NEXT
quantum computers it is “Qubit”. Bits
FRONTIER
takes values either 0 or 1 but qubit
exists in a state where it is both 1 and
0 at the same time. This property of
qubit makes the time taking, complex
calculations faster. Outer most
electrons, photons, etc. are being
used as qubits.
Electrons are associated with
magnetic fields. Each electron can be
T
assumed as a small magnet. The
he quest to make computations and
orientation of this magnet will be in
calculations fast and easy led to the
the direction of the field. Orientation
inventions of classical computers. But
of the electron is “Spin”. Orientation
mankind’s curiosity is growing way
of electron is reversed by providing
faster than the rate at which classical
energy to the electron. This electron
computers can process the data. This
is in the opposite direction of field.
greed opened the path to the new way
Now the electron in spin up state can
of computing i.e., “Quantum
be
Computing”. Quantum Computers are
million times faster, efficient than the
classical computers.
Quantum Computers works on the
quantum principles like
“Superposition” and “Entanglement”.
Superposition refers to the Spin Down Spin Up
phenomenon where a quantum
considered as 0 and spin down state
system can exist in multiple states or
as 1. But electron doesn’t present in
positions simultaneously until it’s
only one state, it hovers between 0
observed or measured. Entanglement
and 1. It takes values in between 0 and
is a phenomenon in quantum
1 also.
mechanics where two or more
If there are two qubits, four
particles become correlated or linked
combinations are possible, (up, up)
in such a way that the state of one
→x1, (up, down) →x2, (down, up) →x3,
particle is instantaneously connected
(down, down) →x4. To represent 2 in
to the state of another, regardless of
bits, two bits are sufficient i.e., (10).
the distance between them.
But to represent 2 in qubits, you will
have to
AUG,2023
Company Quantum Computer Qubit Count
Google Sycamore 53
IBM Eagle 127
JonQ Quantum Inspire 1.6 128
Rigetti Aspen-11 112
D-Wave Advantage 53
express in terms of x1, x2, x3, x4 due to
PsiQuantum 128Q 128
the superposition of electrons. As a
result, two qubits contain four bits of 1QBit Aspen-X 100
information. So, if there are N qubits,
Xanadu Borealis 112
they contain 2^N bits of information.
Qubits count is important as well as
the qubits quality. The major
challenge in quantum computing is One of the major applications of
storage of data. Due to superposition, Quantum Computing is Quantum
the state in which qubit present at the Simulation through which large
number of possibilities can be
time of observation changes
analyzed in a short period of time.
continuously. So, much information is
Quantum Computing can be applied in
lost. Quantum Computer doesn’t
the fields of Cryptography, Drug
always work faster than normal
discovery, Material Science, etc.
computers. When you want to watch a
Research in Quantum Computing is
video, quantum computing doesn’t
still going on and has a long way to go.
improve the performance
significantly. In fact, classical
computer may perform better. Written By
K. Vihar
Quantum Computing is used where
IIIrd Year AI & DS
high accuracy is needed and
[21071A7232]
calculations take large amount of time.
AI ALCHEMY
Crafting Careers in AI and
Data Science
In the B.Tech realm, where knowledge floes,
AI and Data Science, the career echoes.
Bytes waltz with algorithms, a tech ballet,
For engineering minds, the career wallet.
The magazine's wit, where wisdom gleams,
AI's importance, a career of dreams.
Data science, the compass, navigating the sea,
B.Tech students sail to a future, tech glee.
Through the code's humor, a serious theme,
In the world of bytes, a promising scheme.
For careers to flourish, AI's the key,
In the VNR VJIET pages, the future they see.
So here's to AI, with circuits bright,
And B.Tech brilliance, in the coding light.
In the magazine, where bytes and humor meet,
For engineering minds, a poetic treat.
Written By
Mr. Manmath Nath Das
Asst. Professor
Dept of CSE-(CyS,DS) and AI&DS
ART GALLERY
AAkksshhaayyaa--33rrdd yyeeaarr
2211007711AA77222233
AAmmuullyyaa--22nndd yyeeaarr
2222007711AA77221177

We express our sincere appreciation for joining the
exploration of knowledge with AI&DS Department
Magazine. This publication is a testament to our team's
passion and commitment, collaboratively crafting
insightful content. Our goal is to present intellectually
stimulating material that not only informs but also ignites
fresh ideas and perspectives.
DEPARTMENT CLUBS
"Join our journey as we explore, create, and connect!"
@VNRVJIET.HYD @VNR VJIET @VNRVJIETHYD VNRJIET.AC.IN
