1. Imparting knowledge of the fundamentals of Engineering, Science and Technology in
2. Developing liaison with Academia, R & D institutions and Biotechnology
3. Inculcating interpersonal skills, team work, professional ethics, IPR and
4. Promoting strong research culture in students for life – long learning
About the Biotechnology Program
Apart from teaching, at VNR VJIET we counsel and guide the students based on their
B.Tech. – Biotechnology
Bioengineers could earn in par
Biomechanics, Biosensors, Bioelectronics, Computer aided biology etc., to become
Biotechnology is one of the highly skilled field and Biotechnologists and
Biotechnology is the transformative science of leveraging living systems - cells, organisms,
Biotechnology lab,
Biotechnology program in VNR VJIET an Autonomous Institute under Jawaharlal Nehru Technological
Biotechnology, Animal & Environmental Biotechnology, Bioprocess Engineering and
Department of Biotechnology
Department of Biotechnology, was established in 2025-26 academic year starting with B. Tech
Doctoral programs
Future Prospects and Placements
Graduates will be able to:
Habsiguda, Hyderabad for student related projects and R & D activities.
Heat Transfer
Immunology Lab, Downstream Processing Lab, and Animal Biotechnology Lab etc. The established
Industry for exposure in
Lab, Molecular Biology & Genetic Engineering Lab, Bioinformatics, Fluid Mechanics and
Laboratory Infrastructure:Department has established Cell Biology &
Labs. The labs which will be established shortly, are Bioprocess Engineering Lab, Plant
Memorandum of Understanding:
Microbiology Lab, Biochemistry
Nano-biotechnology and other emerging areas. Our pedagogy encourages imbibing practical
Nurturing Leadership:Cultivating critical thinkers, entrepreneurs, and
Programme Educational Objectives (PEOs)
This program, a merger of science, engineering and business, demands a multi-disciplinary
To emerge as a premier Centre in Biotechnology for education and research, fostering
University Hyderabad. Faculty members are qualified, extensive teaching and Research Experience
VNR VJIET has signed an MoU with Center for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB),
agriculture,
agriculture, and energy. Our curriculum offers multidisciplinary approach where students
and biological processes to pioneer innovations that enhance human health, nourish our
and good library, etc. Department offer students the ability to learn, advance and succeed in
and their application in addressing biological issues which are the emerging areas of
bioengineers apart from Life Sciences subjects. Other cutting edge areas students will be
bridges science and society. To nurture future-ready professionals who leverage
carry R&D activities apart from curriculum bound hand on experience with experiments.
commercialization.
covering all domains of Biotechnology are a part of the team. The department goals are to establish
cutting-edge biological
designed to meet the needs of students.
develop technological solutions to problems in health care, nutrition, environment,
discoveries at a breath taking pace. Our Program in B. Tech Biotechnology equips students
domain of biotechnology they can succeed as a part of career counselling.
entrepreneurial pursuit and project management
environment, energy, and industry driven, with ethical values for sustainable
exciting fields of Biotechnology and related domains with a variety of learning opportunities
exposed and specialize are in Medical Biotechnology & Bioinformatics, Plant
global problem-solvers who can
globally.
have good infrastructure (equipment’s) where students and faculty could conduct real time
https://vidwan.inflibnet.ac.in//profile/681837
https://vidwan.inflibnet.ac.in/profile/604694
https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/biotechnology/Krovvidi-SivaSai-biotechnology.pdf
https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/biotechnology/Teja-biotechnology.pdf
https://www.linkedin.com/in/krovvidi-s-r-sivasai-8126192b
https://www.linkedin.com/in/sarath-teja-ph-d-a70325273
in Biotechnology for a successful professional career
innovation that
issues integrated with engineering concepts to solve global challenges in health,
labs
lead India’s as well global biotech revolution.
mailto:bthead@vnrvjiet.in
planet, and power sustainable progress. Biotechnology continues to expand rapidly with new
potential which
practical aspects in engineering and solution of the industry oriented and societal
problems,
progress for India and
projects and
providing good academic environment to pursue undergraduate, Post graduate and
quality laboratory infrastructure for teaching and research, hand on experience individual projects
regulatory issues in students
scenarios. Department nurture tomorrow's bioengineers and technologists who can design,
skills that can be honed through project-based learning and by studying real-world case
students by
test, and manufacture biological systems and bio-based products for diverse applications.
to improve their employability in changing global environment
will learn engineering subjects such Mechanical, Electrical, Electronics, Computer Science
with any engineering professionals besides serving the nation.
with the scientific and technological expertise to address pressing global challenges and
workforce skilled in basic-research, product development, regulatory affairs and
