SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/A19/CE.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY HYDERABAD
B.TECH. I YEAR
(CIVIL ENGINEERING)
I SEMESTER A19
Contact
Course Code Title of the Course L T P/D Hours/ Credits
Week
A19BS1MT01 Calculus for Engineers 3 1 0 4 4
A19BS1CH01 Engineering Chemistry 3 0 0 3 3
A19HS1EN01 English 3 0 0 3 3
A19ES1CS01 Programming through C 3 0 0 3 3
A19BS2CH01 Engineering Chemistry Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
English Language Communication Skills
A19HS2EN01 0 0 2 2 1
Laboratory
A19ES2CS01 Programming through C Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
A19ES2ME01 Workshop Practices 1 0 2 3 2
A19ES3CE01 Engineering Drawing for Civil Engineers 0 0 6 6 3
Total 13 1 14 28 21
A19MN6HS01 Induction Programme - - - - -
II SEMESTER A19
Contact
Course Code Title of the Course L T P/D Hours/ Credits
Week
A19BS1MT04 Linear Algebra and Advanced Calculus 3 0 0 3 3
A19BS1PH01 Applied Physics 3 0 0 3 3
A19ES1CS02 Data Structures through C 3 0 0 3 3
A19ES1CE01 Engineering Mechanics: Statics and Dynamics 3 1 0 4 4
A19ES1ME02 Elements of Mechanical Engineering 3 0 0 3 3
A19BS2PH01 Applied Physics Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
A19ES2CS02 Data Structures through C Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
A19PW4CE01 Design Sensitisation 0 0 2 2 1
Total 15 1 6 22 19
L – Lecture T – Tutorial P – Practical D – Drawing
1
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(A19BS1MT01) CALCULUS FOR ENGINEERS
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Differentiation, Integration
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To learn maximum and minimum value of a given function
• To learn Improper integrals using Beta and Gamma functions
• To learn methods of solving first order differential equations and learn about its
applications to basic engineering problems
• To learn methods of solving higher order differential equations and learn about its
applications to basic engineering problems
• To learn Laplace transforms of standard functions
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Solve problems involving Maxima and Minima
CO-2: Evaluate integrals using special functions
CO-3: Formulate and solve the problems of first and higher order differential
equations
CO-4: Apply knowledge of differential equations to real world problems
CO-5: Use Laplace and Inverse Laplace transform as a tool to solve the problems.
UNIT-I:
Functions of Finite Variables: Limits, Continuity, Partial differentiation, partial
derivatives of first and second order, Jacobian, Taylor’s theorem of two variables
(without proof). Maxima and Minima of two variables, Lagrange’s method of
undetermined Multipliers.
UNIT-II:
Improper Integrals: Definition of Improper Integrals, Beta functions: Properties and
other forms of beta functions (statements only) and problems.
Gamma functions: Properties of Gamma functions (statements only), Relation
between the Beta and Gamma functions (without proofs) and Evaluation of
improper integrals using Beta and Gamma functions.
UNIT-III:
First Order, First Degree ODE and its Applications: Differential equations of first order
and first degree - Exact differential equation , Linear and Bernoulli differential
equation , Applications of differential equations of first order and first degree -
Newton’s law of cooling, Law of natural growth and decay, Orthogonal trajectories.
UNIT-IV:
Second and Higher Order ODE with Constant Coefficients: Second order linear
differential equations with constant coefficients: Solution of Homogenous, non
ax
homogeneous differential equations, Non-Homogeneous terms of the type e , sin
(ax), cos (ax), polynomials in x, eax V(x), x V(x).
2
UNIT-V:
Ordinary Differential Equations with Variable Coefficients: Method of variation of
parameters; Equations reducible to linear ODE with constant Coefficients: Euler-
Cauchy equation, Legendre’s equation.
UNIT-VI:
Laplace Transforms: Laplace transforms, Existence condition, Laplace transform of
Elementary functions, Properties of Laplace transforms (Without Proofs), Laplace
transform of special functions (Unit step function, Dirac delta function and Periodic
function). Inverse Laplace transform and its properties, Convolution theorem
(without proof) ant its applications, Solving linear differential equations using Laplace
transform.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics, R. K. Jain and S. R. K. Iyengar, 5th Edition,
Narosa Publishing House, 2016
2. Higher Engineering Mathematics, B. V. Ramana, 33rd Reprint, McGraw Hill
Education (India) private Limited, 2018
3. Engineering Mathematics, N. P. Bali, 4th Edition, Laxmi Publications (P) Ltd., 2001
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics, Erwin Kreyszig, 9th Edition, John Wiley, 2011
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics, Peter ‘O’ Neil, 8th Edition, Cengage
Learning, 2011
3
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19BS1CH01) ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Basic knowledge of Mathematics and Chemistry
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To list out the importance of polymers, surfactants and lubricants in real world
scenario
• To outline the features of conventional and non-conventional sources of energy
• To discuss the problems of corrosion on structures to interpret the need of alloys
• To emphasize the importance of nanomaterials, analytical techniques,
environmental and green chemistry
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Identify & recognize the role of polymers, surfactants and lubricants in various
fields
CO-2: Rationalize ideas about alternate sources of energy so as to reduce load on
fossil fuels
CO-3: Summarise the effects of corrosion to indicate the use of alloys in various
metallic structures
CO-4: Familiarize with the role of nanomaterials, environmental & green chemistry
and assess the use of analytical techniques
UNIT-I:
Polymers: Polymers-Definition, types of polymerization-addition, condensation and
copolymerization, Properties of polymers- crystallinity, melting point and glass
transition, viscoelasticity, solubility of polymers. Fabrication of polymers (compression,
extrusion, blowing and thermoforming). Synthesis, properties and uses of PET, PTFE,
PMMA, polycarbonate, Bakelite and urea formaldehyde. Conducting polymers-
definition, classification and applications. FRPs and their applications.
UNIT-II:
Surfactants: Definition, cleaning mechanism, types of surfactants, micelles, reverse
micelles and critical micelle concentration.
Lubricants: Definition, types, mechanism of lubrication-thick film lubrication, thin film
lubrication and extreme pressure lubrication. Additives and selection of lubricants.
Properties-viscosity, cloud and pour point, flash and fire point, saponification
number-definition and significance.
UNIT-III:
Energy Science:
Fuels: Definition, classification, characteristics of a good fuel. Coal-proximate &
ultimate analysis-significance. Petroleum- refining, Cracking-definition, types of
cracking, fluid-bed cracking, knocking, octane number, cetane number. Alternative
and non-conventional sources of energy – solar, wind, geothermal, nuclear and
biomass (advantages and disadvantages).
4
Battery Technology: Features of batteries, Rechargeable batteries- lithium ion and
Zn-air batteries. Fuel cells-methanol-oxygen fuel cell.
UNIT-IV:
Corrosion: Introduction, causes and effects of corrosion, chemical and
electrochemical corrosion and mechanism of corrosion. Types-differential aeration
corrosion (Pitting and waterline corrosion), differential metal corrosion (Galvanic
corrosion). Factors affecting corrosion-nature of metal (position, passivity, purity,
areas of anode and cathode) & nature of environment (temperature, pH, humidity).
Corrosion control methods-proper designing, cathodic protection, differences
between galvanizing and tinning, paints-constituents and functions.
Alloys: Purpose of making alloys, classification of alloys, ferrous alloys ex: Steel, non-
ferrous alloys ex: Cu, Al, Pb (features and applications).
UNIT-V:
Nanomaterials and Analytical Techniques: Nanomaterials: Definition, synthesis-top
down and bottom up approaches. Properties and application of fullerenes and
carbon nanotubes. Applications of nanomaterials in electronics, catalysis,
telecommunication and medicine.
Analytical Techniques: Working principle and applications of pH-metry,
conductometry, colorimetry, chromatography (TLC), Scanning tunneling
microscope and atomic force microscope. Sensors: Lab-on-a-chip- features and
applications.
UNIT-VI:
Environmental and Green Chemistry: Air, water and noise pollution: sources and
effects, optimum levels of pollution. Solid waste management and e-waste: effects
and management.
Green Chemistry- definition, principles and applications of green chemistry. Self
healing materials-principle and applications.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Chemistry, P. C Jain and M. Jain, 16th Edition, Dhanpat Rai
Publications, New Delhi, 2016
2. Engineering Chemistry, Prasanta Rath, B. Rama Devi, Ch. Venkata Ramana
Reddy, Subhendu Chakroborty, 1st Edition, Cengage Publications, Delhi, 2019
3. A Textbook of Engineering Chemistry, Shashi Chawla, 3rd Edition, Dhanpat Rai
Publications, New Delhi, 2010
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Chemistry, S. S. Dara, 12th Edition, S. Chand & Company Ltd., New
Delhi, 2010
2. Engineering Chemistry, O. G. Palanna, Tata McGraw Hill Education Pvt. Ltd., New
Delhi, 2009
3. Engineering Chemistry, B. Sivasankar, Tata McGraw Hill Education Pvt. Ltd., New
Delhi, 2009
4. Introduction to Nanoscience, S. M. Lindsay, 2010
5. Introduction to Environmental Science, Y. Anjaneyulu, BS Publications,
Hyderabad, 2004
5
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19HS1EN01) ENGLISH
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To enhance their vocabulary through the use of affixes/stem and learn technical
vocabulary in specialist fields
• To read and comprehend different kinds of texts (tone, tenor, sound, sense,
diction, etc. - sub-skills)
• To write clear, concise, and correct sentences and paragraphs to produce
appropriate technical prose
• To recognize and practice use the rhetorical elements necessary for the
successful practice of scientific and technical communication
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Use vocabulary contextually and effectively
CO-2: Employ reading skills to comprehend different kinds of texts.(tone, tenor,
sound, sense, diction, etc. - sub-skills)
CO-3: Apply principles of critical thinking, problem solving, for clarity, conciseness
and accuracy of expression in academic and professional communication
CO-4: Demonstrate improved competence in Standard Written English, including
grammar, sentence and paragraph structure, coherence, and use this knowledge
to accurately communicate technical information
CO-5: Employ the appropriate rhetorical patterns of discourse in technical and
business contexts for scientific and technical communication
UNIT-I:
1. Reading: On the Conduct of Life by William Hazlitt
2. Grammar: Prepositions
3. Vocabulary: Word Formation (Affixation, Compounding,
Conversion, Blending, Borrowing)
4. Writing: Punctuation, Clauses and Sentences
5. Life Skills: Values and Ethics; ‘If’ by Rudyard Kipling
UNIT-II:
1. Reading: The Brook by Alfred Tennyson
2. Grammar: Articles
3. Vocabulary: Word Formation- (Prefixes, Suffixes, Root Words)
4. Writing: Principles of Good Writing-Coherence, Cohesion
5. Life Skills: Self Improvement; How I Became a Public Speaker by
G.B. Shaw
UNIT-III:
1. Reading: The Death Trap by Saki
2. Grammar: Noun-Pronoun Agreement; Subject-Verb Agreement
3. Vocabulary: Collocation
4. Writing: Transitional Devices & Paragraph Writing; Writing
Process
5. Life Skills: Time Management; On Saving Time by Seneca
6
UNIT – IV:
1. Reading: Chindu Yellamma
2. Grammar: Misplaced Modifiers
3. Vocabulary: Synonyms and Antonyms
4. Writing: Writing a Summary
5. Life Skills: Innovation; Muhammad Yunus
UNTI-V:
1. Reading: Politics and the English Language by George Orwell
2. Grammar: Cliches, Redundancies
3. Vocabulary: Common Abbreviations
4. Writing: Cause and Effect Paragraphs
5. Life Skills: Motivation; The Dancer with a White Parasol by
Ranjana Dave
UNIT-VI:
Organizational Patterns for writing
1. Patterns of Writing: Comparison and Contrast
2. Patterns of Writing : Classification Paragraph
3. Patterns of Writing: Problem-Solution Pattern of writing
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Language and Life: A Skills Approach, Orient Black Swan, 2018 ed.
REFERENCES:
1. Technical Communication, Raman, Meenakshi and Sharma, Sangeeta, 3rd
Edition, O U P, 2015
2. Communication Skills, Pushplata and Kumar Sanjay. O U P, 2015
3. Longman Dictionary of Common Errors, Turton N.D., and Heaton J.B, 1991
4. Practical English Usage, Swan, Michael. OUP, 1995
5. Remedial English Grammar, Wood, F.T. Macmillan Publications, 2007
7
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19ES1CS01) PROGRAMMING THROUGH C
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: None
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To relate basics of programming language constructs and problem solving
techniques
• To classify and implement control structures and derived data types
• To analyze and develop effective modular programming
• To construct mathematical problems and real time applications using C
language
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Understand fundamentals of computers and Illustrate the flowchart,
algorithm, pseudo code for a given problem, develop programs using various
datatypes and operators
CO-2: Develop conditional and iterative statements for a given problem
CO-3: Exercise on programs using arrays, pointers, dynamic memory management,
structures and unions
CO-4: Develop solution for a given problem using modular approach and perform
file handling
UNIT-I:
Introduction to Programming: Introduction to components of a computer system
(disks, memory, processor, where a program is stored and executed, operating
system, compilers etc.). Idea of Algorithm: steps to solve logical and numerical
problems. Representation of Algorithm: Flow chart / Pseudo code with examples.
From algorithms to programs; source code, variables (with data types) variables and
memory locations, syntax and logical errors in compilation, object and executable
code .Arithmetic expressions and precedence.
UNIT-II:
Conditional Branching and Loops: Writing and evaluation of conditionals and
consequent branching Iteration and loops
Arrays (1-D, 2-D), Character arrays and Strings.
UNIT-III:
Basic Algorithms: Searching (Linear and Binary), basic sorting algorithms (bubble,
insertion and selection), Pre-Processor directives.
UNIT-IV:
Functions: (Including using built in libraries), Parameter passing in functions, call by
value, passing arrays to functions: idea of call by reference.
Recursion: Recursion, as a different way of solving programs. Example programs,
such as finding factorial, GCD, Fibonacci series, Ackerman function.
8
UNIT-V:
Structures & Unions: Defining structures and array of structures, Unions, Typedef, Bit-
fields
Pointers: idea of pointers, defining pointers, use of pointers in self-referential
structures, notation of linked list (no implementation), dynamic memory allocation.
UNIT-VI:
File Handling: Basic concepts, text files and binary files, file input/output operations,
Error Handling in Files, random access of files, command line arguments.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. The C Programming Language, Brian W. Kernighan and Dennis M. Ritchie,
Prentice Hall of India
2. Schaum’s Outline of Programming with C, Byron Gottfried, McGraw-Hill
REFERENCES:
1. C: The Complete Reference, Herbert Schildt, IV Edition, McGraw-Hill
2. Let Us C, Yashvant Kanetkar, BPB Publications
3. Programming in ANSI C, E. Balaguruswamy, Tata McGraw-Hill
9
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Semester L T/P/D C
0 2 1
(A19BS2CH01) ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Basic knowledge of Volumetric Analysis and Mathematics
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To practically learn the preparation of standard solutions and estimate hardness
& chloride content so as to check its suitability for various purposes
• To determine the rate constant of a reaction and check the variation of
concentrations with respect to time
• To measure properties like adsorption, absorption of light, conductance, viscosity,
pH and surface tension
• To synthesize a polymer and to separate a mixture of organic compounds by Thin
Layer Chromatographic (TLC) technique
COURSE OUTCOMES: After the completion of the course, the student will be able to
CO-1: Record the amount of hardness and chloride content in water and interpret
the significance of its presence in water
CO-2: Analyze the influence of variation of concentration with time on rate constant
CO-3: Report and predict the significance of properties like absorption of light,
adsorption, conductance, viscosity, pH and surface tension
CO-4: Demonstrate the technique of Thin Layer Chromatographic (TLC) and
preparation of a polymer
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
1. Estimation of hardness of water by complexometric method using EDTA.
2. Determination of chloride content in the given sample water using
Argentometric method.
3. Determination of the rate constant of hydrolysis of ester.
4. Estimation of copper present in the given solution by colorimetric method.
5. Conductometric titration of Acid vs Base.
6. Determination of viscosity of sample oil by Redwood Viscometer-I.
7. Determination of pH of various sample solutions by pH meter.
8. Titration of Acid vs Base using pH metric method.
9. Determination of surface tension of a liquid by drop method using
Stalagmometer.
10. Determination of R value of organic compounds in a mixture by Thin Layer
f
Chromatography.
11. Synthesis of a Polymer-Bakelite/Nylon.
12. Verification of Freundlich/Langmuir isotherm for adsorption of acetic acid on
charcoal.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry, S. K. Bhasin and Sudha Rani,
Dhanpat Rai Publications
10
2. College Practical Chemistry, V. K. Ahluwalia, Sunitha Dhingra, Adargh Gulati,
University Press Pvt. Ltd.
3. Practical Chemistry, O. P. Pandey, D. N. Bajpai, and Dr. S. Giri, S. Chand
Publications
REFERENCES:
1. Vogel’s Text Book of Quantitative Chemical Analysis, G. N. Jeffery, J. Bassett, J.
Mendham and R. C. Denny, Longmann, ELBS
2. Advanced Practical Physical Chemistry, J. D. Yadav, Goel Publishing House
3. Practical Physical Chemistry, B. D. Khosla, R. Chand and Sons
11
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Semester L T/P/D C
0 2 1
(A19HS2EN01) ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To provide ample practice in LSRW skills and train the students in oral
presentations, public speaking, role play and situational dialogue
• To provide practice in vocabulary usage, grammatical construction, structural
patterns, and improve comprehension abilities in the students
• To train students to use neutral accent through phonetic sounds, symbols, stress
and intonation
• To enable students to transfer information from verbal to graphic representation
and vice versa
• To equip the learners to learn basic vocabulary of 3000 words (as identified in
Oxford or Cambridge dictionary)
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Comprehend spoken and written discourse
CO-2: Speak fluently with neutral accent and exhibit interpersonal skills
CO-3: Write accurately, coherently and lucidly making appropriate use of words
depending on context
CO-4: Introduce oneself to people and be able to speak extempore
CO-5: Learnt the basic vocabulary of 3000 words (as identified by
oxford/Cambridge advanced learners dictionary)
UNIT-I:
1. Introduction of Self and others
2. Study & Referencing Skills
UNIT-II:
1. Role play-
i) Expressing likes and dislikes;
ii) Agreeing and disagreeing
iii) Making requests ( Using modals for polite requests)
iv) Accepting and declining requests
2. Listening and note taking, Listening for details
3. Reading Skills – Skimming, Scanning, Intensive Reading and Extensive Reading
UNIT-III:
1. Extempore Speech: JAM
2. Accuracy in listening - Listening to discussion on specific issues
3. Pronunciation, Intonation, Stress and Rhythm
UNIT-IV:
1. Speaking Activity: Oral Presentation
2. Accuracy in listening- listening to discussion on specific issues
3. Reading Comprehension-Contextual Vocabulary
12
UNTI-V:
1. Speaking Activity: Book/Film Review
2. Reading Comprehension
3. Passive Voice-Constructing the impersonal passive
UNIT-VI:
1. Writing Skills: Information Transfer
2. Definition of a Technical Term
3. Description of a Mechanism/Process
REFERENCES:
1. Practical English Usage, Swan, Michael. 4th Edition OUP, 2017
2. Remedial English Grammar, F.T. Wood. BSC Publishers, 2014
3. Exercises in Spoken English, Parts. I-III. CIEFL, Hyderabad. Oxford University Press,
1997
4. Fowler’s Modern English Usage, R.W. Burchfield OUP, Oxford, 2004
13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Semester L T/P/D C
0 2 1
(A19ES2CS01) PROGRAMMING THROUGH C LABORATORY
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: None
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To gain a working knowledge of C programming to write modular, efficient and
readable C programs by Identifying the structural elements and layout of C
source code
• To declare and manipulate single and multi-dimensional arrays of the C data
types and derived data types like structures, unions
• To use functions from the portable C library and to describe the techniques for
creating program modules using functions and recursive functions
• To manipulate character strings in C programs. Utilize pointers to efficiently solve
problems
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Use various data types for a specified problem
CO-2: Design, implement, debug a given problem using appropriate language
constructs
CO-3: Implement programs using modular approach, file I/O
CO-4: Solve a given problem using C language
[The laboratory should be preceded or followed by a tutorial to explain the
approach or algorithm to be implemented for the problem given.]
WEEK1:
Familiarization with programming environment.
WEEK 2:
Simple computational problems using arithmetic expressions.
WEEK 3:
Problems involving if-then-else structures.
WEEK 4:
Iterative problems, sum of series.
WEEK 5:
1D Array manipulation.
WEEK 6:
Matrix problems, string operations.
14
WEEK 7:
Simple functions.
WEEK 8 AND WEEK 9:
Programming for solving searching and sorting techniques.
WEEK 10:
Recursive functions.
WEEK 11:
Pointers and structures.
WEEK 12:
File operations.
15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Semester L T/P/D C
1 2 2
(A19ES2ME01) WORKSHOP PRACTICES
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: None
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To know the different popular manufacturing process
• To gain a good basic working knowledge required for the production of various
engineering products
• To provide hands on experience about use of different engineering materials,
tools, equipments and processes those are common in the engineering field
• To identify and use marking out tools, hand tools, measuring equipment and to
work to prescribed tolerances
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Exposed to various types of manufacturing Process
CO-2: Fabricate/make components from wood, MS flat, GI Sheet etc. – hands on
experience
CO-3: Exposed to manufacturing of machine components like fasteners, holes &
threaded holes etc.
CO-4: Produce small devices / products /appliances by assembling different
components
LECTURES & VIDEOS:
1. Manufacturing Methods - Casting, Forming, Machining, Joining, Advanced
Manufacturing Methods
2. CNC Machining, Additive Manufacturing
3. Fitting Operations & Power Tools
4. Electrical & Electronics
5. Carpentry
6. Plastic Moulding, Glass Cutting
7. Welding (Arc Welding & Gas Welding), Brazing
8. Power Tools
9. Printed Circuit Boards
I. Carpentry
i. Cross lap joint
ii. Mortise & tenon joint
II. Fitting
i. Square fitting
ii. L-Fitting
III. Welding
i. Butt joint by arc welding
ii. Lap joint by arc welding
16
IV. Smithy
i. Making of Rectangular Tray from sheet metal.
ii. Making of U shaped component by black smithy
V. Electrical & Electronics
i. Single lamp connection & Stair case connection
ii. Translation of any tested / designed and tested circuits on a PCB.
VI. Machine Shop
i. Step turning on lathe
ii. Drilling & threading
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Workshop Manual, P. Kannaiah and K. L. Narayana, 3rd Edition, Scitech, 2015
2. Elements of Workshop Technology Vol.1 & 2, S. K. Hajra Choudhury, A. K. Hajra
Choudhury and Nirjhar Roy, 13th Edition, Media Promoters & Publishers Pvt. Ltd.,
2010
3. Printed Circuit Boards - Design, Fabrication, Assembly and Testing, R. S. Khandpur,
Tata McGraw-Hill Education, 2005
REFERENCES:
1. Manufacturing Engineering and Technology, Serope Kalpakjian, Steven R.
Schmid, 4th Edition, Pearson Education India Edition, 2002
2. Manufacturing Technology-I, S. Gowri, P. Hariharan and A. Suresh Babu, Pearson
Education, 2008
3. Processes and Materials of Manufacture, Roy A. Lindberg, 4th Edition, Prentice
Hall India, 1998
4. Manufacturing Technology Vol-1 & 2, P. N. Rao, Tata McGraw-Hill House, 2017
17
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Semester L T/P/D C
0 6 3
(A19ES3CE01) ENGINEERING DRAWING FOR CIVIL ENGINEERS
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To learn basic AutoCAD skills
• To learn various curves used in engineering practice, orthographic projections
and projection of planes & solids
• To learn Sections and Sectional views of prisms, pyramids, cylinders and cones
• To learn Isometric projections, transformation of Projections & Perspective
Projections
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Draw various types of scales, various curves used in engineering practice
using AutoCAD
CO-2: Draw orthographic projections and sectional views of planes and solids
CO-3: Draw development of surfaces of solids prisms, pyramids, cylinders and cones
CO-4: Draw isometric projection and transformation of projections & perspective
Projections
UNIT-I:
Introduction to Engineering Drawing: Principles of engineering graphics and their
significance. – Size of drawing sheets, Types of lines, lettering, Dimensioning, Title
block - Drawing instruments and their uses - Different types of scales, scale of chords
Introduction to Auto CAD: User Interface – Menu system – Different types of file
formats – setting up a drawing space – coordinate systems – tool bars (draw, modify,
annotations, layers etc) – status bar (ortho, grid, snap, iso etc) – display control
commands (pan, zoom etc) – printing setup.
UNIT-II:
Curves used in Engineering Practice: Conic Sections – Construction of Ellipse,
Parabola, Hyperbola & Rectangular hyperbola – General Method only.
Principles of Orthographic Projections: Introduction – First angle projection – Third
angle projection. Projection of Points. Projection of straight lines inclined to both
planes by first angle projection method.
UNIT-III:
Projection of Planes: Projections of regular Planes – planes parallel to one and
perpendicular to other plane, planes perpendicular to one and inclined to the
other, planes inclined to both planes - Auxiliary Projections.
Projection of solids: Projections of Regular Solids - inclined to one and inclined to
both the planes - Auxiliary Projections.
UNIT-IV:
Sections of Right Regular Solids: Sections of right regular solids - prisms, pyramids,
cylinders and cones. Sections of solids cut by planes parallel to one plane and
perpendicular to other plane and Oblique plane.
18
UNIT-V:
Isometric Projections: Principles of isometric projections, Isometric scale, isometric
views, conventions, isometric views of lines, planes, simple solids.
Transformation of Projections: Conversion of isometric views to orthographic views-
conventions and vice versa.
Perspective Projections: Perspective view of points, lines, plane figures and simple
solids, vanishing point method & visual ray method.
UNIT-VI:
Sign Conventions: Brick, Stone, Sand filling, Mortar, Concrete, Glass, Steel, Aluminium,
Earth, Rock and Timber, doors and windows.
Introduction to Line Plan and Sectional Plan of Buildings: Introduction to Building
Information Modeling (BIM)
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Drawing, N. D. Bhatt, 5th Edition, Charotar Publishing House Pvt. Ltd,
2016
2. Engineering Drawing, Basant Agrawal, 2nd Edition, McGraw Hill Education (India)
Pvt. Ltd, 2014
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Drawing with AutoCAD, K. Venkata Reddy, 4th Edition, B. S.
Publications, 2009
2. Civil Engineering Drawing-I, N. Sreenivasulu, S. Rama Rao, Revised Edition,
Radiant Publishing House, 2017
3. Engineering Drawing, M. B. Shah, 2nd Edition, Pearson Education India, 2011
4. Engineering Drawing and Graphics, K. Venugopal, 4th Edition, New Age
International, 2007
19
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19BS1MT04) LINEAR ALGEBRA AND ADVANCED CALCULUS
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Matrices, Differentiation, Integration
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To learn rank of the matrix and its application to consistency of system of linear
equations
• To learn Eigen Values and Eigen Vectors
• To learn nature of Quadratic forms
• To learn evaluation of multiple integrals and their applications
• To learn basic properties of vector point function and their applications to line,
surface and volume integrals
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Compute the rank of a matrix and analyze the solution of a system of linear
equations
CO-2: Calculate Eigen values and Eigen vectors
CO-3: Reduce the quadratic form to its canonical form
CO-4: Evaluate areas & volumes using multiple integrals
CO-5: Transform line integral to surface and surface to volume integrals
UNIT-I:
Matrices: Rank of a matrix by Echelon form and Normal form, Inverse of Non-singular
matrices by Gauss-Jordan method; System of linear equations; Consistency of
Homogeneous and Non-Homogeneous equations, LU Decomposition method.
UNIT-II:
Eigen Values and Eigen Vectors: Eigen values and eigenvectors and their properties,
Diagonalization of matrices; Cayley-Hamilton Theorem (without proof), finding
inverse and power of a matrix by Cayley-Hamilton Theorem.
UNIT-III:
Real & Complex Matrices, Quadratic forms: Types of Matrices, Symmetric; Hermitian;
Skew-Symmetric; Skew-Hermitian; orthogonal matrices; Unitary Matrices and its
properties; Quadratic forms and Nature of the Quadratic Forms, Reduction of
Quadratic form to canonical form using Linear Transformation and Orthogonal
Transformations.
UNIT-IV:
Multiple Integrals: Evaluation of Double Integrals (Cartesian and polar coordinates);
change of order of integration (only Cartesian form), Change of variables (Cartesian
to polar); Evaluation of Triple Integrals, Change of variables (Cartesian to Spherical
and Cylindrical polar coordinates) for triple integrals. Applications: Areas (by double
integrals) and volumes (by double integrals and triple integrals).
20
UNIT-V:
Vector Differential Calculus: Vector point functions and scalar point functions.
Gradient and Directional derivatives, Divergence and Solenoidal vectors, Curl and
Irrotational vectors, Scalar potential functions, Tangent plane and normal line.
Vector Identities (without proofs).
UNIT-VI:
Vector Integral Calculus: Line, Surface and Volume Integrals and their problems.
Green’s theorem in a plane, Gauss-Divergence theorem and Stokes theorem
(without proofs) and their problems.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics, R. K. Jain and S. R. K. Iyengar, 5th Edition,
Narosa Publishing House, 2016
2. Higher Engineering Mathematics, B. V. Ramana, 33rd Reprint, McGraw Hill
Education (India) private Limited, 2018
3. Engineering Mathematics, N. P. Bali, 4th Edition, Laxmi Publications (P) Ltd., 2001
REFERENCES:
1. Linear Algebra and its Applications, Gilbert Strang, 4th Edition, Cengage Learning,
2014
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics, Erwin Kreyszig, 9th Edition, John Wiley, 2011
3. Linear Algebra: A Modern Introduction, D. Poole, 4th Edition, Cengage Learning,
2017
21
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19BS1PH01) APPLIED PHYSICS
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: 10+2 Physics
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To apply various phenomena of light- Interference and Diffraction
• To apply the basic principles of lasers for various laser systems and optical fibers
• To interpret basic structures
• To analyze polarization mechanisms in dielectrics
• To discuss the magnetic and superconducting properties of materials
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Extend the importance of Interference in thin films and Fraunhofer diffraction
CO-2: Explain the lasing action of various laser sources and describe propagation of
light through optical fiber
CO-3: Identify different types of crystals and importance of X-ray studies in crystals
CO-4: Analyze the frequency dependence of different polarizabilities
CO-5: Illustrate applications of magnetic materials and superconductors
UNIT-I:
Wave Optics: Superposition Principle, Coherence, Interference of light by wave front
splitting and amplitude splitting; Interference in thin films by reflection, Newton’s rings
experiment by reflection- Calculation of wavelength, Fraunhofer diffraction
(Qualitative treatment) from a single slit, Double slit diffraction, Diffraction grating
and a circular aperture.
UNIT-II:
Lasers: Introduction, Characteristics of Lasers, Spontaneous and Stimulated Emission
of Radiation, Meta Stable State, Population Inversion, Lasing Action, Einstein’s
Coefficients and Relation between Them, Ruby Laser, Helium-Neon Laser,
Semiconductor Laser, Application of Lasers in Science, Engineering and Medicine.
UNIT-III:
Optical Fibers: Principle of optical fiber (Total Internal Reflection) – Acceptance
angle and acceptance cone – Numerical aperture –Types of fibers and refractive
index profiles – Qualitative analysis of attenuation in optical fibers –Application of
optical fibers: Optical fiber communication system.
UNIT-IV:
Crystal Structures and XRD: Space lattice, Unit cell, Lattice parameters, Crystal
systems, Bravais lattice, Atomic radius, Co-ordination number, Structures and
Packing fractions of Simple Cubic, Body Centered Cubic, Face Centered Cubic,
Miller Indices for Crystal planes and directions, Inter planar spacing of orthogonal
crystal systems, Diffraction of X-rays by crystal planes and Bragg’s law, Powder
method, Applications of XRD.
22
UNIT-V:
Dielectric Properties: Electric dipole, Dipole moment, Dielectric constant, Electronic,
Ionic polarizations and calculation of their polarizabilities, Orientation Polarization
(qualitative), Frequency dependence of Polarization- Internal fields, Claussius –
Mossotti equation, Piezo and Ferro electricity.
UNIT-VI:
Magnetic Materials and Superconductors: Permeability, Field intensity, magnetic
field induction, Magnetization and Magnetic susceptibility – Origin of magnetic
moment, Bohr magneton – Classification of magnetic materials (Dia, Para and
Ferro)- Domain theory of ferromagnetism, Hysteresis curve – Soft and Hard magnetic
materials – Ferrites and their applications, Superconductivity phenomenon, Meissner
effect, Critical fields and Persistent currents, Type I and Type II superconductors,
Applications of Superconductors.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Physics, Resnick, Halliday and Krane, 5th Edition, Wiley, 2014
2. Engineering Physics, R. K. Gaur and S. L. Gupta, Dhanpar Rai Publications, 2012
3. Engineering Physics, B. K. Pandey and S. Chaturvedi, Cengage Learning, 2014
REFERENCES:
1. A Textbook of Engineering Physics, M. N. Avadhanulu and P. G. Kshirsagar, S.
Chand Publishers, 2010
2. Optics, A. Ghatak, 6th Edition, McGraw Hill Education, 2017
3. Applied Physics, P. K. Mittal, 2nd Edition, IK International Publishing House Pvt. Ltd,
2008
4. Introduction to Solid State Physics, Charles Kittel, 8th Edition, Wiley, 2012
5. Engineering Physics, P. K. Palanisamy, 3rd Edition, Scitech, 2013
23
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19ES1CS02) DATA STRUCTURES THROUGH C
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To summarize efficient storage mechanisms of data for an easy access
• To familiarize concepts of various linear data structures
• To introduce concept of non-linear data structures
• To develop applications using data structures
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Find time complexity notations for various sorting techniques
CO-2: Implement the operations of creation, insertion, deletion on linear data
structures
CO-3: Apply the operations of creation, insertion, deletion on non-linear data
structures
CO-4: Develop the applications using data structure concepts
UNIT-I:
Data Structures: Introduction to data structures, abstract data types. Asymptotic
notations, Merge sort, Quick Sort, Radix sort.
UNIT-II:
Linked List: Singly linked list implementation, insertion, deletion and searching
operations on linear list, circular linked list implementation
Double linked list implementation, insertion, deletion and searching operations.
Applications of Linked Lists – Polynomial addition and subtraction.
UNIT-III:
Stacks: Operations, array and linked representations of stacks, stack applications-
infix to postfix conversion, postfix expression evaluation, Towers of Hanoi recursive
implementation.
UNIT-IV:
Queues: operations, array and linked representations of queues. Circular queue
operations, dequeue operations.
UNIT-V:
Trees: Definitions, binary tree representation, binary search tree, binary tree
traversals- Preorder, Inorder, Post order.
UNIT-VI:
Graphs: Definitions, graph representations, spanning tree, graph traversals- BFS and
DFS.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. C Programming & Data Structures, B. A. Forouzan and R. F. Gilberg, Third Edition,
Cengage Learning
24
2. Data Structures Using C (Paperback), Aaron M. Tenenbaum
REFERENCES:
1. C & Data Structures, P. Padmanabham, Third Edition, B. S. Publications
2. Data Structures using C, A. M. Tanenbaum, Y. Langsam, and M. J. Augenstein,
Pearson Education
3. C Programming & Data Structures, E. Balagurusamy, TMH
4. C Programming & Data Structures, P. Dey, M. Ghosh, R. Thereja, Oxford University
Press
5. C & Data Structures, E. V. Prasad and N. B. Venkateswarlu, S. Chand & Co.
25
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(A19ES1CE01) ENGINEERING MECHANICS: STATICS AND DYNAMICS
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Mathematics, Physics
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To understand, analyze the forces and moment systems for equilibrium
• To know the concept of centroid and area moment of inertia about any axes
• To distinguish between statics and dynamics & kinematics and kinetics
• To understand the work-energy principle and impulse-momentum principle
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Analyze the systems using equilibrium conditions and apply the concepts of
mechanics to engineering applications
CO-2: Determine the centroid of composite areas and moment of inertia of
composite areas
CO-3: Solve the kinematics and kinetics problems.
CO-4: Apply work-energy principle, impulse-momentum principle to solve
engineering problems
UNIT-I:
Forces: Introduction to Engineering Mechanics – Basic concepts - Classification of a
force system - Parallelogram law of forces - Triangle law of forces - Polygon law of
forces – Law of transmissibility of forces – Principle of superposition – Lami’s theorem -
Free Body Diagram – Resultant – Equilibrant - Resultant of coplanar concurrent
forces - Equations of Equilibrium of Coplanar Systems - Static indeterminacy
Moments: Moment of a force – Varignon’s principle - Parallel forces - Resultant of
parallel forces – Couple - Moment of a couple about any point lying in the plane -
Resolution of a force into a force-couple and vice-versa - Resultant of coplanar non-
concurrent forces – Determinate beams – Cantilever beams – Simply supported
beams – Over hanging beams – Subjected to concentrated loads and uniformly
distributed loads – Determination of Support reactions.
UNIT-II:
Friction: Types of Friction - Limiting friction - Laws of friction - Equilibrium of bodies on
rough horizontal and inclined planes - Equilibrium of connected bodies on rough
horizontal and inclined planes – Ladder friction.
UNIT-III:
Centroid & Centre of Gravity: Introduction - Centroid - Centroids of lines, areas and
volumes – Centroids of composite areas - Centre of gravity of bodies – Pappu’s
theorems.
UNIT-IV:
Area Moment of Inertia: Introduction - Inertia - Inertia of areas - Rotation of areas -
Radius of gyration - Polar moment of inertia - Parallel axis theorem - Perpendicular
26
axis theorem - Moments of inertia of standard sections and composite sections -
Introduction to Product of inertia.
UNIT-V:
Kinematics of Particles: Kinematics of particles – Rectilinear motion – Curvilinear
motion – Projectiles.
Kinetics of Particles: Kinetics of particles – Newton’s Second Law – Differential
equations of rectilinear and curvilinear motion – Dynamic equilibrium – Inertia force –
D. Alembert’s Principle applied for rectilinear and curvilinear motion.
UNIT-VI:
Work - Energy Principle: Equation of translation, principle of conservation of energy,
work - energy principle applied to particle motion and connected systems, fixed axis
rotation.
Impulse – Momentum Principle: Introduction, linear impulse momentum, principle of
conservation of linear momentum, elastic impact and types of impact, loss of kinetic
energy, co efficient of restitution.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Mechanics, S. Timoshenko, D. H. Young, J. V. Rao and Sukumar Pati,
5th Edition, McGraw Hill Higher Education, 2017
2. Singers Engineering Mechanics (Statics and Dynamics), K. Vijaya Kumar Reddy &
J. Suresh kumar, 3rd Edition, B. S. Publications, 2011
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Mechanics, J. L. Meriam & L. G. Kraige & J. N. Bolton, Wiley India
Edition, Wiley Publishers, 2017
2. Engineering Mechanics: Dynamics, J.L.Meriam, L.G.Kraige and J.N.Bolton, Wiley
India Edition, Wiley Publishers, 2018
3. Engineering Mechanics, R. C. Hibbeler, 14 th Edition, Pearson Education, 2017
4. Engineering Mechanics: Statics and Dynamics, A.K.Tayal, 14th Edition, Umesh
Publications, 2013
5. Problems and Solutions in Engineering Mechanics, S.S. Bhavikatti & A. Vittal
Hedge, 2nd Edition, New Age International (P) limited publishers, 2016
27
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19ES1ME02) ELEMENTS OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To apply the basic concepts of Thermodynamics, Thermodynamic laws, concept
of power cycles and IC engines
• To apply the principles of Steam Power plant, Boiler, Steam Turbines and Gas
turbine
• To know the principles of operation of different types of hydraulic machinery
and Refrigeration & Air conditioning systems
• Understand about Foundry, Welding, Mechanical working, Press working
operations
• Remember the principle of working of lath machine, shaper, drilling, milling,
grinding and NC & CNC machine tools
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Acquire the knowledge of Thermodynamics, Thermodynamic laws, concept
of power cycles, IC engines Steam Power plant, Boiler, Steam Turbines and Gas
turbine
CO-2: Understand the knowledge on Principles of operation of different types of
Hydraulic machinery and Refrigeration & Air conditioning systems
CO-3: Know the importance of Foundry, Welding, Mechanical working, Press working
operations
CO-4: Identify various cutting tools and decide the sequence of operations for lathe
machine, shaper, drilling, milling, grinding and NC & CNC machine tools operations
UNIT-I:
Thermodynamics: Basic concepts of Thermodynamics, Property of gases, Zeroth
Law. First Law of Thermodynamics and its applications, Second Law of
Thermodynamics, Carnot cycle, Air standard cycles – Otto, Diesel Cycles.
Internal Combustion Engines: Internal combustion engines, definition, classification,
components, working of two- stroke, four stroke cycle engines, SI and CI Engines.
UNIT-II:
Steam Power Plant, Boiler, Steam Turbines: Layout of steam power plant, Water tube
and Fire tube Boilers:- “Cochron”, Babcock and Wilcox Boiler and High Pressure
Boilers. (Benson & La-mount only).
Steam Turbines: Classification, Impulse & Reaction Turbines
Gas Turbine-Power Plants: Classification of gas turbines, Closed & Open cycle types
UNIT- III:
Hydraulic Pumps & Turbines: Centrifugal Pumps, Pelton wheel, Francis turbine and
Kaplan Turbine -- Layout of Hydro electric power plant
Refrigeration & Air Conditioning Systems: Description of Vapour Compression and
Vapour Absorption systems, Classification of air conditioning systems, working
principles.
28
UNIT-IV:
Foundry Practice: Patterns, Moulding and Moulding materials, casting methods-Sand
Casting, Shell mould Casting, Investment Casting, Die Casting ,Centrifugal casting –
Principle and Application of these processes
Welding: Types of Welding- Electric Arc welding - Coated electrode, TIG welding &
MIG welding, Gas welding and cutting, Resistance welding- Spot welding, Soldering
and Brazing.
UNIT-V:
Mechanical Working: Hot and Cold working, Rolling, Types of Rolling mills, Forging-
operations, forging methods, Extrusion-methods, Metal Spinning and Wire Drawing
Press Working Operations: Cutting, Bending, Drawing and Squeezing
UNIT-VI:
Machine Tools: Construction of lathe, shaper, drilling, milling, grinding and NC & CNC
machine tools-Advantages, Machine controls.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Elements of Mechanical Engineering, M. L. Mathur, 13th Edition, Jain Brothers, 2016
2. Elements of Mechanical Engineering, R. K. Rajput, 7th Edition, Laxmi Publications,
2014
REFERENCES:
1. Elements of Mechanical Engineering, P. N. Gupta, Standard Publishers
Distributors, 2011
2. Elements of Mechanical Engineering, S. Trymbaka Murthy, I. K. International
Publishing House, Pvt. Ltd., 2011
29
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Semester L T/P/D C
0 2 1
(A19BS2PH01) APPLIED PHYSICS LABORATORY
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To practically learn interaction of light with matter through physical phenomena
like interference, diffraction and dispersion
• To understand the periodic motion and formation of standing waves and know
the characteristics of the capacitors and resistors
• To experience the mechanical oscillations and resonance phenomena
• To verify Biot –Savart law
• To compare the experimental results with the class room learning
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Demonstrate the optical phenomena with formation of Newton Rings, pure
spectrum through prism and to evaluate grating parameters
CO-2: Illustrate periodic motion by measuring rigidity modulus of a material and also
discharging of a capacitor
CO-3: Differentiate resonance phenomenon in Melde’s experiment and Sonometer
experiment
CO-4: Realize tangent law of magnetism
CO-5: Correlate the experimental results with the class room learning
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
1. Spectrometer: To determine the dispersive power of given prism using
spectrometer
2. Diffraction Grating: To determine the wavelength of given laser and grating
parameters
3. Diffraction at Single Slit: To determine the width of given wire.
4. Newton’s Rings Experiment: To determine the radius of curvature of given plano
convex lens
5. Optical fiber: Numerical aperture and acceptance angle of an optical fiber.
6. Torsional pendulum: To determine the rigidity modulus of a given wire
7. Melde’s experiment: To determine the frequency of electrical vibrator using
resonance phenomenon
8. AC frequency by Sonometer: To measure frequency of A.C mains
9. RC Circuit: To determine the time constant of RC circuit
10. Stewart Gee’s experiment: To verify Biot - Savart’s law
11. Solar Cell: To study the V-I characteristics of Solar cell
12. Light Emitting Diode: To study the V-I characteristics of LED
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Physics, Laboratory Manual/Observation, Faculty of Physics,
VNRVJIET
2. Laboratory Manual of Engineering Physics by Y. Aparna & K. Venkateswara Rao,
VGS Publications
30
3. Engineering Physics Practicals, B. Srinivasa Rao, Keshava Vamsi Krishna and K. S.
Rudramamba, Second Edition, Laxmi Publications Pvt. Ltd, University Science
Press
31
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Semester L T/P/D C
0 2 1
(A19ES2CS02) DATA STRUCTURES THROUGH C LABORATORY
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To impart the implementation of data structures such as linked lists, stacks and
queue
• To introduce the various advanced data structures such as tree traversals
• To analyze the sorting algorithms
• To teach the various graph traversal algorithms
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Analyze the algorithms to determine the time and space complexities
CO-2: Implement the linear data structures like stacks, queues and linked lists
CO-3: Evaluate the non-linear data structures like Trees and graphs
CO-4: Predict the tree and graph traversing techniques
WEEK 1:
1. Merge Sort
WEEK 2:
2. Quick Sort
3. Radix Sort
WEEK 3:
4. SLL creation, insertion, deletion, searching, display operations.
WEEK 4:
5. CLL creation, insertion, deletion, searching, display operations.
WEEK 5:
6. DLL creation, insertion, deletion, searching, display operations.
WEEK 6:
7. STACK operations using arrays and Linked List.
WEEK 7:
8. Infix to postfix conversion.
WEEK 8:
9. Postfix evaluation.
10. Towers of Hanoi problem
WEEK 9:
11. QUEUE operations using arrays and LL.
WEEK 10:
12. CIRCULAR QUEUE operations using arrays.
32
WEEK 11:
13. DEQUEUE operations using arrays.
WEEK 12:
14. Binary tree traversals using recursion.
WEEK 13:
15. Graph traversals (BFS and DFS).
33
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Semester L T/P/D C
0 2 1
(A19PW4CE01) DESIGN SENSITISATION
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: None
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To create awareness of design among students of engineering
• To teach a systematic approach to identifying and defining a problem before
brainstorming for a solution
• To instill a sense of significance towards applying creativity to product and
service design
• To motivate students to apply design thinking while implementing a project
focusing on local or global societal problems
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Identify design principles from an engineering perspective
CO-2: Cultivate sensitivity towards design aspects of Activities, Environments,
Interactions, Objects, and Users (A-E-I-O-U) in daily life
CO-3: Validate problem statements through user empathisation with societal and
environmental consciousness
CO-4: Devise visual design and documentation to communicate more effectively
CO-5: Develop project management skills in a multidisciplinary environment
STUDENTS’ RESPONSIBILITIES:
1. Forming diverse teams of 3–5 members each to work collaboratively throughout
the semester.
2. Proactively engaging to observe the objects and interactions in their daily life
and society from a design perspective.
3. Identifying general societal and social problems that may be effectively
addressed using design thinking principles
4. Presenting and reporting the tasks to the concerned faculty members using their
creative communication and people skills.
MODULE-1: Design Overview and Motivation
Design is Everywhere – Various perspectives including history; Design Vocabulary;
Design in Indian Context; Art and Design; Importance of Design in Career
MODULE-2: Understanding Design
Design Engineering vs. Engineering Design; Good and Bad Design — Case Studies
Introduction to the Design Double Diamond: Discover-Define-Develop-Deliver;
Importance of user-centricity for design
34
MODULE-3: Doing Design: Discover Phase
Looking for problems: SDGs; Identifying Stakeholders and Defining User Personas;
User Empathisation and Tools; Data collection from users and for users: Surveys,
Questionnaires, Statistics, Interactions
Need Analysis: Types of Users, Types of Needs; Market Size; Value Proposition to the
Users; Identifying Addressable Needs and Touchpoints; Data Validation; Structuring
Need Statements
MODULE-4: Designing Customer Service Experience
Enhancing Customer Experience in Services through Innovation and Design Thinking;
Service Development Process and Case Studies; Service Experience Cycle and Case
Studies
MODULE-5: Communication Skills for Design
Communicating using various media to express an idea in print, electronic, mobile,
web, and social media: Visuals, Text, Voice and Audio, Infographics
General Guidelines for a Good Presentation: Target Audience, Slideshow Templates,
Appropriate Visual Elements and Aesthetics, Typography, Presentation Styles,
Guidelines
General Guidelines for a Good Report: Documentation Classification, Standards,
Styles, and Templates
MODULE-6: Sustainable Design Approaches
Concern for Environment and Sustainability in Design, Case Studies to understand
good Design For Environment (DFE) Decisions; Design Considerations in the five
stages of the Product Life Cycle
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Change by Design, Tim Brown, Harper Business, 2012 (ISBN: 978-0062337382)
2. The Design of Everyday Things, Donald A. Norman, MIT Press, 2013 (ISBN: 978-
0262525671)
3. Complete Design Thinking Guide for Successful Professionals, Daniel Ling,
CreateSpace Independent Publishing, 2015 (ISBN: 978-1514202739)
REFERENCES:
1. Design As Art, Bruno Munari, Penguin UK, 2009 (ISBN: 978-0141035819)
2. The Art of Innovation, HarperCollins Business, Tom Kelly, Jonathan Littman, 2002
(ISBN: 978-0007102938)
3. Design Thinking: Integrating Innovation, Customer Experience, and Brand Value,
Thomas Lockwood, Allworth Press, 2009 (ISBN: 978-1581156683)
4. Responsible Innovation: Ethics, Safety and Technology,Joost Groot Kromelink,
2nd ed., TU Delft, Faculty of Technology, Policy and Management, 2019 (e-Book
ISBN: 978-9463662024)
5. Design Thinking for Startups: A Handbook for Readers and Workbook for
Practitioners, Jimmy Jain, Notion Press, 2018 (ISBN: 978-1642495034)
35
