SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/A19/CE2.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY HYDERABAD
B.TECH. II YEAR
(CIVIL ENGINEERING)
III SEMESTER A19
Contact
Course Code Title of the Course L T P/D Hours/ Credits
Week
A19BS1MT12 Probability, Statistics and Time Series 3 0 0 3 3
A19PC1CE01 Strength of Materials - I 3 0 0 3 3
A19PC1CE02 Fluid Mechanics 3 1 0 4 4
A19PC1CE03 Building Materials, Construction and Planning 3 0 0 3 3
A19PC1CE04 Surveying and Geomatics 3 0 0 3 3
A19PC2CE01 Strength of Materials Laboratory 0 0 3 3 1.5
A19PC2CE02 Surveying Laboratory 0 0 3 3 1.5
A19PC3CE01 Computer Aided Civil Engineering Drawing 0 0 2 2 1
Total 15 1 8 24 20
IV SEMESTER A19
Contact
Course Code Title of the Course L T P/D Hours/ Credits
Week
A19PC1CE05 Strength of Materials - II 3 0 0 3 3
A19PC1CE06 Structural Analysis 3 1 0 4 4
A19PC1CE07 Concrete Technology 3 0 0 3 3
A19PC1CE08 Hydraulic Engineering and Hydraulic Machines 3 0 0 3 3
Elements of Electrical and Electronics
A19ES1EE07 3 0 0 3 3
Engineering
Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulic Machines
A19PC2CE03 0 0 3 3 1.5
Laboratory
A19PC2CE04 Concrete Laboratory 0 0 3 3 1.5
Elements of Electrical and Electronics
A19ES2EE06 0 0 2 2 1
Engineering Laboratory
Total 15 1 8 24 20
A19MN6HS03 Gender Sensitization 0 0 2 2 0
L – Lecture T – Tutorial P – Practical D – Drawing
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19BS1MT12) PROBABILITY, STATISTICS AND TIME SERIES
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Permutations and combinations, basic statistics
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To know elementary ideas in basic probability
• To learn different types of probability distribution functions
• To know methods of calculating correlation and regression
• To know various methods to test the hypothesis
• To introduce the notion of time series and its utility in engineering applications
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Solve problems involving basic probability
CO-2: Evaluate statistical parameters of different probability distributions
CO-3: Calculate correlation, regression, rank correlation coefficients
CO-4: Apply the knowledge of different probability distributions to Test of Hypothesis
CO-5: Use Least squares method to compute time series
UNIT – I:
Basic Probability: Sample space and events, Probability- The axioms of probability,
some elementary theorems, conditional probability, Baye’s theorem. Random
variables - discrete and continuous distributions - Expectation of Discrete Random
Variables, Moments, Variance of a sum.
UNIT – II:
Probability Distributions: Probability distributions: Binomial, Poisson and Normal -
evaluation of statistical parameters for these three distributions –related properties.
UNIT – III:
Correlation and Regression: Coefficient of correlation, regression coefficient, the lines
of regression, rank correlation
UNIT – IV:
Testing of Hypothesis - Large Sample: Sampling distributions, Tests of hypothesis - null
hypothesis, alternate hypothesis, type I, type II errors, critical region. Inferences
concerning means and proportions- Large samples- test of hypothesis for single mean
and difference between the means. Test of hypothesis for the proportions- single and
difference between the proportions, confidence interval for the mean and
proportions.
UNIT – V:
Tests of Significance - Small Samples: Tests of significance-t distributions, confidence
interval for the t- distribution, F-distributions and Chi square distributions.
UNIT – VI:
Time Series: Time series- utility of time series analysis, components of time series.
Preliminary adjustments before analyzing time series. Measurement of trend by the
method of least squares, method of moments.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics, Erwin Kreyszig, 9th Edition, John Wiley & Sons,
2006
2. Probability and Statistics for Engineers, Richard A. Johanson, 5th Edition, Prentice-
Hall, 1995
3. Introduction to Probability Theory, P. G. Hoel, S. C. Port and C. J. Stone, Universal
Book Stall, 2003
REFERENCES:
1. Statistical Methods, S. P. Gupta, 2011, Sultan Chand and Sons
2. A Textbook of Engineering Mathematics, N. P. Bali and Manish Goyal, Laxmi
Publications, 2010
3. Higher Engineering Mathematics, B. S. Grewal, 35th Edition, Khanna Publishers, 2000
4. Applied Statistics for Engineers, Jay L. Devore, Nicholas. R. Famum, Jimmy A. Doi,
3rd Edition, Cengage learning
5. The Analysis of Time Series -An Introduction, Chris Chatfield, 6th Edition, CRC Press
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1CE01) STRENGTH OF MATERIALS – I
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To define various types of stresses and strains
• To understand the concept of shear force and bending moment
• To draw the bending stress and shear stress distribution across various cross-sections
• To distinguish between various methods of determining the slopes and deflections
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Determine the stresses and strains in determinate and indeterminate systems
CO-2: Draw the shear force and bending moment diagrams in determinate beams
CO-3: Apply the bending stress and shear stress formulae for the design of beams
CO-4: Determine the slopes and deflections due to various types of loads in
determinate beams
UNIT – I:
Simple Stresses and Strains : Mechanical properties of solids – Elasticity, Plasticity,
Ductility, Brittleness, Malleability, Toughness, Hardness - Stress, Strain - Hooke‟s law –
Types of Stresses and Strains – Stress-Strain curves for ductile and brittle materials –
Principle of superposition - Bars of varying sections – Bar of tapering section - Working
stress – Factor of safety – Lateral Strain – Poisson‟s Ratio - Volumetric Strain – Elastic
moduli - Relationship between different Elastic moduli.
UNIT – II:
Statically Indeterminate Systems: Members subjected to self-weight acting axially and
their articulation for uniform stress – Equations of Equilibrium and Compatibility –
Composite bars – Temperature stresses
Strain Energy: Strain energy due to axial loads - gradually applied, suddenly applied
and impact loads.
UNIT – III:
Shear Force and Bending Moment: Types of supports, loads, beams – Concept of
shear force and bending moment – Relation between SF, BM and Rate of loading - SF
and BM diagrams for statically determinate beams – Cantilevers, Simply supported
beams, Overhanging beams - Point of contra flexure and its significance.
UNIT – IV:
Bending Stresses: Theory of Simple bending – Assumptions - Neutral axis – Derivation
of flexure formula – Section modulus for various sections - Bending stress distribution –
Strength of a section - Design of simple beam sections.
UNIT-V:
Shear Stresses: Derivation of Shear stress formula – Shear stress distribution across depth
of various beam sections like Rectangular, Circular, Triangular, I and T sections.
UNIT-VI:
Deflection of Beams: Slope, Deflection and Radius of curvature – Differential equation
for the deflection curve of a beam – Slope and Deflection of beams using Successive
Integration method – Macaulay‟s method – Mohr‟s Moment Area method
– Conjugate beam method – Application to Cantilever and Simply supported beams.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Mechanics of Materials, R. C. Hibbeler – Pearson Education
2. Mechanics of Materials, James Gere – Cengage Learning
REFERENCES:
1. Strength of Materials, B. C. Punmia, Ashok Jain, Arun Jain - Laxmi Publications
2. Strength of Materials, R. K. Bansal - Laxmi Publications
3. Strength of Materials, S. S. Rattan – McGraw-Hill Education (India) Pvt. Ltd
4. Strength of Materials, R. K. Rajput – S. Chand & Company Ltd
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1CE02) FLUID MECHANICS
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To identify and obtain values of fluid properties and relationship between them
• To explain the principles of continuity, momentum, and energy as applied to fluid
motions
• To apply these principles in the form of mathematical equations
• To solve these equations as applied to practical fluid mechanics problems
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Define fundamental concepts of fluid mechanics as applied to civil engineering
and environmental problems
CO-2: Discuss and derive the fundamental mathematical equations of fluid
mechanics
CO-3: Solve the fluid mechanics problems as related to practical civil engineering
problems of water conveyance in pipes, orifices, mouth pieces, notches and weirs
CO-4: Evaluate the various assumptions made in the application of equations to avoid
the common pitfalls
UNIT – I:
Properties of Fluid: Basic Concepts and Definitions – Distinction between a fluid and a
solid; Density, Specific weight, Specific gravity, Kinematic and dynamic viscosity;
variation of viscosity with temperature, Newton law of viscosity; vapor pressure, boiling
point, cavitation; surface tension, capillarity, Bulk modulus of elasticity, compressibility.
Fluid Statics: Fluid Pressure: Pressure at a point, Pascal‟s law, pressure variation
with temperature, density and altitude, Piezometer, U-Tube Manometer, Single
Column Manometer, U-Tube Differential Manometer, Micromanometers, Pressure
gauges; Hydrostatic pressure and force: horizontal, vertical and inclined surfaces;
Buoyancy and stability of floating bodies.
UNIT – II:
Fluid Kinematics: Classification of fluid flow; steady, unsteady, uniform and non-
uniform flows; Laminar and turbulent flows; One, two and three-dimensional flows;
Irrotational and rotational flows; Ideal and real flows; Stream line, streak line, path line
and stream tube; stream function, velocity potential function; Equation of
acceleration; Convective and local acceleration; One-, two- and three - dimensional
continuity equations in Cartesian coordinates; Flow net.
UNIT – III:
Fluid Dynamics: Surface and body forces; Equations of motion - Euler‟s
equation; Bernoulli‟s equation – derivation; Energy Principle; Practical applications
of Bernoulli‟s equation: venturimeter, orifice meter and pitot tube; Momentum
principle; Forces exerted by fluid flow on pipe bend; Vortex Flow – Free and Forced
UNIT – IV:
Flow Measurement: Measurement of velocity by Pilot tube; Discharge through venture
meter; Discharge through office meter; Discharge through flow nozzle; Flow through
orifices; Determination of coefficients for an orifice; Flow through mouth piece; Flow
through rectangular; triangular and trapezoidal notches and weirs; End contractions;
Velocity of approach; Broad crested weir.
UNIT – V:
Analysis of Pipe Flow: Reynolds experiment Classification of Laminar & Turbulent flows.
Steady laminar flow through circular pipes. Energy losses in pipelines: Minor losses,
Darcy Weisbach equation; Pipes in series and parallel; Branching of pipes, three
reservoir problem Total energy line and hydraulic gradient line. Resistance to flow of
fluid on smooth and rough pipes; Moody‟s diagram.
UNIT – VI:
Theory of Boundary Layer: Boundary layer and its growth, Boundary layer thickness,
displacement, momentum & energy thickness; Characteristics of Boundary layer
along a thin flat plate, Laminar and Turbulent Boundary layers (no derivations),
Boundary layer Separation and Control. Flow around submerged objects – Drag and
Lift – Magnus effect.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulic Machines, Modi and Seth, Standard Book House
2. Fluid Mechanics & Hydraulic Machines - Problems and Solutions, K. Subramanya
McGraw-Hill Education (I) Pvt. Ltd
3. Fluid Mechanics and Machineries, C. P. S. Ohja, P. N. Chandramouli, and R.
Berndtsson
REFERENCES:
1. Fluid Mechanics, V. L. Streeter, E. Benjamin Wiley and W. Bedford, McGraw-Hill
Company
2. Fluid Mechanics, Frank M. White, Tata McGraw-Hill Pvt. Ltd
3. Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulics Machines, R. K. Bansal, Laxmi Publications
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1CE03) BUILDING MATERIALS, CONSTRUCTION AND PLANNING
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To list different construction materials, their properties and applications
• To identify and explain major building components
• To understand the building bye-laws
• To explain the services required for different types of buildings
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Define and examine the properties of construction materials and their behavior
CO-2: Appraise various traditional and emerging building materials
CO-3: Describe various building components and finishes
CO-4: Plan a building with appropriate building services
UNIT – I:
Stones, Bricks and Tiles: Stones – classification and quarrying – properties – structural
requirements – dressing of stones; Bricks – composition of Brick earth – manufacturing
and properties of bricks; Ceramics – Tiles – manufacturing - specifications of tiles.
UNIT – II:
Lime, Cement, Wood, Aluminum, Steel and Glass: Lime – ingredients of lime,
classification, manufacturing; Cement- ingredients of cement; Wood – structure –
types and properties – seasoning; Aluminum and Steel – composition, material
properties and behavior; Glass, Fiber reinforced plastic- material properties.
UNIT – III:
Building components: Basic Structural and Non- structural components; Foundations
– types; Damp Proof Course - methods adopted; Lintels – Types; Walls – load bearing
and non-load bearing walls; Floors - types – mud and muram, wood/timber, marbles,
tiles, concrete, flag stones, bricks, mosaic, terrazzo floors; Roofs - types – pitched, flat,
curved, lean-to-roof, coupled roofs, trussed roof – king and queen post trusses; Doors
– Windows – types.
UNIT – IV:
Masonry: Brick Masonry – types – bonds; Stone masonry – types; Composite Masonry
– reinforced brick, cement concrete.
Formwork and Finishing: Scaffolding – types; Shoring; Underpinning; Finishes –
plastering, pointing, painting, claddings – types.
UNIT – V:
Building services: Plumbing Services, Water Distribution, Sanitary – Lines & Fittings;
Ventilators: Functional requirements, systems of ventilators. Air conditioning –
Essentials; Acoustics – characteristic – absorption – Acoustic design; Fire protection –
Fire hazards
UNIT – VI:
Building planning: Principles of Building Planning, classification of buildings and
Building bye laws – Building Information System – Green building concepts.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Building Materials, Duggal, New Age International
2. Building Construction, B. C. Punmia, Ashok Kumar Jain and Arun Kumar Jain, Laxmi
Publications (P) Ltd., New Delhi
REFERENCES:
1. Materials Science and Engineering – An Introduction, William D. Callister, Jr., John
Wiley and Sons, New York
2. Engineering Materials, S. C. Rangwala, Charotar Publishing House, Anand
3. Building Construction, Arora and Bindra, Dhanpat Rai Publications
Codes:
1. Building Construction, S. C. Rangwala, Charotar Publishing House, Anand
2. Building Construction, P. C. Varghese, PHI
3. National Building Code - 2016
4. Building bye laws, State and Central Governments and Municipal Corporations
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1CE04) SURVEYING AND GEOMATICS
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To understand methods of measuring horizontal distances using chain and
compass instruments
• To evaluate reduced levels and apply in the preparation of contour maps,
earthwork and reservoir capacity estimation
• To implement the principles of trigonometry and optics for the determination of
horizontal and vertical distances
• To correlate the importance of modern surveying techniques adopted in real
world situation
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Measure horizontal distance through plane surveying
CO-2: Prepare contour map and estimate the quantity of earthwork required for road
and railway constructions
CO-3: Judge on type of instrument to be used for setting out curves and vertical
elevations and horizontal distances
CO-4: Articulates the importance of modern instruments used in geomatics
UNIT – I:
Introduction to Surveying: Definition; Classification; Principles of surveying; Errors in
surveying: Types of errors; Ranging, Principles of chain surveying; Basic definitions.
Compass Surveying: Prismatic compass; Local attraction; angular measurements
Bearings.
UNIT – II:
Simple Leveling: Basic definitions; Curvature and Refraction; classification of methods
of leveling; Sources of errors in leveling. Contour; contour interval; Characteristics of
contours; Methods of plotting of contours; Uses of contour maps.
Areas and Volumes: Introduction; Simpson’s rule; Boundaries with offsets at irregular
intervals; coordinate method; planimeter; level section; two level section; trapezoidal
and prismoidal rule; volume from contour plan; capacity of a reservoir.
UNIT – III:
Theodolite Survey & Traversing: Theodolite components parts; basic definitions,
fundamental lines; measurement of a horizontal angle; repetition and reiteration
method and measurement of vertical angle.
Trigonometric Leveling: Base of the object accessible, base of an inclined object
accessible, reduced level of the elevated points with inaccessible bases.
UNIT – IV:
Tacheometric Surveying: Basic systems of tacheometric measurements; Inclined sight
with staff held vertical; inclined sight with staff held normal to the inclined line of sight.
Curves: Basic definitions; designation of a curve; relationship between radius and
degree of curve; types of curve; elements of a simple circular; methods of setting out
for simple.
UNIT – V:
Modern Field Survey Systems: Principle of Electronic Distance measurement; types of
EDM instruments, total station, parts, accessories – advantages and applications, field
procedure for total station survey, Errors in Total Station Survey; Global Positioning
Systems- Segments.
UNIT – VI:
Photogrammetry Surveying: Introduction, Basic concepts, perspective geometry of
aerial photograph, relief and tilt displacements, terrestrial photogrammetry, flight
planning; Stereoscopy, ground control extension for photographic mapping;
photographic mapping.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Surveying, Vol. I, II and III, Arora, K. R., Standard Book House, 2015
2. Elementary Surveying, Charles D. Ghilani, Paul R. Wolf., Prentice Hall, 2012
3. Surveying, Vol. I & II, Duggal S. K., Tata McGraw-Hill Education, 2013
REFERENCES:
1. Surveying I & II, B. C. Punmia, Ashok Kumar Jain, Ashok Kr. Jain, Arun Kr. Jain., Laxmi
Publications, 2005
2. Advanced Surveying: Total Station, GIS and Remote Sensing, Madhu N.,
Sathikumar R. and Satheesh Gobi, Pearson India, 2006
3. Surveying & Levelling, R. Subramanian, Oxford University Press, New Delhi, 2011
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC2CE01) STRENGTH OF MATERIALS LABORATORY
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To conduct the Tension test, Compression test on various materials
• To conduct the Shear test, Bending test on determinate beams
• To conduct the Compression test on spring and Hardness test using various
machines
• To conduct the Torsion test, Impact test on various materials
COURSE OUTCOMES: After the completion of the course, students should be able to
CO-1: Determine the yield stress, ultimate tensile stress, percentage elongation of
steel, compressive strength of brick and concrete
CO-2: Determine the ultimate shear stress, modulus of elasticity of steel
CO-3: Determine the stiffness of the close coiled helical spring and hardness number
of mild steel, brass, copper and aluminium
CO-4: Determine the modulus of rigidity and impact strength of steel
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
1. Uni-axial tension test on mild steel specimen.
2. Compression test on brick and concrete.
3. Rockwell hardness test.
4. Brinell’s hardness test.
5. Izod impact test.
6. Bending test on simply supported beam.
7. Direct shear test.
8. Compression test on close coiled helical spring.
9. Charpy impact Test.
10. Torsion test.
11. Bending test on cantilever beam.
12. Bending test on continuous beam.
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC2CE02) SURVERYING LABORATORY
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To apply the concepts of leveling for determining longitudinal and cross sectional
profile
• To develop contour maps through in-direct method of leveling
• To understand the principles of trigonometric and tacheometric surveying for
measurement of horizontal and vertical distances
• To relate the applications of modern instruments in measurement of area,
contouring and curves
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Construct profile of a given ground to develop contour maps
CO-2: Determine horizontal and vertical distances of accessible and inaccessible
points
CO-3: Appraise the importance of modern instruments in determination of area and
plotting the same accurately and precisely
CO-4: Set out simple horizontal curves using modern instruments
CYCLE – I
Leveling:
1. Measurement of elevation of various given points.
2. Fly Leveling.
3. Longitudinal Leveling
4. Cross – sectional Leveling and Plotting of Contours
Theodolite surveying:
5. Measurement of horizontal angles and vertical angles.
6. Distance between two inaccessible points using the principles of tachometer
surveying.
7. Distance between two inaccessible points using the principles of trigonometric
surveying.
CYCLE – II
Total Station:
8. Area Measurement.
9. Remote Elevation Measurement & Missing Line Measurement.
10. Longitudinal and Cross Section Profile.
11. Stake Out.
12. Contouring
13. Setting out of a Simple curve.
REFERENCES:
1. Surveying I & II, B.C. Punmia, Ashok Kumar Jain, Ashok Kr. Jain, Arun Kr. Jain., Laxmi
Publications, 2005
2. Higher Surveying, Chandra A. M., New Age International Publishers, 2007
3. Plane Surveying, Chandra A. M., New Age International Publ., 2007
4. Elementary Surveying, Charles D Ghilani, Paul R Wolf., Prentice Hall, 2012
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC3CE01) COMPUTER AIDED CIVIL ENGINEERING DRAWING
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To understand various types of conventional signs and brick bonds
• To draw the plan section and elevation for doors, trusses and staircases
• To use AutoCAD tools to draw building plans, sections and elevations from a given
line diagram and specifications
• To develop working drawings of residential buildings
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Use different AutoCAD Commands to draw Conventional signs and brick
bonds, Plan, Section and elevation of buildings
CO-2: Draw section and elevation of panelled doors and trusses
CO-3: Draw and detail the different components of Stair cases
CO-4: Draw Electrical layout, Plumbing layout for residential buildings
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
1. Introduction to Computer Aided Drafting and Conventional Signs
2. Brick bonds: English bond & Flemish bond – Odd and Even courses
3. Drawing elevation of a King Post Truss
4. Drawing elevation and section of a fully panelled door
5. Developing plan and section of dog-legged staircase
6. Developing plan of single storied residential building
7. Developing section and elevation of single storied residential building
8. Developing plan of two storied residential building
9. Developing section and elevation of two storied residential building
10. Development of working drawing of building – Electrical Layout
11. Development of working drawing of building – Plumbing Layout
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Civil Engineering Drawing-I, N. Sreenivasulu, S. Rama Rao, Radiant Publishing House
2. Civil Engineering Drawing-II, N. Sreenivasulu, Radiant Publishing House
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Graphics, P. J. Sha, S. Chand & Co
2. Civil Engineering Drawing-I, S. Mahaboob Basha, Falcon Publishers
3. Building Drawing, M. G. Shah, Tata McGraw-Hill Education
4. Structural Engineering Drawing, S. Mahaboob Basha, Falcon Publishers
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1CE05) STRENGTH OF MATERIALS – II
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To determine the stresses on an inclined plane
• To understand the concept of torsion and different types of springs
• To distinguish between thin and thick cylinders
• To find out the crippling load on columns by various formulae
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Determine the principal stresses and strains and design the elements according
to theories of failure
CO-2: Analyze the shafts subjected to torsion and determine the deflections in close
and open coiled helical springs
CO-3: Determine the various stresses in Thin and Thick cylinders
CO-4: Determine the crippling loads on columns and evaluate the combined stresses
UNIT – I:
Principal Stresses and Strains: Stresses on an inclined plane at a section of a bar under
axial loading – Compound stresses – Normal and Tangential stresses on an inclined
plane for biaxial stresses – Two perpendicular stresses accompanied by a state of
simple shear –Mohr’s Circle of stresses – Principal stresses and strains –
Analytical and graphical solutions.
UNIT – II:
Torsion of Circular Shafts: Theory of pure torsion – Assumptions - Derivation of Torsion
equation – Torsional moment of resistance – Polar moment of Inertia - Torsional rigidity
– Shafts in series and parallel - Power transmitted by shafts.
Springs: Types of springs – Close coiled helical springs under axial pull and axial couple
– Open coiled helical springs under axial pull and axial couple - Springs in series and
parallel.
UNIT – III:
Thin Cylinders: Thin cylindrical shells - Derivation of formula for longitudinal and
circumferential stresses - hoop, longitudinal and volumetric strains – changes in
diameter, length and volume of thin cylinders – Wire wound thin cylinders - Thin
spherical shells.
Thick Cylinders: Lame‟s Theory for thick cylinders – Derivation of Lame‟s equations -
Distribution of hoop and radial stresses across the thickness – Compound cylinders
UNIT – IV:
Columns and Struts: Short and Long columns – Euler‟s theorem for long columns
– Assumptions – Derivation of Euler‟s critical load formulae for various end conditions
– Equivalent length of a column – Slenderness ratio – Euler‟s critical stress -
Limitations of Euler‟s theory – Rankine‟s formula – Long columns subjected to eccentric
loading – Secant formula.
UNIT – V:
Direct and Bending Stresses: Stresses under the combined action of axial loading and
bending moment – Core/Kernel of a section – Middle-Third rule - Determination of
stresses in Chimneys, Retaining walls and Dams.
UNIT – VI:
Theories of Failure: Maximum principal stress theory - Maximum principal strain theory
– Maximum shear stress theory – Maximum strain energy theory – Maximum shear strain
energy theory.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Mechanics of Materials, R. C. Hibbeler, Pearson Education
2. Mechanics of Materials, James Gere, Cengage Learning
REFERENCES:
1. Strength of Materials, B. C. Punmia, Ashok Jain, Arun Jain, Laxmi Publications
2. Strength of Materials, R. K. Bansal, Laxmi Publications
3. Strength of Materials, S. S. Rattan, McGraw-Hill Education (India) Pvt. Ltd.
4. Strength of Materials, R. K. Rajput, S. Chand & Company Ltd.
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1CE06) STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To differentiate between statically determinate and indeterminate structures
• To solve the statically indeterminate structures by applying the principles of
equilibrium and compatibility of deformations
• To analyze the statically determinate beams, arches and frames
• To draw the Influence line diagrams for various types of moving loads on beams
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Analyze statically indeterminate beams and can sketch SFD and BMD
CO-2: Analyze statically determinate and indeterminate trusses
CO-3: Calculate the slopes and deflections in beams and trusses
CO-4: Evaluate the maximum SF and BM due to various types of moving loads
UNIT – I:
Pin Jointed Plane Frames: Types of frames – Assumptions - Analysis of pin jointed frames
by Method of joints, Method of sections.
UNIT – II:
Three Hinged Arches: Elastic theory of arches – Eddy‟s theorem – Determination of
horizontal thrust, bending moment, normal thrust and radial shear – Supports at
different levels – Effect of temperature.
UNIT – III:
Energy Theorems: Strain energy due to bending moment – Castigliano‟s first theorem
– Deflection of simple beams and pin jointed trusses.
Castigliano‟s second theorem – Analysis of indeterminate beams and trusses with
single degree of indeterminacy.
UNIT – IV:
Propped Cantilevers: Introduction to statically indeterminate beams – Analysis of
propped cantilevers – shear force and bending moment diagrams
Fixed Beams: Analysis of Fixed beams – Effect of sinking of support, rotation of support
- Shear force and bending moment diagrams.
UNIT – V:
Continuous Beams: Clapeyron‟s theorem of three moments - Analysis of continuous
beams with constant and varying moment of inertia – Effect of sinking of supports –
Shear force and bending moment diagrams.
UNIT – VI:
Influence Lines: Definition of influence line for reaction, SF and BM - load position for
maximum SF and BM at a section - single point load, udl longer than the span, udl
shorter than the span, two points loads with fixed distance between them and several
point loads.
Moving Loads: Absolute maximum SF and BM due to single concentrated load, udl
longer than the span, udl shorter than the span, two point loads with fixed distance
between them and several point loads - Equivalent uniformly distributed load.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Structural Analysis, Devdas Menon, Narosa Publishers
2. Structural Analysis, R. C. Hibbeler, Pearson Education
REFERENCES:
1. Theory of Structures, S. P. Timoshenko, D. H. Young, McGraw-Hill International
Edition
2. Analysis of Structures, V. N. Vazirani, M. M. Ratwani and S. K. Duggal, Khanna
Publishers
3. Theory of Structures, B. C. Punmia, Ashok Kumar Jain, A. K. Jain, Laxmi Publications
4. Basic Structural Analysis, K. U. Muthu, Azmi Ibrahim, M. Vijayanand and M.
Janardhana, I. K. International Publishing House
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1CE07) CONCRETE TECHNOLOGY
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To use different types of cements as per their properties for different field
applications
• To design economic concrete mix proportion for different exposure conditions and
intended purposes
• To supervise various concreting operations
• To conduct field and laboratory tests on concrete in fresh and hardened state
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Determine the properties of concrete ingredients by conducting different tests
CO-2: Use various chemical and mineral admixtures to design cement based
materials with tailor-made properties
CO-3: Use advanced laboratory techniques to characterize cement based materials
CO-4: Perform mix designs to develop special concretes and evaluate their properties
UNIT – I:
Cement: Manufacture of Portland Cement, Basic cement chemistry, Hydration of
cement, Heat of hydration - Tests on cement – Fineness, consistency, setting times,
soundness and strength - Types of cements – Ordinary Portland Cement, Rapid-
hardening cement, Low-heat portland cement, Sulfate resisting cement, Portland
pozzolan cement, White and coloured portland cement, High-alumina cement.
UNIT – II:
Aggregates: Classification of aggregates – size, shape and texture, Mechanical
properties of aggregates – bond, strength, toughness and hardness - Physical
properties specific gravity, bulk density, porosity and absorption, moisture content,
bulking of sand, Sieve analysis, Grading curves, Fineness modulus, Grading
requirements, Maximum aggregate size, Gap graded aggregate, Quality of water for
mixing and curing of concrete.
UNIT – III:
Admixtures and Fresh Concrete: Admixtures – plasticizers, superplasticizers, retarders,
accelerators, air-entraining admixtures, pozzolanic admixtures, Fresh concrete –
workability, factors affecting workability, cohesion and segregation, bleeding,
Workability tests – slump, compaction factor, vee bee test, Setting time of concrete,
Effect of time and temperature on workability.
UNIT – IV:
Strength, Elasticity, Creep and Shrinkage of Concrete: Water/cement ratio, Gel/space
ratio, Maturity concept of concrete, Factors affecting strength of concrete, Relation
between tensile and compressive strength, bond to reinforcement. Elasticity, Factors
influencing modulus of elasticity, Poisson‟s ratio, Creep, Factors influencing creep,
Effects of creep, Shrinkage, Factors influencing shrinkage, Types and effects of
cracking.
UNIT – V:
Testing and Conformity: Strength tests – compressive strength, tensile strength, Test
cores, Accelerated curing, Schmidt hammer, Penetration resistance, Pull-out test,
Ultrasonic pulse velocity test, Variability of strength, acceptance and conformity.
UNIT – VI:
Concrete Mix Design and Special Concretes: Factors in the choice of mix proportions,
Concrete mix design as per IS 10262, Special concretes – Introduction to light weight
concrete, Aerated concrete, No-fines concrete, Recycled aggregate concrete, Fibre
reinforced concrete, Ferrocement, Roller compacted concrete, High performance
concrete, Self-consolidating concrete.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Concrete Technology, A. M. Neville and J. J. Brooks, Prentice Hall Publication
2. Concrete Technology, M. S. Shetty, S. Chand & Co. Publication
REFERENCES:
1. Concrete Technology, A. R. Santha Kumar, Oxford University Press
2. Concrete Technology, M. L. Gambhir, Tata McGraw-Hill Press
3. Properties of Concrete, A. M. Neville, Pearson Publication
4. Concrete: Microstructure, Properties and Materials, P. K. Mehta and J. M. Monteiro,
McGraw-Hill Publishers
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1CE08) HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING AND HYDRAULIC MACHINES
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To define the fundamental principles of fluid mechanics for the solution of practical
civil engineering problems of water conveyance in open channels
• To discuss Dimensional analysis and design of channels in uniform and non-uniform
flow conditions, hydraulic machinery (pumps and turbines) and the factors
affecting their operation and specifications as well as the operation in a system
• To solve problems on open channel flow and efficiency of pumps and turbines
• To Study and analyze different types, elements of hydro-electric power plants and
operational characteristics of turbines and pumps. Study about CFD
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Study of basics of Open Channel Flows and Design open channels under
different flow conditions
CO-2: Interpret and apply dimensional analysis and similarity to develop models and
testing
CO-3: Study of basics of Hydraulic Machines. Compare and categorize the design of
appropriate hydraulic pumps and hydraulic turbines and their application in Hydro
Electric power plants
CO-4: Study of elements of Hydropower Engineering, Introduction to CFD and
Hydroinformatics
UNIT – I:
Open Channel Flow-I: Introduction to Open Channel Flow-Comparison between
open channel flow and pipe flow; geometrical parameters of a channel; classification
of open channels, classification of open channel flow, Velocity Distribution of channel
section.
Continuity Equation; Energy Equation and Momentum Equation; Characteristics of
uniform flow; Chezy‟s formula; Manning‟s formula; Factors affecting
Manning‟s Roughness Coefficient; Most economical section of channel; Computation
of Uniform flow, Normal depth.
Critical Flow: Specific energy – critical depth - computation of critical depth – critical,
sub critical and super critical flows
UNIT – II
Open Channel Flow – II: Non uniform flow: Gradually Varied Flow-Dynamic Equation
of Gradually Varied Flow, Classification of channel bottom slopes, Classification of
surface profile, Characteristics of surface profile; Computation of water surface profile
by Direct Step method.
Rapidly Varied Flow: Theory of hydraulic jump; Elements and characteristics of
hydraulic jump in a rectangular Channel, length and height of jump, location of jump,
types, and applications of hydraulic jump; Energy dissipation. Introduction to Positive
and negative surges.
UNIT – III:
Dimensional Analysis and Hydraulic Similitude: Dimensional homogeneity; Rayleigh
method; Buckingham‟s Pi method; Dimensionless groups; Similitude, Model studies,
Types of models. Application of dimensional analysis and model studies to fluid flow
problem.
UNIT – IV:
Basics of Hydraulic Machines: Hydrodynamic force of jets on stationary and moving
flat, inclined and curved vanes, Jet striking centrally and at tip, Velocity triangles at
inlet and outlet, expressions for work done and efficiency – Angular momentum
principle, applications to radial flow turbines.
Hydropower Engineering: Classification of Hydropower plants – Definition of terms –
load factor, utilization factor, capacity factor, estimation of hydropower potential.
UNIT – V:
Hydraulic Turbines: Elements of a typical Hydropower installation – Heads and
efficiencies – Classification of turbines – Pelton wheel – Francis turbine – Kaplan turbine
- Working, working proportions, velocity diagram, work done and efficiency, hydraulic
design, draft tube – theory and function, efficiency. Governing of turbines
– Surge tanks – Unit and specific turbines – Unit speed – Unit quantity – Unit power –
Specific speed – Performance characteristics – Geometric similarity – Cavitation.
UNIT – VI:
Centrifugal Pumps: Pump installation details – classification – work done – Manometric
head – minimum starting speed – losses and efficiencies – specific speed. Multistage
pumps – pumps in parallel – performance of pumps – characteristic curves – NPSH –
Cavitation.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulic Machines, Modi and Seth, Standard Book House
2. Open Channel Flow, K. Subramanya, Tata McGraw-Hill Pvt. Ltd., 2008
REFERENCES:
1. Open Channel Hydraulics, V. T. Chow, McGraw-Hill, 1959
2. Fluid Mechanics & Hydraulic Machines - Problems and Solutions, K. Subramanya,
McGraw-Hill Education (I) Pvt. Ltd., 2011
3. Computational Fluid Dynamics - The Basics with Applications, Jr. John D. Anderson,
McGraw-Hill Pvt. Ltd., 2017
4. Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulics Machines, R. K. Bansal, Lakshmi Publications
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19ES1EE07) ELEMENTS OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To study and understand the performance of basic electric circuits
• To understand the performance of electrical machines
• To know the utilization of electrical energy in day to day to affairs
• To understand the operation of diode and transistor
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Analyse the performance of electrical circuits
CO-2: Test, analyse and find the applications of different electric machines
CO-3: Know the use of electric power for domestic and industrial purposes
CO-4: Understand the principles of semiconductor devices and their applications
UNIT – I:
Fundamentals of Electrical Circuits: Basic R-L-C parameters, Ohm’s Law, kirchhoff’s
Laws, Series-parallel connections, Star/Delta Transformation, Generation of A.C,
Average, RMS values and Form Factor of Sinusoidal Voltages, AC through RL,RC and
RLC, concept of impedance, power, power factor, simple problems
UNIT – II:
D.C Machines: D.C Generator, Basic Construction, Operation, emf Equation, types,
Open Circuit Characteristics, simple problems. D.C Motor-principle-back emf-Torque
equation, Speed control, Swinburne’s test.
UNIT – III:
Introduction to 3-phase circuits, relation between line and phase quantities in
balanced star and delta networks.
A.C Machines: Single phase transformer: principle-emf equation-types-OC and SC
tests- Voltage Regulation -Efficiency-Simple problems.
UNIT – IV:
Three Phase Induction Motor: Working principle – slip- torque equation- Torque slip
characteristics, Principle of Alternator.
Electrical Power Systems and Utilization: Hydro Power Plant: Lay out -Efficiency
Calculation, Illumination: Definitions-Laws of Illumination- working of Incandescent
Fluorescent lamps.
UNIT – V:
Electronics Devices: Semiconductor materials, Review of P-N junction, Diode
Characteristics, Basic Operation of Half-wave and Full wave Rectifiers, Zener Diode as
Voltage Regulator, BJT, biasing, Characteristics, applications.
UNIT – VI:
Digital Circuits and Transducers: Logic gates, Combinational Logic circuits, Basic
operation of SR-JK-T and D Flip-Flops, Transducers -Overview - Passive Sensors - Working
of Strain Gauge, Pressure Gauge, Dial Gauge - Piezoelectric Accelerometer Model-
Galvanometer.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Principles of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, V. K. Mehta, S. Chand & Co.
2. Fundamentals of Electrical Engineering, Ashafaq Hussain, 2nd Edition, Dhanpat Rai
& Co
3. Electronic Devices and Circuits, S. Salivahanan, N. Suresh Kumar, 3rd Edition,
McGraw- Hill Education
REFERENCES:
1. Electrical Technology, Edward Hughes, ELBS Longman Publisher
2. Basic Electrical Engineering, D. P. Kothari & I. J. Nagrath, TMH Publications, 2nd
Edition
3. Utilization of Electric Power and Electric Traction, G. C. Garg, Khanna Publishers
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC2CE03) FLUID MECHANICS AND HYDRAULIC MACHINES LABORATORY
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To identify the behavior of analytical models introduced in lecture to the actual
behavior of real fluid flows
• To explain the standard measurement techniques of fluid mechanics and their
applications
• To illustrate the students with the components and working principles of the
hydraulic machines- different types of Turbines, Pumps, and other miscellaneous
hydraulics machines
• To analyse the laboratory measurements and to document the results in an
appropriate format
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Describe the basic measurement techniques of fluid mechanics and its
appropriate application
CO-2: Interpret the results obtained in the laboratory for various experiments
CO-3: Discover the practical working of Hydraulic machines- different types of
Turbines, Pumps, and other miscellaneous hydraulics machines
CO-4: Compare the results of analytical models introduced in lecture to the actual
behaviour of real fluid flows and draw correct and sustainable conclusions
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
1. Verification of Bernoulli‟s equation
2. Determination of Coefficient of discharge for a small orifice by a constant head
method.
3. Calibration of Venturimeter / Orifice Meter
4. Calibration of Triangular / Trapezoidal Notch
5. Study of Minor losses in pipe flow
6. Determination of Friction factor of a pipe line
7. Impact of jet on vanes
8. Study of Hydraulic jump
9. Main characteristics of Pelton wheel turbine
10. Performance test on Francis turbine
11. Main characteristics of a single stage / multi stage Centrifugal Pump
12. Operating characteristics of Reciprocating Pump
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC2CE04) CONCRETE LABORATORY
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To know the various procedures to determine the characteristics of cement
• To understand the test procedures to evaluate the characteristics of aggregates
• To know the test procedures to find the properties of fresh concrete
• To understand the test procedures to find mechanical properties of hardened
concrete
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Perform various tests required to assess the characteristics of cement
CO-2: Test and evaluate the properties of fine and coarse aggregates and determine
its suitability for construction
CO-3: Evaluate the fresh and hardened properties of concrete
CO-4: Design the concrete mix for required strength and test its performance
characteristics
LIST OF EXERCISES:
CYCLE – I
1. Tests on Cement:
a) Standard consistency.
b) Initial and final Setting Time.
c) Specific gravity.
d) Fineness.
e) Soundness.
f) Compressive strength.
2. Tests on Aggregates:
a) Specific gravity of fine aggregate.
b) Specific gravity of coarse aggregate.
c) Bulking of fine aggregate.
d) Grading of fine aggregate
CYCLE -II
3. IS method of mix design of normal concrete as per IS : 10262
4. Tests on Fresh Concrete:
a) Slump cone test.
b) Compacting factor test.
c) Vee-Bee consistometer test.
5. Tests on Hardened Concrete:
a) Compressive & Tensile strength tests.
b) Modulus of elasticity of concrete.
c) Non-destructive testing of concrete.
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19ES2EE06) ELEMENTS OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
LABORATORY
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Physics
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To understand the performance of basic electric circuits
• To understand the measuring procedures for power
• To understand the performance of electrical machines
• To understand the operation of diode and transistor
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Analyse the performance of electrical circuits.
CO-2: Analyse the power using voltmeter and ammeter method
CO-3: Assess the performance of transformer and electrical machines.
CO-4: Understand the principles of semiconductor devices and their applications
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
1. Verification of KVL & KCL.
2. Analysis of series RL and RC circuits
3. Single phase power measurement by three voltmeters and three ammeters
method
4. Load test on 1- ϕ Transformer
5. OC & SC test on 1- ϕ Transformer.
6. Speed control DC shunts Motor.
7. Swinburne test on DC shunt machine
8. V-I characteristics of P-N junction Diode.
9. Performance of Full wave rectifier.
10. Input and output characteristics of transistor.
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
0 2 0
(A19MN6HS03) GENDER SENSITIZATION
COURSE DESCRIPTION:
This course offers an introduction to Gender Studies, an interdisciplinary field that asks
critical questions about the meanings of sex and gender in society. The primary goal
of this course is to familiarize students with key issues, questions and debates in Gender
Studies, both historical and contemporary. It draws on multiple disciplines – such as
literature, history, economics, psychology, sociology, philosophy, political science,
anthropology and media studies – to examine cultural assumptions about sex,
gender, and sexuality. This course integrates analysis of current events through student
presentations, aiming to increase awareness of contemporary and historical
experiences of women, and of the multiple ways that sex and gender interact with
race, class, caste, nationality and other social identities. This course also seeks to build
an understanding and initiate and strengthen programmes combating gender-based
violence and discrimination. The course also features a number of exercises and
reflective activities designed to examine the concepts of gender, gender-based
violence, sexuality, and rights. It will further explore the impact of gender-based
violence on education, health and development.
ACTIVITIES:
Classes will consist of a combination of activities: dialogue-based lectures, discussions,
collaborative learning activities, group work and in-class assignments.
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To sensitize students on issues of gender in contemporary India
• To provide a critical perspective on the socialization of men and women
• To expose the students to debates on the politics and economics of work
• To enable students to reflect critically on gender violence
• To expose students to more egalitarian interactions between men and women
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Understand important issues related to gender in contemporary India
CO-2: Attain a finer grasp of how gender discrimination works in our society and how
to counter it
CO-3: Acquire insight into the gendered division of labour and its relation to politics
and economics
CO-4: Respond to put an end to gender violence
CO-5: Equipped to work with the other gender treating them as equals
MODULE 1: Introduction to Gender
Definition of Gender
Basic Gender Concepts and Terminology
Exploring Attitudes towards Gender
Social Construction of Gender
MODULE 2: Gender Roles and Relations
Types of Gender Roles
Gender Roles and Relationships Matrix
Gender-based Division and Valuation of Labour
MODULE 3: Gender Development Issues
Identifying Gender Issues
Gender Sensitive Language
Gender, Governance and Sustainable Development
Gender and Human Rights
Gender and Mainstreaming
MODULE 4: Gender-based Violence
The concept of violence
Types of Gender-based violence
The relationship between gender, development and violence
Gender-based violence from a human rights perspective
MODULE 5: Gender and Culture
Gender and Film
Gender and Electronic Media
Gender and Advertisement
Gender and Popular Literature
MODULE 6: Gender and Studies
Knowledge: Through the Lens of Gender Point of View, Gender and the Structure of
Knowledge
Whose History: Questions for Historians and Others, Reclaiming a Past, Writing Other
Histories
TEXT BOOK:
1. “Towards a World of Equals: A Bilingual Textbook on Gender”, A. Suneetha, Uma
Bhrugubanda, Duggirala Vasanta, Rama Melkote, Vasudha Nagaraj, Asma
Rasheed, Gogu Shyamala, Deepa Sreenivas and Susie Tharu, Telugu Akademi,
Telangana Government, 2015
REFERENCES:
1. “More than One Million Women are Missing”, Sen, Amartya, New York Review of
Books 37.20 (20 December 1990), Print ‘We Were Making History’ Life Stories of
Women in the Telangana People’s Struggle, New Delhi: Kali for Women, 1989
2. “By the Numbers: Where Indian Women Work” Women’s Studies Journal (14
November 2012),, Tripti Lahiri, Available online at: http: // blogs.wsj.com/ India real
time/2012/11/14/by-the-numbers-where-India-women-work/&gt
3. “I Fought For My Life ...and Won, Abdulali Sohaila, Available online at:
http://www.thealternative.in/lifestyle/i-fought-for-my-lifeand-won-sohaila-abdulal
4. The Violence of Development: The Politics of Identity, Gender and Social
Inequalities in India, K. Kapadia, London: Zed Books, 2002
5. Just Development: Beyond Adjustment with a Human Face, T. Banuri and M.
Mahmood, Karachi: Oxford University Press, 1997
