SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/csedept/CZINE_2024.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
CZINE
Come.. Simulate.. Innovate
MAGAZINE 2024
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Vision
Mission
To achieve academic and research excellence To provide dynamic, innovative and flexible
in essential technologies of Computer Science curriculum which equip the students with the
necessary, problem driven skills to strengthen their
and Engineering by promoting a creative
career prospects and potential to pursue higher
environment for learning and innovation.
studies.
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs) To foster inquisitive-driven research among students
and staff so as to reinforce the domain knowledge
The graduates of the program will become
and address contemporary societal issues.
proficient in the principles and practices of
computer science, mathematics and science, To inculcate ethical values, leadership qualities and
enabling them to solve a wide range of professional behavior skills for improving the living
computing related problems. standards of people.
To enable the students with innovative
applications of engineering knowledge and
programming skills to spearhead the Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs)
progress of society in the information age.
To mould the students into competent, Apply the Knowledge of Programming
successful, and practicing engineers in their
Languages, Networks and Databases for
career and/or in pursuing their higher
development of Software Applications.
studies through the spirit of innovation and
entrepreneurship. Identify, Analyse, Formulate and Solve
To provide exposure to cutting edge Real Time Complex Engineering
technologies, adequate training and Problems.
opportunities to work individually and as
Design, Implement and Deploy a Quality
teams on multidisciplinary projects with
Based Software System to meet the
effective analytical skills.
To acquire and practice the profession with Evolving needs.
ethics, integrity and leadership qualities with
due consideration to environmental issues in
conformance with societal needs.
Computer Society of India Student Branch
Chapter (CSI SBC, VNRVJIET)
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Computer Society of India
ABOUT VNRVJIET
The Department of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), established in the
year 1995, evolved towards enhancing Computing and its applications to build the
intellectual capital of the society. The department is witnessing a period of exciting
growth and opportunity propelled by the growth of technology and its recognition
through excellence.
B.Tech CSE is NBA Accredited and is recognized as a Research Center by JNTUH.
The department offers 2 UG programmes: B.Tech CSE and B.Tech CSBS (Computer
Science and Business Systems). It also offers 2 PG programmes: MTech- Software
Engineering (SE) and M.Tech-Computer Science and Engineering (CSE).
ABOUT CSI
Student chapter Computer Society of India(CSI) established under the Department
of Computer Science and Engineering on 6th Oct 2004, The purposes of the society
are scientific and educational directed towards the advancement of the theory and
practice of Computer Science, Computer Engineering and Technology, Systems
Science and Engineering, Information Processing and related Arts and Sciences. It
is a professional body where professionals meet to exchange views and
information, to learn and share ideas. Morethan70% of the students and faculty of
CSE are members of CSI.
The activities of the Chapters includes Seminars, Workshops and Technical
Symposium, Certification Courses & Guest Lectures to keep faculty and students
updated with latest developments in various Technologies.
Every year we conduct a National Level Technical Symposium Convergence. The
students under the society are molded into competent software professionals, to
face the challenges of the IT sector. The advisory board members of CSI Student
Branch are Dr S Nagini, Dr C Kiranmai, Dr B V Kiranmayee, Mr N Sandeep
Chaitanya & Mr Ch Sri Sumanth.
ABOUT CZINE
CSI of VNRVJIET launches a magazine called CZINE with all technical updates
and other information that can benefit its members. This annual magazine
covers complete details of various activities held during the academic year and
also articles given by students.
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Computer Society of India
MANAGING COMMITTEE
Chairperson : P.Sai Saketh Non-Technical Head : Sandeep Korani
General Secretary : Abhinav Sudhanv Non-Technical Head : A.Rutvik Reddy
Treasurer : Neha Kakarla Non-Technical Head : Shaik Afreen
President : Reshmitha Uppala Creative Head : Sreeja Srirangam
Director : Vishnukanth Varma Creative Head : S.Pravalika Reddy
Designing Head : Vinay Vardhan Edulapally Creative Head : Shaik Sabeeha Kouser
Designing Head : Rohan Kurella Event Organizer : Maddula Keerthi
Designing Head : Neeha Bathula Event Organizer : Monika Desireddy
Technical Head : Gunnalle Apurva Event Coverage Co-ordinator : Pallavi Narra
Technical Head : Basuthkar Likitha Public Relations Co-ordinator : Rushika Arvapalli
Technical Head : Moola Sai Sudha Public Relations Co-ordinator : Palla Navya Sree
Public Relations Co-ordinator : Addanki Jyothirmai
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Computer Society of India
ACTION COMMITTEE
Vice Chairperson : Kollure Guna Rathna Technical Head : Y. V. Bhargav
Joint Secretary : D. Sai Rohith Technical Head : Jonnalagadda Haripriya
Joint Treasurer : Deepthi Vunnam Technical Head : Swapnil Podishetti
Vice President : Sai Rakshita Narsingh Non-Technical Head : Srinithya Vallepalli
Deputy Director : I N S Karthik Non-Technical Head : Manas Kumar Palavalasa
Designing Head : A. V. Karthikeya Non-Technical Head : Dheeraj Yerramasu
Designing Head : Hima Sameera N. Creative Head : Harshitha Temberveni
Designing Head : Indhusree Rachuri Creative Head : T. Krishna Soumya
Designing Head : Chintala Varun Teja Creative Head : Diddi Shravya
Designing Head : N. Kavya Reddy Event Organizer : Sathwik Tammishetti
Documentation Head : Mohammed Fouziya Event Organizer : Pavan Praneetha Kunuku
Documentation Head : Chandra Shekar Golla Event Coverage Co-Ordinator : Chaitanya Tarigopula
Documentation Head : Omkaarini Savarapu Public Relations Co-Ordinator : Neha Gurram
Public Relations Co-Ordinator : G. Jyothi Swaroop
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Computer Society of India
MESSAGES
Dr. C. D. Naidu (PRINCIPAL)
The Computer Society of India (CSI) has done an amazing job of
gathering all the best projects and technical articles on technology
advancements into its annual publication, CZINE 2023. This
demonstrates the CSI team's commitment and hard work. By
certainty, CSI will get bigger and better, always adding new
components to the college's richness and fame.
Dr. S. Nagini (Professor, Head Dept of CSE & CSBS)
I am pleased to see that CSI is launching its Annual Newsletter, CZINE.
This magazine provides students with a platform to showcase their
talents, enhance their soft skills, and stay updated with contemporary
trends. I wish the student chapter great success in all their future
endeavors.
Mr. N. Sandeep Chaitanya (Faculty Co-ordinator)
CSI inspires students to pursue greatness and to realize their best
potential. In order to accomplish common objectives, it helps students
develop their leadership abilities, promote teamwork, and advance
their personal development. Through encouraging personal growth,
CSI inspires students to keep getting better, which is essential for
achieving group goals.
Mr. Ch Sri Sumanth (Faculty Co-ordinator)
Every student has talents, skills, and abilities that must be recognized,
developed, and supported in order for them to reach new heights. CSI
is the ideal setting for this to happen. CSI is the most powerful force in
shaping students' futures because it gives them the correct amount of
confidence to reach their goals.
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Computer Society of India
MESSAGES
Mr. P. Sai Saketh (Chairperson CSI, 2023-24)
As a CSI volunteer, I began my journey with enthusiasm, serving in
various roles—from dedicated volunteer to Vice Chairman and finally
as the Chairman. My time with CSI has been more than just a
commitment; it has been a transformative experience. Professionally,
I’ve honed my leadership, communication, and project management
skills. Personally, it’s the lasting connections, memories, and the sense
of purpose that truly make an impact. As my chapter comes to an end,
I carry forward the legacy of CSI with gratitude.
Mr. Abhinav Sudhanv (General Secretary CSI, 2023-24)
I gained a lot of exposure through serving on the CSI committee. I
made lot of contacts with my seniors, juniors, faculty, and even some
executives. All these connections will be beneficial to me
professionally and also helped me develop myself personally. In
addition to all the technical details, I personally have numerous
memories from CSI that I will cherish forever.
Ms. Neha Kakarla (Treasurer CSI, 2023-24)
Being part of CSI had a profound impact on me both professionally
and personally. My time here has enhanced my teamwork and
leadership abilities as I collaborated with diverse groups. The
exposure to industry experts and networking opportunities
broadened my professional network and perspective. CSI significantly
contributed to my holistic development, balancing technical expertise
with personal growth.
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Computer Society of India
MESSAGES
Ms. Reshmitha Uppala (President CSI, 2023-24)
CSI is that kind of a platform where individuals get opportunity to
work with different mindsets and perspectives which constantly
provides room for many new ideas and approaches. The organisation
has taught me a lot on a professional and personal level. I will always
cherish the memories I created here, and the exposure and
connections I gained from CSI will be beneficial to me throughout my
life.
Mr. Vishnukanth Varma (Director CSI, 2023-24)
My journey with CSI has been transformative, providing invaluable
exposure and opportunities that have guided me through challenges
and enriched my knowledge and skills. Volunteering with CSI
enhanced my professional capabilities and personal growth, helping
me see my true potential and uncover hidden skills as a public
speaker. The experience was a progressive learning journey that
helped me grow mentally every day. Every day was a challenging yet
rewarding effort to explore my horizons. I've learned how to be both a
team player and a team leader. Serving on the CSI committee allowed
me to build valuable connections with seniors, juniors, faculty, and
industry executives, which will benefit my career. The experiences
and personal memories from CSI will always hold a special place in
my heart.
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Computer Society of India
MESSAGES
Mr. E. Vinay Vardhan (Designing Head CSI, 2023-24)
My time with CSI has been remarkable, beginning with supportive
interactions with seniors and faculty who provided invaluable
guidance and recognition. Being actively involved in CSI allowed me
to engage with various college clubs, broadening my collaborative
skills and perspective. A defining moment was being appointed
Designing Lead for our technical fest, Convergence, where I
significantly enhanced my graphic designing skills, boosting my
creativity and confidence. Throughout this journey, I formed
meaningful connections and friendships, making CSI a crucial part of
my college experience. The experiences and connections I've gained
have been invaluable to my personal and professional growth.
Mr. Rohan Kurella (Designing Head CSI, 2023-24)
Joining CSI was a transformative experience for me. Not only did I
learn invaluable skills in designing, but I also gained a newfound
confidence that has positively impacted every aspect of my life. The
supportive environment allowed me to explore my creative potential
and push beyond my comfort zone. Beyond just technical skills, CSI
provided me a platform for personal growth, leadership development,
and lifelong friendships. I am incredibly grateful for the opportunities
and lessons I gained through my involvement with CSI
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Computer Society of India
MESSAGES
Ms. Neeha Bathula (Designing Head CSI, 2023-24)
I owe a significant part of my professional growth to the Computer
Society of India. The platform and resources provided by CSI have
honed my technical and creative skills. Serving as the designing head
allowed me to push my boundaries and achieve milestones I once
thought impossible. The mentorship and collaborative environment
within CSI have been key in building my confidence and expertise.
Ms. Gunnalle Apurva (Technical Head CSI, 2023-24)
For me, CSI is much more than just a college student chapter . It was
the platform that got me out of my comfort zone and helped me build
good and lasting friendships. I got a chance to connect with people
having varied skillsets and learned a lot from each one of them. This
community has always pushed me to do better and realise that we are
all capable of doing more than we think we are.
My leadership, planning, communication and technical skills are all
because of CSI. Proud to have been a member of this nurturing
community.
Ms. Basuthkar Likhita (Technical Head CSI, 2023-24)
CSI has been an integral part of my undergraduate experience and
provided me with a platform to get acquainted with a lot of new
people. It was also the one place where I learned to organize events,
manage people, and make decisions wisely as the situation
demanded. It has been a great journey for me and my peers to be a
part of this chapter. I hope the legacy continues with more
opportunities for students to learn and thrive.
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Computer Society of India
MESSAGES
Ms. Moola Sai Sudha (Technical Head CSI, 2023-24)
There has been a lot of transformation in myself working as the
Technical head at CSI. I have gained greater confidence in conducting
events , making new connections in no time and planning out things.
Csi was also beneficial for me in making seniors and juniors as life
long friends.
Mr. Sandeep Korani (Non-Technical Head CSI, 2023-24)
My time at CSI has completely transformed me and equipped me with
valuable leadership skills. From organizing events to speaking on
stage, I've gained confidence and a stronger sense of responsibility.
The recognition I've gained through CSI has further validated my
efforts and provided me with a platform to showcase my leadership
skills. With CSI, I've developed close relationships at several
academic levels, which has improved my experience. With countless
memories, I can say that CSI has played a significant role in my career
by influencing both my personal and professional growth and offering
a wealth of learning opportunities.
Mr. A. Rutvik Reddy (Non-Technical Head CSI, 2023-24)
CSI has been like a backbone throughout my engineering experience,
helping me grow as a person and providing chances to learn new
skills. It gave me a platform to turn my ideas into reality, which is
crucial for gaining knowledge and exploring in engineering.
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Computer Society of India
MESSAGES
Ms. Shaik Afreen (Non-Technical Head CSI, 2023-24)
Being part of CSI during my engineering years was really important to
me. It taught me to be responsible and helped me get better at talking
to people and making friends. I also learned to overcome my fear of
speaking in front of a group. Because we organised many events, I got
better at managing things too. Overall, CSI has given me countless
memories that hold a special place in my heart and will remain
cherished forever.
Ms. Sreeja Srirangam (Creative Head CSI, 2023-24)
I am honored to be a part of CSI, where I've gained indispensable
experience crucial for any college student. This opportunity has not
only widened my network but also provided me with invaluable
lessons in event organization and teamwork. Learning to take
initiative has been empowering, and being able to guide juniors with
the knowledge and experience gained here has been immensely
rewarding. CSI has played a pivotal role in shaping my personal and
professional growth.
Ms. S. Pravalika Reddy (Creative Head CSI, 2023-24)
Volunteering with CSI has transformed me both personally and
professionally. I've had the opportunity to interact with diverse
people, expanding my perspective on engineering and technology.
Overall, my experience with CSI has been invaluable to my
development.
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Computer Society of India
MESSAGES
Ms. Shaik Sabeeha Kouser (Creative Head CSI, 2023-24)
Engaging with CSI, I progressed from member to volunteer and then
committee member. Each stage presented challenges, fostering my
time management, leadership, and communication. Through this
supportive network, I refined my core values. This continuous
learning journey remains a vital influence, shaping the professional I
am today.
Ms. Maddula Keerthi (Event Organizer CSI, 2023-24)
It is my pleasure to be a part of the Best Student Chapter. CSI made
me strong both professionally and personally. It helped me build
connections with people in the college as well as with the Faculty and
Alumni. It gave me opportunities to learn from diverse people which
made me think from different perspectives. Every event made me
learn atleast one thing which made me focus and improve myself. CSI
gave me the ultimate confidence to face challenges and failures with
patience. I've gathered many previous moments to remember and
wonderful memories to cherish forever.
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Computer Society of India
MESSAGES
Ms. Monika Desireddy (Event Organizer CSI, 2023-24)
My experience with the Computer Society of India (CSI) has been
profoundly enriching, both personally and professionally. The
exposure I received through CSI has consistently guided me in finding
solutions when faced with challenges. Volunteering with CSI allowed
me to interact with a diverse group of people, broadening my
perspectives on engineering and technology. The organization helped
me identify, nurture, and encourage my talents, skills, and abilities,
enabling me to achieve greater heights. Serving on the CSI committee
provided me with invaluable contacts among seniors, juniors, faculty,
and even industry executives, all of which will be beneficial for my
professional growth. Additionally, CSI instilled a strong sense of
confidence in me, which has been instrumental in shaping my future.
The work I have done with CSI is a treasure, as I learned immensely
from the experience. The memories I made during my time with CSI
are ones I will cherish forever, as they have significantly contributed
to my personal and professional development. Overall, my journey
with CSI has been invaluable, offering me countless opportunities to
grow and excel.
Ms. Pallavi N. (Event Coverage Co-ordinator CSI, 2023-
24)
CSI was transformative for me in college. It boosted my technical
abilities through hands-on projects. But it also grew my leadership,
teamwork, and communication skills. Networking with professionals
expanded my horizons. Most impactfully, CSI gave me the confidence
to push my boundaries and discover my true potential. As I graduate,
I'm grateful for CSI's role in shaping my knowledge, skillset, and self-
assurance for future endeavors. The experience will forever be
cherished.
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Computer Society of India
MESSAGES
Ms. Rushika Arvapalli (Public Relations Co-ordinator
CSI, 2023-24)
The exposure I received in CSI made me explore myself and
understand where my interest lies in. Through CSI I have met many
people and faculty in my college life which made help in building my
network and also helped me in understanding different mindsets of
the people. CSI has helped me grow both in technical and non
technical to a greater extent. CSI helped build self confidence and
motivated me throughout my journey. Apart from this I have also
made unforgettable memories in my journey.
Ms. Palla Navya Sree (Public Relations Co-ordinator CSI,
2023-24)
It has been an honor to be part of CSI. Through this experience, I
discovered what I am capable of and what I can achieve. I gained
valuable knowledge and exposure, and I had a truly great time.Most
importantly, I built strong connections with seniors, juniors, and
faculty members.I feel immensely proud to be a core committee
member, carrying forward such a significant legacy.
Ms. Addanki Jyothirmai (Public Relations Co-ordinator
CSI, 2023-24)
Being involved with CSI significantly enriched my technical
knowledge and personal development. Personally, it fostered a sense
of community and collaboration, allowing me to build lasting
relationships and improve my skills. The mentorship and guidance I
received were invaluable, shaping my career path and personal
growth.
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Computer Society of India
ACTIVITY
REPORTS
Battle at the Greens
28t h March 2023
The Computer Society of India organized "Battle at the Greens" on 28/03/2023 at JSK
Greens for all undergraduate students. The event, judged by Ms. Prativa Rani Saha and Dr. S.
Kanchana, featured a quiz and a debate round. Teams formulated questions and debated on
topics randomly picked by faculty. The quiz involved a Q&A session followed by a related
debate in the second round. Judges evaluated the performances, culminating in the
announcement of the winning team.
Sherlock Code Breakers
30t h May 2023
The Computer Society of India conducted "Sherlock Code Breakers" on 30-05-2023, an
exciting debugging event for second-year students in CSE, CSBS, and allied branches.
Participants tackled intricate code puzzles and complex algorithms, enhancing their
problem-solving and logical thinking skills. This competition emphasized the art of
debugging, which involves identifying and resolving errors in software to ensure proper
functionality. The event blended competition and collaboration, pushing students to their
limits.
Game-a-thon
6t h June 2023
The Gameathon highlighted gaming's entertainment value, its potential for skill
development, and community building. It showcased gamers' talents while emphasizing
gaming's positive impacts on individuals. The event inspired aspiring gamers by providing
a platform to display their skills and talents. Participants were encouraged to engage in
competitive gaming, practice, and develop their abilities. Gameathon motivated individuals
to pursue their passion for gaming and aim for future events.
Ideathon
7 t h June 2023
The Ideathon concluded with a winner declaration and recognition ceremony, where the
jury selected winners based on the quality and potential of presented ideas. Winners were
announced and honored during the closing ceremony or award function. The event
promoted innovation and ideation, encouraging participants to think creatively and
develop feasible ideas. Through a PPT submission round and live pitching session,
participants showcased their ideas to industry experts, received feedback, and potentially
secured support for implementation. Ideathon's success highlighted the power of
collaborative thinking, creativity, and innovation in driving positive change.
Speak-a-thon
8 t h June 2023
On 08-06-2023, the Computer Society of India and the Department of CSE conducted
FlashForte, an online event featuring Speak-A-Thon, for all first-year students. This
engaging event provided a platform for participants to express themselves and explore
various topics freely. Speak-A-Thon encouraged creativity and showcased unique
perspectives through storytelling, extrapolation, and tackling challenging subjects. The
inclusive environment fostered open dialogue and intellectual exploration, allowing
individuals to connect, share, and learn from each other.
Design-a-thon
9t h June 2023
The Computer Society of India conducted "Design-a-thon" on 09-06-2023 as part of Flash
Forte, an online event for first-year students across all branches. This event provided a
platform for 53 participants to showcase their creativity and problem-solving skills
remotely. Participants chose from themes such as "Effects of AI on the Present
Generation," "Advertise a Local Business," "Life After World War 3," "Games: Then vs.
Now," and "Life in Lockdown." They created practical and impactful design solutions
within a limited timeframe, demonstrating their individual talents.
India Space Programme
7t h July 2023
The Computer Society of India organized National
Remote Sensing Centre event at KS Auditorium,
VNRVJIET, featured ISRO scientists discussing
advancements in remote sensing, satellite
technology, and the Indian Space Programme. Dr. R
Srinivas provided an overview of ISRO's history,
centres, and significant achievements in space
exploration, including the SLV-3 launch.
Mr. Hariesh Pesara focused on "Remote Sensing of Earth," covering optical and microwave
bands for resource mapping, the 3-S concept, and practical examples of image
enhancement techniques. Attendees gained insights into ISRO's contributions and the
applications of remote sensing technologies. The event aimed to deepen understanding of
ISRO's impact on various sectors in India.
Innovation Spark
24t h July 2023
The Computer Society of India organized "Innovation Spark - Idea Challenge" on 24-07-
2023 at A111 Lab for 1st, 2nd, and 4th-year students from all branches. Judges included N.
Sandeep Chaitanya, Ch. Sri Sumanth, K. Akhil, P. V. Siva Kumar, Dr. D. Sudheer, and S.
Alankritha. The event had three rounds: problem statement submission, implementation
feasibility study, and proposed methodology presentation. Fifteen teams advanced from
the first round, eight from the second, and these eight presented their methodologies in
the final round. The judges evaluated the presentations and announced the winners.
Firebase- A Beginner's Guide Workshop
22n d September 2023
The Computer Society of India (CSI) organized a workshop on "FIREBASE" on 22-09-23 to
provide students with practical knowledge and hands-on experience in using Firebase for
mobile and web development. The workshop began with a theoretical session in the
college's seminar hall, led by esteemed instructors. Manoj Kumar Koravangi kicked off the
session by highlighting the significance of Firebase in modern app development and its
ability to simplify complex tasks. The event aimed to empower students with essential
Firebase skills.
KnowinGit 2.0
6 t h October 2023
The Computer Society of India (CSI) VNRVJIET conducted "KNOWINGIT 2.0" on 06-10-
2023 for second-year CSI members, focusing on Git and GitHub for version control and
collaborative software development. The event began with an introduction to the
significance of version control in the development lifecycle. Basics of Git, including
commands, repositories, branches, and merging techniques, were covered through hands-
on activities and live demonstrations. The event aimed to enhance participants' skills in
using these essential tools.
Hackavista & Codeblitz
21s t November 2023
The Computer Society of India (CSI) organized "Hackavista and Codeblitz" on 21-11-23 for
first-year CSE and allied branches students. This event aimed to showcase coding skills,
foster competition, and encourage innovation. Participants learned about various coding
platforms, aiding in selecting ones that match their interests and career goals. The event
emphasized the importance of coding platforms in skill development and continuous
improvement. Additionally, it highlighted Hackathons, where students collaborated to
solve real-world problems within a limited time.
VJ Hackathon 3.0
24t h & 25t h November 2023
The Department of Computer Science and Engineering, along with CSI SBC VNRVJIET and
Time.dev, hosted the National Level VJ HACKATHON on November 24-25, 2023. This 24-
hour offline event at VNR VJIET aimed to provide a platform for students to showcase
their skills, foster collaboration, and learn from both successes and failures. The
hackathon sought to ignite inspiration, stimulate innovation, nurture creativity, and
enhance productivity among participants. It offered like-minded individuals the chance to
exchange ideas and contribute to technological advancements in computer science and
engineering.
Git and GitHub Hands on Workshop
14 t h & 15t h December 2023
During Convergence 2k23, Team CSI conducted a Git and GitHub workshop to enhance
students' understanding of version control and collaborative software development.
Distinguished speakers shared insights over two days of theoretical and hands-on
sessions, fostering an interactive learning environment. Participants engaged
enthusiastically, posing questions and seeking clarifications, which led to deeper
discussions. Git, launched by Linus Torvalds in 2005, is a distributed version control
system that tracks code changes, while GitHub, founded in 2008, enhances collaboration
with features like issue tracking and pull requests.
Paper Presentation
14 t h & 15t h December 2023
The Paper Presentation event saw
enthusiastic participation from students
across various disciplines, including
computer science, electronics, and
mechanical engineering. Participants
presented their research findings, theoretical
explorations, and practical implementations
through well-structured papers. The event
showcased the talent, excitement, and
intellectual curiosity of the student
community.
It demonstrated their academic abilities and highlighted their potential as future leaders
and innovators in the rapidly evolving technology landscape. This event underscored the
participants' readiness to contribute to technological advancements.
Campus Automation Contest
14t h & 15t h December 2023
As part of CONVERGENCE, CSI VNRVJIET and
GDSC VNRVJIET organized the Campus
Automation Contest, a 24-hour hackathon aiming
to revolutionize campus operations through
automation. The contest aimed to harness
students' collective creativity and technical skills
to develop innovative solutions for streamlining
administrative processes and enhancing student
experiences.
Participants were presented with diverse themes and challenges to explore and
implement cutting-edge technologies for optimizing efficiency across the campus
ecosystem. The event brought together budding technocrats and coding enthusiasts to
collaborate and innovate for the benefit of the campus community.
Holistic AI
10t h February 2024
Team CSI SBC conducted "HOLISTIC AI," a hands-on workshop aimed at unraveling AI's
potential and applications. The workshop introduced participants to AI foundations like
machine learning, neural networks, and natural language processing. Through interactive
sessions and live demos, participants gained practical experience and insights into AI's
revolutionary impact across various domains. Seasoned experts guided participants,
enhancing their understanding of AI technologies. The event fostered a deeper
appreciation for AI's role in shaping the future.
Navigator - Sail through your career with CSI's Wind
1s t & 2n d March 2024
The Computer Society of India hosted "Navigator - Sail Through Your Career with CSI's
Wind," a career guidance event for first-year students. Alumni speakers shared their career
journeys, addressing challenges and offering valuable advice. The event aimed to provide
practical career insights and skills necessary for the competitive job market. Organizing
committee members introduced the event's objectives, while managing and action
committee members emphasized CSI's significance and community impact. Overall, the
event aimed to guide students through diverse career options and equip them with the
knowledge to navigate their professional journeys effectively.
VNR Designathon
1s t & 2n d March 2024
The Department of CSE and CSBS, in collaboration
with various organizations including CCoE,
successfully hosted the National Level VNR DESIGN-
A-THON on March 1st and 2nd, 2024. The hackathon
aimed to provide a collaborative platform for
students to showcase their skills and learn from both
successes and failures.
It fostered innovation, creativity, and productivity among participants, encouraging the
exchange of ideas and contributing to technological advancements in computer science and
engineering. This 24-hour offline event at VNR VJIET college brought together like-minded
individuals to collaborate and solve real-world problems.
Web Alchemy
7t h May 2024
The Computer Society of India conducted "Web Alchemy" on 07-05-2024, an event aimed
at second-year students from all branches of VNRVJIET, held from 10:00 AM to 1:00 PM at
PEB-14 to PEB-18. The event provided a platform for students to enhance their web
development skills and foster innovation and collaboration. Participants competed in
challenging rounds focused on image replication and webpage creativity, allowing them to
apply their knowledge in a practical environment. The event aimed to test and develop
both creative and technical skills, promoting excellence in web development within the
student community.
Game-a-thon
18 t h May 2024
The Computer Society of India hosted "Game-a-thon 2K24" on 18-05-2024 for all first-
year students at VNRVJIET, focusing on gaming and strategic skills. Participants competed
in various games, showcasing their talents and strategic thinking in a competitive setting.
The event aimed to develop critical skills like problem-solving, quick decision-making, and
innovative strategizing. "Game-a-thon 2K24" revealed students' latent gaming abilities,
fostering a sense of community and boosting confidence. This exciting and encouraging
tournament blended talent, strategy, and dedication, creating a balanced and thrilling
competition.
Speak-a-thon
18 t h May 2024
The Computer Society of India (CSI) conducted an event, Speak-a-thon, an exciting event
conducted for curious and captivating minds on 18-05-2024. The event was open to all the
first-year students at VNRVJIET. It is an eloquence event which is part of Flash-Forte. It is
aimed at revealing the hidden speaking skills of the students where they combine ample
amount of creativity and intelligence. Participants immerse themselves in a competitive
environment, debating each other, creating analogies, expressing views and their personal
thoughts. This event stood as a perfect platform in unleashing different ideas, thoughts
and all of them put together in a nice proportion.
Design-a-thon
19 t h May 2024
The Computer Society of India (CSI) organized an online event Design-a-thon, for first-
year students of VNRVJIET. The competition had two rounds: a poster design round with
selected themes and a presentation round. Out of 76 students, 18 were chosen for the final
round based on the originality and visual appeal of their designs. Participants chose from
themes such as "Everyday Heroes," "Cyberbullying," "Gender Equality," "Fashion (Then vs
Now)," and "India in 2047." The event allowed first-year students to showcase their design
skills and receive professional feedback, fostering creativity and confidence.
Ideathon
19 t h May 2024
The Computer Society of India (CSI) conducted an event, Ideathon, a staggering event
brought forward for first years to put their artistic and innovative minds to test on 19-05-
2024. Ideathon is one of the four events in FlashForte. This opportunity lets students think
for a unique idea from existing problem statements. Participants chose from domains such
as “Education,” “Health care,” “Smart Agriculture,” “Sustainability,” “Campus Automation,”
“Technology.” All the participants have come up with undoubtedly creative and visionary
ideas. The event has helped the students to engage their minds into thinking in different
angles for a wide range domain.
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Computer Society of India
TECHNICAL
REPORTS
Augmented Reality
Augmented reality (AR) is an interactive experience that combines the real world with
computer-generated 3D content. AR can be characterized as a framework with three
fundamental highlights: the combination of real and virtual universes, real-time interaction,
and precise 3D enrollment of virtual and genuine objects. AR innovation uses cameras,
sensors, and computer vision calculations to track the real-world environment and
superimpose advanced substances onto it in real-time. AR can be experienced through an
assortment of gadgets, including smartphones, tablets, smart glasses, and headsets. AR
innovation has applications in an assortment of industries, including gaming, entertainment,
retail, education, and healthcare. With continued development and advancement, AR
innovation has the potential to change the way we connect with the world around us. Al
performs a few vital tasks to complement and improve the AR experience:
Create practical human body models and test objects. AI makes a difference in the
improvement of AR by identifying and analysing key facial highlights to reproduce human
faces or other objects. It makes a difference. Make reasonable 3D models that serve as
avatars or resources to utilise in a virtual environment.
Detecting and checking objects: Machine vision can distinguish and stamp objects. This
isn't fair for acknowledgment purposes, as virtual objects can be overlaid on real-world
objects to encourage AR interaction.
Text acknowledgment and interpretation: Clients basically point the camera at the content
to immediately interpret the text.
Beauty Tech: By combining visual computing, facial following, advanced color and shade
examination mapping, and versatile lighting recreation, AR virtual try-on involvement can
be more precise than ever some time recently.
-Kaja Aakash
22071A7222
AI&DS 2n d Year
Blockchain
Blockchain technology, initially developed to support Bitcoin, the first cryptocurrency, has
significantly evolved beyond its original purpose. It operates by storing data in blocks linked
sequentially to form an immutable chain. Once data is recorded, altering it becomes nearly
impossible without modifying all subsequent blocks and achieving consensus across the
network through mechanisms like Proof of Work (PoW) or Proof of Stake (PoS).
The most noteworthy property of blockchain is decentralization. Built on the peer-to-peer
network, all operating participants will have the same control, which further provides security
by removing central points of failure. The transactions in the blockchain are stored, literally, in
a block, and there are multiple such blocks in the blockchain. This is advantageous as it
provides a high level of accountability and trust because all parties involved in it have the
same piece of data and because of the blockchain that was developed to keep all data
transparent. This is crucially important for applications with the highest level of security and
trust requirements—in areas such as finance, supply chain, and healthcare. In banking, for
example, blockchain can simplify procedures and minimize fraud.
In addition, blockchain enables the use of smart contracts, which are self-executing contracts
with the terms of the agreement directly written into lines of code. This is used by platforms
like Ethereum to allow transactions to self-execute at the moment the conditions laid out in
the contract are matched with abolishing the biggest cost in the transaction, human
intervention. Acknowledging the challenges like scalability and regulatory compliance;
however, if these challenges are met, then the entire globe will soon be a user of blockchain
technology. Once these issues are ironed out, we will likely see blockchain completely
transform how we transact and handle data on a global scale.
-Abhigna Kuchukulla
22071A0537
CSE-A 2 n d Year
Deep Learning
Deep learning is a subset of machine learning. Traditional machine learning deals with the
concepts of training algorithms, which are used to learn and make predictions or conclusions
from some data. Deep learning takes this process to a whole new level; it involves working
with neural networks. These consist of neurons (singular units) organized in multiple layers
(input, hidden, and output). These neural networks are incredible at training a model with
complex data patterns.
Deep learning is a technology inspired by the human mind, as the human mind doesn't need
explicit instructions to train itself. Once a data point is fed into the network, it is continuously
processed using mathematical functions that add weights and biases. Once the process is
complete, the model will be trained. This powerful technology has found its way into managing
complex tasks such as facial recognition, speech recognition, and automation systems.
Everything that the human mind can do, deep learning can learn and perform.
Deep learning has revolutionized mankind's approach to technology. What once were complex
manual tasks are now as simple as snapping your fingers. Through deep learning, there have
been numerous advancements in healthcare, automotive, finance, etc. As we enter the age of
AI, deep learning will play a vital role in the evolution of technology and mankind.
- Tirupate Aniketh
22071A05C2
CSE-B 2n d Year
Extended Reality
It is an umbrella word, i.e., a proper canopy for three words, which are augmented reality
(AR), virtual reality (VR), and mixed reality (MR). To be precise, extended reality is a
technology that merges both the physical and digital worlds so seamlessly that users can
immerse themselves in a completely different world and have photorealistic visuals by
combining on-device processing, 5G, and edge cloud processing.
Here, augmented reality deals with the physical environment of the user, and virtual reality
deals with a completely digital environment, whereas mixed reality is a perfect combination of
both the physical and digital worlds. Extended reality (XR) has its uses in a wide range of
fields, including education, marketing, gaming, industrial manufacturing, health care, and
many more.
Recent research has proven that for more than 60% of the respondents, XR will be the most
streamed technology in five years. This technology also has a downside. It is also battling with
a lot of challenges, such as the high cost of implementation, the need to collect huge amounts
of personal data, the protection of users' emotions, and many more. There are significant
software and hardware issues where virtual objects in the real world are indistinguishable
from real objects. Each day, we are one step closer to solving these issues and expanding their
applications.
- Chaitra Nadipelly
22071A6642
AIML-A 2n d Year
Generative AI
Generative AI, also known as generative artificial intelligence, is the operation of AI to produce
new content such as text, photos, music, audio, and videos. It refers to deep-learning models
that can produce high-quality text, photos, and other content using the data on which they
were trained. Artificial intelligence has gone through multiple hype cycles, but those who
disagree believe that the launch of ChatGPT is a significant event. OpenAI's chatbot, powered
by its rearmost big language model, can write poems, tell jokes, and generate essays that look
like they were authored by a human.
The last time generative AI loomed so huge, the advances were in computer vision. Selfies
turned into Renaissance-style pictures, and prematurely aged faces flooded social media feeds.
Five years later, the leap ahead in natural language processing, as well as the potential of huge
language models to riff on almost any theme, has captured the public's imagination.
Numerous times, statisticians have employed generative models to examine numerical data.
Still, with the emergence of deep learning, it may now be applied to images, audio, and other
complicated data sources. Variational autoencoders (VAEs), which were introduced in 2013,
were among the first models to achieve this cross-over feat. VAEs were the first deep-learning
models employed to produce realistic illustrations and voices.
- Vellanki Chenchu Dedeepya
22071A0563
CSE-A 2n d Year
Swarm Robotics
In general, "swarms" refer to the coordinated collective action of a large number of tiny
entities, such as digital actors, robots, or biological organisms. Scientists have been captivated
by swarms in nature due to their ability to solve problems with collective intelligence.
Swarm robotics is an emerging subject that aims to harness the power of huge groups of
relatively simple robots cooperating in a coordinated manner to achieve complex tasks.
The research has led to a three-step pattern:
Design (individual and collective) → Analysis (micro and macro models) → Collective behavior
Potential Applications
1.Search & Rescue: By effectively navigating challenging situations, swarm robotics can find
and save people who are stuck in disaster areas, speeding up reaction times and lowering
the risk to human rescuers.
2.Building: Robot swarms can work together to collaboratively build large structures
autonomously. This results in shorter construction periods, lower construction costs, and
better safety, especially in hazardous regions.
3.Medical Uses: By navigating through the human body, miniature robot swarms can
provide targeted drug therapies, carry out minimally invasive operations, and support
diagnostic procedures, providing accurate and more comfortable medical interventions.
4.Exploration: They are capable of obtaining important data for exploration missions while
exploring difficult and remote locations like deep marine areas, space, inside volcanoes, or
other dangerous terrain on Earth.
Swarm robotics, despite its challenges like physical capture and communication
vulnerabilities, is rapidly advancing. Ongoing research is focused on robust solutions to
enhance system reliability. As more work goes into this field, it is clear that it has a huge scope
for growth and possible solutions for many of our problems. By using the collective
intelligence of robot swarms, we can now find the right solutions to complex scenarios with
greater efficiency and effectiveness, leading to a new era of autonomous and adaptive robotic
systems. There is a lot in store in the fields of robotics and automation, giving rise to new
exciting paths.
- Harshitha Upadhyayula
22071A3259
CSBS 2n d Year
Communication
Communication technology is all about the ways we send and receive information. Now think
about mobile phones, laptops, tablets, radios, the internet, and social media. These tools have
made it so much easier to stay in touch with people, whether they are next to the door or
across the globe. Now, we can instantly text, video call, and collaborate with each other online.
As these technologies get better and updated day-to-day, they’re changing the world and our
lifestyle and work, making everything faster and more connected, and doing business across
the world.
One of the biggest advantages of modern technology is its ability to connect people instantly,
no matter the distance. Families, friends, and relatives can stay in touch through video calls
and messaging apps like WhatsApp. It is easier to maintain relationships when they are far
apart. Businesses benefit from this communication technology as well; they can collaborate
with people in different time zones, which reduces the need for travel. Another advantage is
the accessibility of information.
With the internet in our hands, we can quickly find answers to questions, learn new skills, and
stay updated on the latest news. But these advanced technologies cause some problems, like
privacy concerns, misinformation, and less face-to-face interaction, causing stress.
- Shaik Mohammad Hussain
22071A05J3
CSE-C 2n d Year
Virtual Reality
"Imagine entering a totally new world with just a device on, where you can reach your
imagination.“ This is fully possible with VR, where indeed the insolvable becomes possible.
The term virtual reality was coined in 1987 by Jaron Lanier, whose exploration and
engineering contributed a lot to the VR industry. Virtual reality (VR) is a revolutionary
advancement in computer modeling and simulation that enables a person to interact with an
artificial 3D visual or sensitive environment.
VR operations immerse and engage the druggies in computer-generated terrain that
stimulates reality through the use of interactive bias, which shoots and admits information
and is present in different forms like gloves, goggles, helmets, and numerous others.
The visions are created by stir detectors that pick up the drug's movement and acclimate the
view on the screen, generally in real time.
The operations of VR are endless and are in nearly every discipline, like
Health Care
Education
Entertainment
Tourism
Marketing
Architecture
Real estate, etc.
Healthcare
VR in healthcare is used for surgical training, allowing medical professionals to exercise
complex procedures in a virtual, riskless terrain. Also, in patient recuperation by doing a lot of
exercises that enhance physical remedy and pain operations, the VR environment distracts
patients during painful procedures.
Education
VR transforms education by furnishing a virtual motivating terrain that enhances
understanding and reduces distractions. Scholars can take virtual field passages, conduct
complex trials in a virtual lab, or explore the world without actually moving. VR makes
learning more engaging and interactive.
- Jithamanyu Pola
22071A05Q5
CSE-D 2n d Year
Cloud Computing
Cloud computing is the supply of computer services, such as servers, storage, databases,
networking, software, and analytics, via the internet, sometimes known as "the cloud." This
paradigm eliminates the need to buy and maintain infrastructure by enabling consumers and
enterprises to access and store data, execute programs, and use computational power. Cloud
computing has transformed IT operations by offering resources that are scalable, cost-
effective, and accessible. Well-known companies like Google Cloud Platform (GCP), Microsoft
Azure, and Amazon Web Services (AWS) provide a variety of services to meet different
demands, ranging from basic data storage options to sophisticated machine learning and big
data processing.
There are numerous benefits to using cloud computing. Firstly, because customers just pay for
the resources they use and don't need to pay for costly equipment, it offers high cost savings.
Secondly, it offers flexibility, making it simple for companies to adjust their operations in
response to changes in demand. Small and emerging businesses that need to expand quickly
without being suffocated by conventional IT infrastructure can especially benefit from this.
Furthermore, cloud services guarantee disaster recovery and high
availability by storing data in many locations for backup. Lastly, the cloud provides
international teamwork by granting access to data and apps from any location with an internet
connection.
To conclude, cloud computing has drastically changed our understanding of technology and
improved its usability and accessibility for all. Although there are still obstacles to overcome,
such as privacy and data security issues, cloud computing's many benefits make it an essential
component of technology that will inspire further advancements and improvements.
- Keerthika Reddy Challa
22071A66E1
AIML-C 2 n d Year
Biotechnology
Biotechnology refers to the application of science and technological methods to
microorganisms or their by-products to make advancements in the fields of human and animal
health, agriculture, the environment, and the manufacturing industry. Throughout history,
microorganisms have been used to prepare foods such as bread and vaccines, as well as to
produce desirable plant varieties and preserve food.
In medicine, using biotechnology for medical applications is also called red biotechnology.
Recombinant insulin was created utilizing E. coli to meet the needs of diabetic people. Gene
therapy can treat hereditary illnesses if introduced at an early stage. Using vectors such as
retrovirus, adenovirus, and herpes simplex virus, the faulty or inactive gene is replaced with
the normal gene. Molecular diagnosis employs techniques such as recombinant DNA and ELISA
to detect diseases early. Pharmacogenomics has enabled the development of tailored drugs for
diseases such as cancer, depression, HIV, and asthma. Genetic restoration aims to restore
endangered species of animals and plants.
In Industry and Environment: Using biotechnology for developing new chemicals and biofuels
is called gray or white technology. Industrial biotechnology boosts productivity by using fewer
resources and less power, which also often leads to better-quality products. Biotechnology is
used to increase the shelf life of foods and reduce food waste. Biofuels have the potential to
reduce emissions. Enzymes from microorganisms are also used as biocatalysts in the
production of chemicals. Biotechnology also helps in waste management by using techniques
like phytoremediation and bioremediation. In agriculture, the creation of genetically modified
crops that are pest-resistant and more tolerant of environmental stress has potentially more
nutritional value than the original crop. In biofertilizers.
Despite its numerous advantages, biotechnology is not without its drawbacks.
Biotechnology can increase product costs and impact distribution equity. Ethical concerns
arise about the use of biotechnology. Safety concerns include possible biowarfare use and the
unknown long-term effects of consuming genetically modified products.
-Kollipara Madhuri
22071A05G1
CSE-C 2n d Year
Genomics
Genomics is the rudimentary section of the microbiology study. Genomes, being the cardinal
creation of the human world, need deep diving. Genomics, in basic words, means the study of
human genes, their interactions with each other, and the nature around them. Frederick
Sanger, known as the father of genomics, and three other scientists have made revolutionary
developments in the field.
When beginning to understand about genomics, the initial step is to know about the DNA,
which is a hereditary component in the human body and consists of the genetic information
that helps in the development and functioning of the person.
The complete set of DNA in the human body together means the genome, and the study of this
is known as genomics. This study of genomes has led to various remarkable developments in
the health care domain. Projects like the human genome project were started with the root
intention of generating an end product that would, in return, help in dealing with a wide range
of medical ailments.
Every human malady has its roots in the genes. Illnesses like cancer, diabetes, skin disorders,
and many more are mostly transmitted through hereditary. The study of genomes has enabled
doctors with powerful resources to work on these complex diseases. Even though these works
on genomics might take longer than expected to be converted into medical elements, they are
known to be very effective.
These genomics are not only applicable for humans but for animals and plants too. Genomics
helps in the early detection of a particular disease, even before the symptoms start showing.
This genomics is shifting the medical boat from treatment to cure itself. Kemal Malik, a
member of Bayer board management, has stated that genomics is revolutionising people’s
ideas not just of health care but of illness itself.
- M. Sai Meghana
222071A05P6
CSE-D 2n d Year
Autonomous Rapid Transit
Autonomous Rapid Transit, referred to as ART (in transport), is a well-guided system designed
for convenient, efficient, and pollution-free public transportation in China. ART is seen as a
combination of bus, train, and tram that can carry up to 300 passengers. ART is a semi-
automatic electric vehicle that has a driver to perform acceleration and braking. It is a rubber-
tyred vehicle that operates on sensors and cameras following two dashed lines (virtual tracks)
without any track on the road or riles. Systems built-in with ART provide information about
certain things, as follows:
The navigation system helps the transit know about path tracking, route directions, alternate
routes, and traffic signals.
The Lane Assistance System maintains transit in a specific lane.
The collision warning system sends a warning sign to the driver whenever the vehicle is out of
the lane or when the safety distance is below a certain level. Hence, ascertaining the safety of
passengers.
ART uses lithium-titanate batteries (rechargeable), which run up to 40 km per full charge and
can be rapidly (re-)charged automatically at specific stations via current collectors, decreasing
waiting time. No gases are released, and there is no usage of petrol or diesel; hence, air
pollution can be decreased, and oil consumption is also reduced. Hence, it is also eco-friendly.
Therefore, the main features of autonomous rapid transit include automation, safety,
efficiency, and capacity.
Concluding, autonomous rapid transit is one of the evolutionary technologies in the field of
transportation, offering an innovative and eco-friendly solution to one of the major challenges
faced by modern-busy places at a low operational cost.
-M. Nehanjani
22071A7222
AIDS 2n d Year
Automation
One of the effects of the digitalization of industries is automation. This tool makes an activity
more efficient, faster, and germinates innovation. For content writing and management, aids
like AI-generated writing software enable teams to create content quickly and competently,
with creative work emerging from the writer instead of a computer (though with plenty of
creative seeds planted by the assistants in their minds). Automated CMS: Automated CMS
ensures that articles, blogs, and social posts are scheduled and published at the right time to
maintain a constant sea of content for the viewers.
Apart from content creation, automation boosts the efficiency of your marketing and customer
management significantly. Automated email marketing solutions help kill your subscriber list
zombies, personalize campaigns, and assess both success and failure to improve sender
performance.
The use of social media management tools can also assist in the scheduling and analysis of
posts to maintain a regular, strong online presence. CRM: CRM systems help you remember
when subscription renewals are due, how to engage and re-engage subscribers, and keep tabs
on what your subscribers like so you can give them what they want. Incorporation of
Automation: Automation allows businesses to not only enhance operational efficiency but also
reallocate resources to innovation and strategic growth.
- P. Nikhita Chowdary
22071A05Q6
CSE-D 2n d Year
Space Technology
Nowadays, space technologies are utilised in different regions of our lives. They support a
wide range of crucial capacities, such as navigation, communications, climate estimation, and
security.
Innovations in space technology have advanced significantly in recent times.
SILICA AEROGELS: Silica Aerogels, A recent advancement at ISRO, which is among the
lightest materials in the world, they are used in different applications, such as space suits,
rovers, and jackets for use in extremely cold environments. In expansion, they can be
utilised in the fabrication of cement and paint, as well as adsorbent materials for oil spills.
S-BAND UNFURLABLE ANTENNA: The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has
developed and deployed a 6 M diameter spherical antenna for use in space. This is marked
as ISRO's largest satellite antenna. It is primarily used for giving five-spot beams over
India's terrain. The utilisation of the frequency helps to improve the efficiency of the
signal. The satellite is equipped with a 70-volt bus. This makes it the first Indian
communication satellite to operate successfully.
Due to the expanding accessibility of space-based innovations, their applications and parts in
different areas have been broadly recognized. For instance, observing natural issues and
human rights infringements is being carried out using these space advances.
-B. Preetham Jonah
23075A7202
AIDS 2 n d Year
Mocobot Technology
Imagine you’re a filmmaker and you’re trying to achieve a shot. You have already used
traditional camera setups such as gimbals, cranes, etc., yet you are not satisfied. For shots that
cannot be achieved by conventional setups handled by humans, a motorized precision or camera
robot, more famously known as Mocobot was designed. Mind you, Mocobot is not a camera but a
type of robot, if you will, that helps in achieving impossible shots at a speed unheard of. The
Mocobot studio in India is located in Bangalore, with its previous projects and achievements
available for us to check out at their website, http://www.mocobotstudio.com/index.php.
This technology consists of a rig to which a camera (of any type) can be fixed. Then, the
movements of the camera, the subject of the shot, and the speed of the camera must be
specified to the robot through the software, following which the shot can be achieved. The
main advantage of this technology is that it can carry cameras of any weight while also moving
them at high speeds, both of which are not humanly possible. As a result of these
preprogrammed movements, we can achieve shots that otherwise require a lot of computer
graphics, which may not look realistic. For the shots taken in front of a green screen, the
tracking data of the camera robot helps the VFX artists during the post production phase,
making it easier for them to design the animation and graphics.
While the camera robot technology is primarily used for advertisements, particularly for
mobiles, it has also broken new ground in the field of feature films, with Hollywood
blockbusters like Ant-Man and the Wasp (2018) using it for highly stylized sequences. More
recently, Mocobot technology has been used in Indian films like Vikram (2022) and Leo
(2023). And more upcoming films are said to use this exciting technology that promises to
redefine the landscape of combat sequences and action filmmaking.
- A K Ram Mohan Naidu
22071A6667
AIML-B 2 n d Year
Precision Agriculture
Agriculture, the backbone of human civilization, has experienced significant innovations to
satisfy our needs. One of the greatest innovations was precision agriculture. It is the practice
or strategy of enhancing crop yields and supporting management decisions through the use of
advanced technology and analytical tools. It involves using agricultural technologies to
measure big data through systems including temperature, soil health, amount of oxygen,
water, sun, and insects. It also includes the age of soil, carbon levels, and different colors of
sunlight; all of them affect the growth and development in various stages. By knowing where it
is, where it needs to be, and what stage it is in, management can make more educated and
valuable decisions. This is known as precision agriculture. With precision agriculture, farmers
will need to know what inputs are needed in what amounts. This requires collecting a lot of
information from different sources.
For example, in different parts of the field, information like soil nutrients, the presence of
insects, the level of greenness of the plants, and the weather forecast. Once the information is
collected, it will be analyzed to produce a few agronomic recommendations. Precision
agriculture uses technologies such as GPS, soil sensors, yield monitors, remote sensing, IoT, AI,
robotics, and automation to make farms more efficient.
This modern concept has the advantages of boosting production, decreasing labor time, and
optimizing fertilizer and pesticide usage. It also addresses water scarcity by promoting the
right use of water.
Challenges limiting broader adoption include high costs of technology, complex technology,
Internet issues, and resistance to change.
Overcoming these challenges is essential to making precision agriculture successful.
- Reshma Mulpuri
22071A05P7
CSE-D 2 n d Year
Underwater Wireless Technology
Underwater wireless technology is an innovative field that allows communication and data
transmission beneath the water's surface without the need for physical cables. This technology
is essential for various applications, such as marine research, environmental monitoring,
underwater exploration, and military operations.
Acoustic signals, or sound waves, are commonly used for underwater communication because
they can travel far in water with little loss of strength. They are utilized in submarines,
underwater vehicles, and sensor networks for tasks like collecting ocean data and navigation.
However, acoustic communication has drawbacks such as slow data transfer, delays, and
interference from marine life and human activities. On the other hand, optical signals use light
to send data underwater, offering faster data transfer. They are suitable for short-distance
communication, like in underwater vehicles or diver systems. However, optical signals don't
travel far because light is absorbed and scattered in water, especially in cloudy or murky
conditions.
RF signals can also be used underwater, but they are only effective over very short distances
because they weaken quickly in water. They are often used in shallow water or for near-
surface communication where the signal doesn't need to travel far. However, RF signals have a
limited range and consume a lot of power, making them less practical for deep-sea use.
Underwater wireless technology enables real-time data collection from sensors, which is
crucial for studying marine life, water quality, and ocean phenomena. It monitors pollution,
temperature, and coral reefs. It aids in exploration by mapping the seafloor, locating resources,
and exploring shipwrecks. Additionally, it supports military operations by providing secure
communication for submarines and drones, enhancing naval operations.
- Mohammad Sadhik
22071A6732
DS-A 2n d Year
Unity
Unity is a real-time platform for 2D, 3D, AR, and VR creations. It is one of the most popular,
powerful, and versatile game engines. It was developed by Unity Technologies in 2005. It
comprises all the tools and features for creating both 2D and 3D games and interactive
simulations. Unity has been identified for its user-friendly interfaces and strong asset pipeline,
making it convenient for both beginners and experienced developers.
Unity offers users the ability to create games, and the engine offers primary scripting in C# to
handle code and logic using mono and IL2CPP scripting. Unity's animation system, featuring
the Animator component and Mecanim animation system, allows for complex animation
workflows, including blend trees, state machines, and inverse kinematics, supporting both
skeletal and sprite animations. Unity also includes special drag-and-drop functionality.
Unity is a cross-platform engine that is supported on various operating systems, like MAC,
Windows, and Linux. And building games can be possible on numerous platforms, like mobile,
desktop, virtual reality, etc. The supported console platforms for Unity are PlayStation, Xbox,
Nintendo Switch, Oculus, Google’s ARCore, and Apple’s ARKit.
Some famous games that are developed using Unity are Temple Run, Among Us, Pokemon GO,
Subway Surfers, and more.
- A. Sai Pranavi
22071A05D5
CSE-C 2 n d Year
Natural Language Processing
Natural language processing (NLP) is a branch of artificial intelligence (AI) that allows
computers to understand, produce, and interact with human language. Many consumers have
likely engaged with NLP without being aware of it. Examples of virtual assistants that rely on
natural language processing (NLP) include Alexa, Cortana, Siri, and the Oracle Digital Assistant
(ODA).
NLP works by using algorithms to process and analyze large amounts of human language data.
It starts by breaking text or speech into smaller parts, like words or phrases, and then
analyzing these to understand their meanings, relationships, and context. Machine learning
models, trained on extensive datasets, find patterns and make predictions. This allows
computers to comprehend, interpret, and generate human language, powering applications
such as translation, sentiment analysis, and virtual assistants.
Natural language processing (NLP) encounters various challenges, yet its promising
advantages for businesses justify the endeavor. Human languages, exceeding 6,500 in number,
exhibit complexity and diversity, each governed by distinct rules. To enable machine
comprehension, language undergoes syntax and semantic analysis to understand grammar
and context. Data scientists are tasked with instructing NLP tools to navigate complexities
such as context, ambiguities, and nuances in language, transcending mere definitions and
word arrangements.
- CH V Sai Srija
22071A05E1
CSE-C 2 n d Year
DDaattaa SScciieennccee
Fundamentally, data science is the art and science of drawing conclusions and knowledge from
data using a variety of techniques, such as data mining, statistical analysis, and machine
learning.
Data science is crucial in the current data-centric society, impacting industries, creativity, and
uncovering hidden insights in vast datasets. Essentially, data science involves utilizing
statistical analysis, machine learning algorithms, and domain experts to uncover valuable
insights and knowledge from data. Data science is responsible for bringing about
groundbreaking advancements, whether in predicting customer behavior, optimizing
company operations, or healthcare.
As a result, data science is the foundation of modern innovation and presents countless
potential for all sectors. While we continue on its possible journey.
-Sasi Chowdary
22071A67C4
DS-B 2n d Year
Internet of Things
Imagine a life where you just sit in your car and then it starts on its own, even without any of
your interference. Now, this isn’t a dream; it is possible with the IoT. The Internet of Things is
a network of devices embedded with software, sensors, and connectivity to enable objects to
exchange data with the manufacturer, operator, and other connected devices.
IoT devices share the sensor data they collect by connecting to a gateway, which is a central
hub where those devices can send data. Before the data is shared, it is also sent to an edge
device, where that data is analyzed locally. Analyzing the data locally reduces the volume of
data sent to the cloud, which minimizes bandwidth consumption.Organizations in various
industries are using IoT to operate more efficiently, provide enhanced service to customers,
and increase the value of their businesses.
The IoT helps people live and work smarter. The IoT has many applications in almost every
sector, from agriculture to space exploration. The IoT is transforming our lives in healthcare,
agriculture, smart irrigation systems, cities, smart traffic management systems, etc.
Autonomous vehicles are one of the most notable examples of IoT in action, with longtime
automotive companies such as BMW Group, Ford Motor Company, and General Motors, along
with newer entries such as Tesla, all working on self-driving vehicles. So, the IoT is changing
extraordinary things into our new normal.
- Shravani Pothula
22071A0553
CSE-A 2n d Year
Quantum Computing
Quantum computing is a new field of technology that uses the concept of quantum mechanics
to process information in a fundamentally different way when compared to classical
computers. Classical bits can be either 0 or 1. Unlike classical bits, quantum bits, or qubits, can
exist in multiple states simultaneously, i.e., be both 0 and 1 simultaneously. This property is
called superposition. Another important feature is entanglement, where one qubit's state is
linked to another's, regardless of how far apart they are. This allows quantum computers to
perform complex calculations such as optimization problems, simulations of molecular
structures for drug discovery, and advanced cryptography much more efficiently than classical
computers.
Recently, there have been some exciting developments in the field of quantum computing.
Companies like IBM, Google, and Rigetti are making advanced quantum computers. In 2019,
Google announced that its Sycamore processor achieved “quantum supremacy." The Sycamore
processor solved a problem in 200 seconds that would take a supercomputer around
thousands of years to solve. IBM also has a platform called Quantum Experience, which lets
people run quantum algorithms through the internet.
Also, there have been improvements in making qubits more stable and reducing errors. These
improvements are important for making quantum computers more practical and reliable.
Although still in its early stages, quantum computing has the potential to revolutionize many
industries and address challenges that classical computers cannot handle.
- Shruthika Sunku
22071A6652
AIML-A 2n d Year
AI in Finance
AI has had a massive impact on the financial industry. Recently, AI has emerged as a powerful
companion in almost all sectors worldwide and has entered the finance field. With the boom of
AI, there have been major changes in finance due to the impressive ability of AI to analyze and
identify complex patterns and come up with conclusions to suggest less loss and make well-
informed decisions for customers. Machine learning has developed incredible algorithms that
have been trained on massive amounts of data to help predict financial aspects such as
investments and loans, and businesses and financial institutions have significantly benefited
from this.
Some of the major applications of AI in finance are risk assessment, fraud detection and
prevention, credit decisions, personalized banking, automating tasks, and AI-driven chatbots
to assist customers, address queries, and offer financial advice. Banks and financial institutions
have switched to machine learning algorithms to determine a customer’s loan eligibility and
loan-paying ability. Fraud detection systems work on the basic principle of analyze and
compare, i.e., they analyze and predict a person’s buying pattern and are trained to trigger
alerts if there is a deviation from the regular trend. According to Forbes, AI can analyze a
person’s spending patterns, which can potentially suggest loan behavior and
recommendations. It is also being used to automate repetitive and time-consuming tasks,
which can allow employees to work on more impactful things. To conclude, embracing AI is
not just a choice but a necessity in today’s modern world.
-Srikruthi Muthyam
22071A05R4
CSE-D 2n d Year
Nanotechnology
Imagine a material as tiny as a dust particle but so powerful to innovate the entire industry—
welcome to the world of nanotechnology. This article gives a brief introduction to
nanotechnology, the science behind it, its applications, and future perspectives.
Nanotechnology is the study and manipulation of matter (atoms) whose at least one
dimension is nearly 1 to 100 nanometers. A nanometer is nearly equal to 1 lakh times thinner
than the hair of a human. The materials are called nanomaterials. At the nanoscale range, they
show different physical, biological, and chemical properties as compared to the whole material
as a bulk. This behavior is the result of the quantum effect, increased surface area, and self-
assembly, which can cause a change in reactivity, strength, etc.
One of the most important applications of nanotechnology is in the medical field. Here,
nanoparticles are created that deliver medicine directly to the targeted cells by reducing side
effects and increasing efficacy. Examples of these nanoparticles are dendrimers, liposomes,
etc. These particles are also used to detect some diseases in their early stages. There are also
nanoparticle-based therapies such as gene therapy (used to treat genetic disorders),
photothermal therapy (light-absorbing agents such as gold are used to convert light to heat
energy, and that heat energy is used to kill targeted cells), and photodynamic therapy.
In the department of electronics and computing, nanotechnology is used to design small, fast,
and more energy-efficient devices. For example, design transistors in semiconductors.
Nanotechnology improves the performance of electronic devices by increasing speed, storage
capacity, etc. And it is also used to design flexible and wearable electronics such as smart
watches, laptops with flexible screens, wearable sensors, etc. Looking forward, the future with
nanotechnology is so bright, with amazing innovation in various fields in new ways and
knowing the unique characteristics of nanomaterials.
- Srivarshika Reddy
22071A05J1
CSE-C 2n d Year
Military Technology
Warfare is advancing quickly due to cutting-edge advances like counterfeit insights (AI),
mechanical autonomy, and quantum computing. These developments present novel strategies
of combat and move the adjustment of control. To keep up its quality in the future, the Indian
Armed Forces must grasp modernization.
The Indian Armed Forces are putting cash into fake insights (AI) to alter how they battle. One
key venture, Bhim, is working on AI-powered rambles, unmanned ground vehicles, and
pontoons. These apparatuses will make the Army’s operations more effective.
The Armed Forces collaborates with colleges and private companies to create cyber
innovations. They’re also preparing specialists in cyber fighting. For this case, they’ve
collaborated with the Indian Organization of Innovation Delhi to make a cybersecurity
program for building students.
By contributing to AI and cyber capabilities, the Indian Armed Forces looks to reshape its key
viewpoint. Bhim and comparative ventures and scholarly and industry collaborations
reinforce the Army’s readiness for future challenges. Overcoming display impediments is
essential to completely tackling these advancements and guaranteeing strong national
security.
- Suhas Uppala
22071A6661
AIML-A 2n d Year
Salesforce
Salesforce offers applications for sales, customer care, marketing automation, e-commerce,
analytics, and application development, in addition to customer relationship management
(CRM). Apex, a proprietary Java-like programming language, is used in the development of
Salesforce applications to create HTML, first using the "Visualforce" framework. Businesses
may track customer behavior, market to clients, and perform a host of other functions with the
Salesforce CRM. A CRM platform allows you to explore all of your metrics and data in greater
detail. You can also create a dashboard that presents your data graphically. Furthermore, you
can use automation to have customized outreach. Salesforce can be accessed by users via a
desktop program, mobile app, or web browser. Salesforce gives users the ability to design and
develop unique fields, reports, processes, and objects, as well as integrate them with other
software programs. Salesforce uses a single database structure to store data. Multiple tenants
can reside on a single instance of a software server. Salesforce development is based on a
metadata-driven approach. This frees up developers to concentrate solely on creating the
application. This platform, which is powered by metadata, facilitates easy modification and
growth.Salesforce offers a robust API resource.
Salesforce offers SAAS (Software as a Service) offerings, which allow you to download and use
the integrated software directly. Platform as a Service, or PAAS, provides the architecture and
platform for you to create apps and websites. Infrastructure as a Service, or IAAS, is essential
to the development of Salesforce, even if it isn't very popular. One of Salesforce's most
important and well-liked products is Sales Cloud. Salesforce App Cloud: This service allows
you to create unique applications that are compatible with the Salesforce operating system.
Salesforce Service Cloud: Salesforce helps with customer service as well. This is a platform for
services used by the support staff of your company. It offers functions such as social
networking plug-ins and case tracking.
- Rudrabatla Vashishta
22071A7252
AIDS 2n d Year
Reverse Aging
Around July 2023, researchers from Harvard Medical School, the University of Maine, and MIT
published a research paper titled "Chemically Induced Reprogramming to Reverse Cellular
Aging." In simple terms, it is a paper on reversing the process of aging. It is a replacement for
gene therapy that focuses on the rejuvenation of cells, making them younger than before, but
involves a potential risk of cancer if not performed with precautions. In this research,
scientists have identified a chemical method to reprogram cells, transforming them into a
newer state.
In this research, the mice were the test subjects. The researchers then demonstrated that it is
possible to slow down, or even reverse, the process of ageing by manipulating gene activity in
mice. However, it has not yet been proven the same for humans, but it still stands as a hope to
combat early mortality and age-related diseases. A similar kind of research is currently being
performed in the Altos Lab, backed by Jeff Bezos, former CEO and co-founder of Amazon, along
with Yuri Milner, a Russian-Israeli businessman. If this research is proven successful for
humans, it will completely revolutionize the healthcare industry, as it carries some great
applications.
Diseases like Alzheimer's and cardiovascular diseases, which can attack humans in old age, can
be delayed if this works. Regenerative medicines might come into the picture; stem cell
therapies, tissue engineering, and organ regeneration could benefit significantly. It also finds
applications in the cosmetic industry. Overall, this might be a great discovery for mankind
while raising questions about ethics and ethnicity.
-Vishwanth Talluri
22071A05R6
CSE-D 2n d Year
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Computer Society of India
CAREER
GUIDANCE
Higher Education: SoP
Higher education plays a vital role in shaping an individual’s career and personal growth. For
many students, pursuing a postgraduate degree or specialized certification abroad opens
doors to world-class education, better career opportunities, and a global perspective. With
increasing competition for spots in top universities, it has become essential to present a strong
application. While academic qualifications and test scores are important, one of the most
critical elements of an application is the Statement of Purpose (SOP). The SOP serves as a
personal introduction to the admissions committee, providing insights beyond your academic
achievements.
The Statement of Purpose (SOP) is an essential component of applications for higher
education, particularly for graduate and doctoral programs. It allows applicants to
communicate their academic background, career aspirations, and reasons for choosing a
particular program or institution. The SOP is an opportunity to tell your story—why you are
passionate about the field, what experiences have shaped your goals, and how the program
will help you achieve them. A compelling SOP can set you apart from other applicants and
strengthen your overall application. For instance, an Indian student applying for a Master’s in
Artificial Intelligence at a US university might describe their undergraduate research in
machine learning, how internships with tech companies have influenced their career path, and
why the specific university’s focus on AI research aligns perfectly with their professional goals.
A well-crafted SOP should include several key elements: a clear introduction to your academic
background, specific reasons for choosing the program, relevant experiences (like internships
or research), and an explanation of your future career objectives. It should also reflect why the
chosen university is a perfect fit, based on factors such as faculty, resources, and research
opportunities. The SOP is not just about summarizing your resume—it is a chance to
demonstrate your passion, commitment, and unique qualifications for the program. Ultimately,
a strong SOP can be the difference between acceptance and rejection, making it one of the
most important documents in the higher education application process.
Publishing of Project Ideas
Publishing project ideas and showcasing them in expos or open houses offer students a
valuable opportunity to share their work, receive feedback, and gain recognition. Whether
working on an innovative idea alone or with a team, understanding how to create, participate,
and prepare for a presentation is key to a successful experience.
1. How to Create a Project
Creating a project that stands out involves several stages, from choosing a topic to finalizing
details. Here are some steps to consider:
Identify a Problem: Start by identifying a real-world issue or an area you are passionate
about. A project that aims to solve an actual problem or address a common need will likely
have a stronger impact.
Research and Define Objectives: Conduct research to understand the problem thoroughly.
Define clear objectives, outlining what the project intends to achieve and why it is
essential.
Plan the Project: Draft a roadmap for your project. Outline the necessary steps,
technologies to use, and resources required. Planning helps in managing time effectively
and maintaining focus.
Develop the Solution: Begin developing your project according to the plan. Depending on
the type of project, this might involve coding, designing, or creating a prototype.
Remember to test frequently to catch any issues early.
Document the Process: Keep track of your development process, challenges faced, and
solutions you implemented. Good documentation is valuable for presenting your project
and can impress judges by demonstrating a thorough approach.
2. Where to Find and How to Participate
Participating in project expos or open houses usually involves a few straightforward steps.
Look out for announcements from your college, technical clubs, or online platforms like
GitHub, Devpost, and Kaggle, which often host events for project showcases. Once an event
catches your interest, register by submitting a brief proposal or abstract of your project. This
submission should clearly explain the project’s purpose and potential impact, as a clear and
engaging proposal helps to capture the organizers’ attention.
Some events may have entry-level requirements, such as a specific area of study or a minimum
completion level for the project. Always review the eligibility criteria carefully.
3. Guidelines for Submission
Most project expos and open houses provide specific guidelines on how to submit and present
a project. Below are some common guidelines to consider:
Documentation: Submit a report detailing your project’s background, objectives,
methodology, results, and future scope. Keeping it simple and easy to understand, with
clear headings and bullet points, is recommended.
Presentation: Prepare a presentation that covers the key points of your project. Using
visuals, diagrams, and short videos, if allowed, can make complex ideas easier to grasp.
Prototype/Demo: Create a prototype or live demo if possible. Demos enhance
understanding and make the project stand out.
4. Preparing for the Presentation
A strong presentation helps convey your ideas effectively and can make your project
memorable. Here are some tips to prepare:
Know Your Audience: Tailor your presentation to be accessible and engaging, especially if
the audience might not have in-depth technical knowledge.
Highlight the Problem-Solving Aspect: Clearly explain the problem your project addresses,
making it easier for others to understand its significance.
Practice for Questions: Anticipate potential questions from judges or the audience and
practice responses to show a deep understanding of your work.
Showcase the Impact: Emphasize how your project can make a difference, whether by
saving time, improving efficiency, or solving a real-world issue.
Refine Your Pitch: Practice explaining your project in 3-5 minutes, focusing on key points
to stay calm and concise.
5. Weightage and Evaluation
Different events prioritize different aspects of a project. Common evaluation factors include:
Innovation (30-40%): Creativity and originality are often rewarded highly, as expos
prioritize unique solutions to existing problems.
Technical Skills (20-30%): This evaluates the complexity and execution of your project.
Demonstrating advanced techniques or technologies can earn higher points.
Impact (20-30%): Projects with real-world applications or solutions to common
challenges are rated highly.
Presentation (10-20%): The ability to clearly and effectively communicate your project’s
value is crucial.
6. Advantages of Participating
Participating in project expos and open houses provides various benefits:
Networking: These events allow students to connect with industry professionals,
professors, and peers. Building connections here can lead to mentorship, collaboration,
and future opportunities.
Internships and Job Offers: Companies often scout expos and open houses for talent. A
well-executed project can make a strong impression, potentially leading to an internship
or job offer.
Funding Opportunities: If your project idea has potential, it may attract funding from
organizations or venture capitalists interested in supporting further development.
Skill Development: Preparing for an expo builds valuable project management,
communication, and technical skills.
Publishing project ideas and participating in expos or open houses can be highly rewarding. By
understanding how to create, submit, and prepare for these events, one can confidently
present their project. Not only does this process improve skills, but it also opens doors to
valuable feedback, networking, funding, and career opportunities.
Ms Bandi Venkata Yamini
17071A0566
SDE 2, Amazon
Coding and Tips
Competitive coding is a valuable skill, combining problem-solving abilities with potential
career opportunities in the tech industry. For those serious about competitive programming,
mastering data structures and algorithms (DSA) is crucial, as these form the foundation for
tackling coding challenges. Key data structures like arrays, linked lists, trees, stacks, queues,
and graphs are essential tools, as are algorithms for sorting, searching, dynamic programming,
and greedy methods. Knowing each structure and algorithm’s strengths and weaknesses helps
coders make strategic choices when solving problems. Platforms like LeetCode, HackerRank,
and CodeSignal provide beginner-friendly environments to build and strengthen these skills.
Consistent practice is one of the most effective ways to improve. Coding platforms such as
CodeChef, AtCoder, and CodeForces offer coding contests that replicate real-time problem-
solving scenarios and teach time management under pressure. By tackling one or two
problems daily and reviewing their solutions, especially those that present challenges, coders
reinforce their learning and develop resilience. This habit of revisiting and analyzing solutions
strengthens problem-solving skills, turning mistakes into valuable learning experiences over
time.
Developing an understanding of problem-solving techniques like Divide and conquer, two-
pointer, backtracking, and Dynamic programming is another key aspect of competitive coding.
Knowing how and when to apply these strategies allows coders to approach complex
problems with more confidence. Many coders start with brute-force solutions and then
optimize them, which not only improves efficiency but also sharpens logical thinking.
Efficiency is particularly important in competitive coding, as solutions often face time and
memory constraints.
Many coders have successfully followed this structured approach to coding, starting with little
experience and dedicating time each day to platforms like LeetCode. Gradually progressing
from basic to more advanced problems, they build a strong foundation in DSA concepts. By
following a consistent practice schedule and participating in coding contests, they learn to
handle challenges, analyze mistakes, and refine their approach. As they improve their skills
and gain higher rankings, they often attract the attention of recruiters from top tech firms.
Today, many of these coders work as software engineers, attributing their success to
disciplined learning, continuous practice, and support from online coding communities.
Engaging with online communities is another essential element for competitive coders.
Platforms such as Stack Overflow, Codeforces, and Redditakmag offer valuable insights,
support, and guidance from experienced programmers. These communities provide a space
where beginners can learn from others, ask questions, and gain motivation. Watching tutorials
or reading articles from expert programmers introduces new perspectives and problem-
solving methods. This sense of community fosters a supportive environment that encourages
growth and improvement.
Ultimately, persistence and patience are critical for success in competitive coding. Progress
requires consistent effort, a strong grasp of foundational knowledge, and a willingness to learn
from each problem. Competitive coding is not only about solving problems but also about
developing a disciplined, analytical approach that applies beyond contests and benefits all
areas of programming. By mastering fundamentals, practicing consistently, optimizing
solutions, and leveraging community resources, competitive coders can build skills that open
doors to exciting career opportunities.
P Harsha Vardhan
16075A0509
ASSOC Software Engineer
JP Morgan Chase
Importance of Certification Courses
Certification courses are increasingly valuable in today’s professional landscape, offering a
structured approach to learning specialized skills that are essential for personal and career
growth. These courses are often created by industry experts and focus on practical, hands-on
training tailored to real-world applications. Fields like data science, cloud computing, project
management, and digital marketing require specific technical skills that are frequently
updated due to the fast pace of technological advancements. Certification courses allow
individuals to acquire these up-to-date skills and become job-ready in a relatively short time
frame, providing them with a competitive edge in the job market.
A key benefit of certifications is the credibility they offer. Certifications from well-recognized
organizations, such as Microsoft, Google, AWS, or PMI (Project Management Institute), carry
significant weight in the job market. For employers, certifications provide an assurance that
candidates have met specific standards of knowledge and competence in their respective
fields. For recent graduates, certifications bridge the gap between academic knowledge and
industry requirements, making them more appealing to recruiters. They are also beneficial for
professionals looking to change fields or advance in their careers, as certifications
demonstrate commitment and expertise in new areas, strengthening their profiles and
increasing their employability.
Certifications also impact career growth and salary prospects. Many certifications, such as the
PMP (Project Management Professional), AWS Certified Solutions Architect, or CompTIA
certifications, are associated with significant salary increases and are often prerequisites for
higher-level positions. These certifications validate expertise, often making certified
professionals eligible for advanced roles that might not be accessible otherwise. By investing
in certifications, individuals position themselves for more rapid career advancement and open
up new opportunities for growth, making certifications a valuable tool for long-term success.
Another crucial benefit of certifications is their role in helping professionals stay relevant.
Industries such as technology, finance, and healthcare are rapidly evolving, with new tools,
techniques, and best practices emerging frequently. Certifications in areas like data science,
artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, and cloud computing are designed to keep professionals
updated on the latest advancements. This ongoing learning process helps individuals remain
competitive and adaptable in their fields, a vital asset in sectors where innovation is constant.
Certifications enable professionals to stay current, setting them apart from peers who may
rely solely on academic qualifications or outdated knowledge.
In summary, certifications provide structured, focused training that equips individuals with
practical skills relevant to today’s workforce. They build credibility, enhance employability,
and often lead to career growth and salary advancements, especially in highly specialized
fields. Certifications also support continuous learning, helping professionals keep pace with
industry changes and maintain relevance. For anyone seeking to strengthen their skill set,
achieve career progression, or make a smooth transition into a new field, certifications are a
strategic investment that provides a competitive advantage in a constantly evolving job
market.
Tiruveedula Geethika
17071A05B4
MBA-General Management
at IIM Mumbai
Best Projects for the Academic Year 2023-2024 Batch: 2020-2024
S.No. H.T. No. NAME OF STUDENT PROJECT TITLE GUIDE NAME
1 20071A0505 Anuraag Chilakamarri AUTOMATIC RUNNING NOTES Mrs. A Madhavi
20071A0527 Jupudi Chaithra GENERATION FROM AUDIO
20071A0538 Madanaboina Srinidhi LECTURE USING NLP FOR
20071A0553 Suraj Sriram COMPREHENSIVE LEARNING
2 20071A0564 B. Neeha AUTOMATION AND Dr. V. Baby
20071A05A0 P Sai Bharadwaj ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN
20071A05A2 P. Vivek BLOOD DONATION
21075A0512 K. Vikas MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
3 20071A0576 Sharanya Emmadisetty FLARE ALERT: WILDFIRE Dr. R. Vijaya Saraswathi
20071A0585 M Sree Pranav Reddy AND URBAN FIRE DETECTION
20071A05A4 Chandana Sankarapuram AND MITIGATION
20071A05B1 Soumika Mallidi
20071A05B2 Sreya Tirumalaraju
4 20071A05C9 B.Srivalli VISUAL FALL DETECTION Dr. C. KiranMai
20071A05D1 CH.Komali ANALYSIS THROUGH
20071A05E2 G.Apurva COMPUTER VISION AND
20071A05G2 B.Sneha DEEP LEARNING
5 20071A05C6 B Likhita ADVANCED PULMONARY Mrs. L. Indira
20071A05D6 D Monika EMPHYSEMA DIAGNOSIS
20071A05G6 P Sai Preeti USING DEEP LEARNING
20071A05H3 K Srilasya
6 20071A05J7 Ch.Bhanu Teja 3D OBJECT CLASSIFICATION Dr. G. Ramesh Chandra
20071A05K1 Chindam Poojitha ON POINT CLOUD DATA
20071A05M6 Katakam Ashritha
20071A05P9 Shaik Jnaved
7 20071A3215 Hruthik Lokesh AR LEARN QUEST - P. Radhika
20071A3226 P Roshini Kondisetty GAMIFICATION OF LEARNING
20071A3241 Rushika Aravapalli USING AUGMENTED REALITY
20071A3223 K Pallavi APPLICATION
8 20071A3251 Rishi Kumar S KNOWLEDGE BASED K. Akhil
20071A3253 Sarath T COGNITIVE PROTOTYPE:
20071A3254 Reshmitha U VIDEO GAME FOR CHILDREN
20071A3255 Tanmayi Ch WITH ABSENCE EPILEPSY
AND TO ENHANCE THEIR
ATTENTION
AUTOMATIC RUNNING NOTES GENERATION FROM AUDIO LECTURE USING NLP FOR
COMPREHENSIVE LEARNING
Anuraag Chilakamarri Jupudi Chaithra Madanaboina Srinidhi Suraj Sriram
(20071A0505) (20071A0527) (20071A0538) (20071A0553)
Under the guidance of Mrs. A Madhavi, Assistant Professor
INTRODUCTION: In today's fast-paced world, digital educational resources like audio lectures
offer convenient learning options. However, taking notes while listening is challenging and often
leads to missed information. The project "Automatic Running Notes Generation from Audio
Lecture" addresses this by using advanced technology to automatically generate detailed notes
from audio recordings, streamlining the note-taking process and improving information
retention.
PROBLEM DEFINITION: The project "Automatic Running Notes Generation from Audio Lecture"
aims to address the challenge of capturing and retaining information from audio lectures.
Manual note-taking is time-consuming and often incomplete. The project uses advanced
technology to convert audio to text, summarize content, and offer translations, streamlining the
process and enhancing learning efficiency.
CONCLUSION: The project developed a system to automatically generate and categorize notes
from audio recordings using advanced NLP techniques. It enhances learning with detailed
explanations, supports content translation, and ensures high accuracy. This significantly
advances educational technology, promoting a more accessible and inclusive learning
environment.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT: It gives us immense pleasure to express our gratitude to VNR Vignana
Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology for providing us the opportunity to work on this
project. We are very much thankful to our Principal, Dr. Challa Dhanunjaya Naidu andour Head
of Department, Dr. S. Nagini, forextending their cooperation in doing this project in stipulated
time. We extend our heartfelt thanks to our guide, Mrs. A. Madhavi, Assistant Professor at
department of CSE for her invaluable guidance and supportthroughout our work. We feel
fortunate to have receivedher friendly and insightful advice during our project. We extend our
heartfelt thanks to the project coordinators Dr. B. V. Kiranmayee and Dr. D. N. Vasundhara, for
their enthusiastic guidance throughout the course of our project.
AUTOMATION AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN BLOOD DONATION MANAGEMENT
SYSTEM
B. Neeha P Sai Bharadwaj P. Vivek K. Vikas
(20071A0564) (20071A05A0) (20071A05A2) (21075A0512)
Under the Guidance of Dr. V. Baby, Associate Professor
INTRODUCTION: ConnectLife is a visionary initiative designed to revolutionize the blood
donation process by addressing the existing challenges prevalent in conventional systems. At its
core, ConnectLife seeks to create an integrated platform that connects donors, recipients,
National Service Scheme (NSS) organizations, volunteers, and blood banks, thereby streamlining
the entire donation process. The project recognizes the importance of efficient coordination,
heightened awareness, and improved communication in ensuring a steady and accessible supply
of blood for those in need.
PROBLEM DEFINITION: The current blood donation system is plagued by coordination gaps,
communication inefficiencies, and limited awareness, resulting in challenges in matching blood
supply with demand and addressing emergencies effectively. With disjointed processes and
fragmented communication channels, the system struggles to engage donors and volunteers,
leading to missed opportunities for increasing blood donation rates and community
involvement. Moreover, there is a pervasive lack of awareness about blood donation procedures
and eligibility criteria among the general population, further limiting donor participation and
exacerbating the strain on blood banks.
CONCLUSION: The ability to understand the knowledge organization and its representation
became simpler after the literature survey. The demonstration of how different brain regions
work together to generate a potential answer was discussed which identified how language,
language comprehension, problem solving skills and creativity contribute to decision making
and help solve problems.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT: We are grateful to our Associate Professor and HOD, Dr. S. Nagini, for
providing us with necessary resources whenever required and for having faith in our abilities,
allowing us to successfully conduct the survey.
We would like to express our indebtedness to our guide, Dr. V. Baby, Associate Professor at the
CSE Department, for providing us with vital assistance and guidance, helping us stay focused and
providing us with a clear direction.
FLARE ALERT: WILDFIRE AND URBAN FIRE DETECTION AND MITIGATION
Sharanya M Sree Pranav Chandana Soumika Sreya
Emmadisetty Reddy Sankarapuram Mallidi Tirumalaraju
(20071A0576) (20071A0585) (20071A05A4) (20071A05B1) (20071A05B2)
Under the Guidance of Dr. R. Vijaya Saraswathi, Assistant Professor
INTRODUCTION:
In the face of escalating challenges posed by wildfires and urban fires, the imperative to develop
robust detection and mitigation strategies has become increasingly evident. The frequency and
intensity of these incidents, worsened by climate change and urbanization, demand innovative
solutions that span across rural and urban landscapes. The disastrous effects of wildfires, usually
referred to as forest fires or bushfires, on ecosystems, communities, and economies have made
them a major global issue.
PROBLEM DEFINITION: This project delves into the realm of wildfire and urban fire detection
and mitigation, aiming to address the complexities associated with these crises. As wildfires
ravage natural landscapes and urban fires threaten densely populated areas, the need for a
comprehensive approach to early detection and mitigation has never been more pressing. It is
within this context that this proposed work aims to contribute to the development of an
integrated system that combines technological advancements, community engagement, and
adaptive strategies.
CONCLUSION: The objective is to design a system that provides real time detection of fire
incidents in both wildfire and urban fire. The model after training achieved an accuracy of 92.4%
for satellite detection and reduced the loss percentage in CCTV. In terms of execution, the time
taken to detect fire in both satellite and CCTV is in the proportion of milliseconds. The present
work detects fire and produces audio alerts, pop-up messages on the administrator side and
further triggers a mail and voice call to the users notifying them about the fire detection in their
Locality.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT: We would like to extend our sincere gratitude to the administration of
the VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology, especially Dr. R. Vijaya
Saraswathi, Assistant Professor in the CSE department, for all of her help and assistance during
this project. We also thank Dr. S. Nagini, our Professor and Head of Department, for believing in
our skills and for always giving us the resources we needed to complete the survey. We would
like to sincerely thank our mentors, Dr. V. Baby, an Associate professor in the CSE Department
and Dr. Anjusha Pimpalshende, Sr. Assistant professor in the CSE Department for their
invaluable support and direction, which helped us remain focused and give us a clear path.
VISUAL FALL DETECTION ANALYSIS THROUGH COMPUTER VISION AND DEEP LEARNING
B.Srivalli CH.Komali G.Apurva B.Sneha
(20071A05C9) (20071A05D1) (20071A05E2) (20071A05G2)
Under the Guidance of Dr. C.Kiran Mai, Professor
INTRODUCTION: Falls among the elderly and individuals with limited mobility, is a growing
public health concern, given the increasing aging population and the desire for seniors to live
independently in their own homes. In this project we came up with a technology ,using security
cameras to record videos and create a video-based fall detection system. The system uses
computer vision and deep learning algorithms to accurately recognize fall-related movements
and distinguish them from regular activities.
PROBLEM DEFINITION: It might be uncomfortable for users to wear specific devices such as
wrist bands and it is possible that elderly people might forgot to wear the devices as their
memory factor is usually weak So, the main intention of this project is to develop an innovative
and reliable fall detection system utilizing advanced computer vision algorithms. The primary
motto of the project is to deliver a fall detection system that ensures immediate action can be
taken upon detecting a fall, thereby minimizing the impact on the individual. By sending an alert
and facilitating rapid response, the system aims to mitigate the potential consequences of falls,
preserving the well-being and health of the person involved.
CONCLUSION: This project is is very useful for people who stay alone mainly elders to take
immediate action upon falling which minimizes the impact. Through its integration of multiple-
direction and multi-person tracking, the system enhances accuracy and provides valuable
insights into the severity of fall incidents.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT: It gives us immense pleasure in expressing our gratitude to the college
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology , for providing us an opportunity to
work for our college .The college has been very co-operative and has been a platform for honing
our technical skills which were essential for successful completion of the project.
We convey our sincere gratitude to our project Guide, Dr. C. Kiran Mai ,VNRVJIET for all the
support, guidance and cooperation provided, which contributed to the accomplishment of
the project. We consider our self-fortunate for being guided by her. She has been very
supportive, enthusiastic and extremely co-operative throughout the project.
ADVANCED PULMONARY EMPHYSEMA DIAGNOSIS USING DEEPLEARNING
B Likhita D Monika P Sai Preeti K Srilasya
(20071A05C6) (20071A05D6) (20071A05G6) (20071A05H3)
Under the Guidance of Mrs. L. Indira, Assistant Professor
INTRODUCTION: Pulmonary emphysema, a hallmark of COPD, affects millions globally,
demanding early detection and intervention. Automated Pulmonary Emphysema Identification
(APED) utilizes advanced imaging like CT scans to segment affected lung regions, enabling
precise diagnosis and tailored treatment plans, pivotal in managing breathlessness and disability
associated with the condition.
PROBLEM DEFINITION: The aim of the web interface for automated pulmonaryemphysema
identification (APED) is to provide a user-friendly platform for healthcare professionals to
upload medical imaging data, such as CT scans, and receive automatedsegmentation and
analysisof emphysematous lung regions. This interface facilitates quick and efficient evaluation,
aiding in prompt diagnosis and personalized treatmentplanning for patientswith COPD-related
emphysema.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, the web interfacefor automated pulmonaryemphysema
identification (APED) serves as a vital tool in improving the diagnosis and management of COPD-
related emphysema. With an accuracy rate of 87.5%, it offers healthcare professionals a
convenient platform to upload and analyze medical imaging data, facilitating streamlined
diagnostics and personalized treatment planning. Additionally, the feature allowing users to
search for the nearest doctors further enhances accessibility to care.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT: We convey our sincere gratitude to our respectable HOD, Dr S Nagini,
VNRVJIET for all the support, guidance and cooperation provided ,which contributed to the
accomplishment of the project.
We extend our heartfelt thanks to our project guide, Mrs. L. Indira, our honorable Assistant
Professor, CSE Department, VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology, for her
excellent supervision and guidance, for the time she gave us and her constant encouragement
towards the successful completion of our project.
3D OBJECT CLASSIFICATION ON POINT CLOUD DATA
Ch.Bhanu Teja Chindam Poojitha Katakam Ashritha Shaik Jnaved
(20071A05J7) (20071A05K1) (20071A05M6) (20071A05P9)
Under the Guidance of Dr. G. Ramesh Chandra, Professor
INTRODUCTION: The conventional reliance on image-based approaches for object classification
encounters limitations in accurately identifying objects in complex environments due to the
constraints of 2D imagery. Leveraging 3D point clouds from LIDAR technology offers a promising
solution by providing detailed spatial representations of objects in three-dimensional space.
However, challenges persist in effectively extracting meaningful features from such data and
developing efficient classification models, especially with the integration of cutting-edge
technologies like deep learning.
PROBLEM DEFINITION: The conventional methods for object classification primarily rely on
image-based approaches, which often encounter significant challenges in accurately identifying
objects in complex and dynamic environments. These limitations stem from the inherent
constraints of 2D imagery in capturing the intricate spatial characteristics and relationships of
objects. As such, there arises a critical need to develop a more robust and reliable object
detection system that transcends the shortcomings of traditional image-based methods.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, the project on 3D point cloud object classification represents a
significant advancement in the field of computer vision and autonomous systems. By leveraging
cutting-edge techniques in 3D data processing, machine learning, and deep learning, we have
developed a robust system capable of accurately detecting and classifying objects within point
clouds. Through meticulous preprocessing, feature extraction, and utilization of deep learning
architectures, we have achieved remarkable results in object detection and classification, even in
complex and dynamic environments.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT: We would like to express our profound gratitude to the management of
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology for providing us with a remarkable
platform to acquire advanced technical skills in the field of Computer Science, thus enabling us to
achieve our most cherished goal.
Our special thanks to Dr. G. Ramesh Chandra, Professor at department of CSE for his invaluable
guidance and support throughout our work. We feel fortunate to have received his friendly and
insightful advice during our project.
AR LEARN QUEST - GAMIFICATION OF LEARNING USING AUGMENTED REALITY
APPLICATION
Hruthik Lokesh P Pallavi K Roshini K Rushika A
(20071A3215) (20071A3223) (20071A3227) (20071A3241)
Under the Guidance of Mrs. P Radhika, Assistant Professor
INTRODUCTION: This proposal outlines a groundbreaking three-phase augmented reality (AR)
learning experience designed to revolutionize education by seamlessly integrating immersive
technology with engaging teaching methods, thorough research, and effective assessment
strategies.
PROBLEM DEFINITION: The aim of the project is to revolutionize education through seamless
integration of augmented reality (AR) technology, enhancing learning experiences, improving
interaction and communication skills, implementing gamified assessment, providing
comprehensive analysis, and ultimately revolutionizing traditional teaching methods.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, this project aims to transform education through augmented
reality (AR) technology, revolutionizing teaching methods and enhancing student engagement.
With interactive instruction, immersive experiences, gamified assessment, and comprehensive
analysis, it promises to create a dynamic educational environment for the digital age.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT: It gives us immense pleasure in expressing our gratitude to the college
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology, for providing us an opportunity to
work for our college. The college has been cooperative and has been a platform to showcase our
technical skills which were essential for the successful completion of the project.
We convey our sincere gratitude to our respectable HOD, Dr. S. Nagini, VNRVJIET for all the
support, guidance and cooperation provided, which contributed to the accomplishment of the
project.
We extend our heartfelt thanks to our project guide, Mrs. P Radhika, our honorable Assistant
Professor, CSE Department, VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology, for her
excellent supervision and guidance, for the time she gave us and her constant encouragement
towards the successful completion of our project.
KNOWLEDGE BASED COGNITIVE PROTOTYPE: VIDEO GAME FOR CHILDREN WITH
ABSENCE EPILEPSY AND TO ENHANCE THEIR ATTENTION
Srikoti Rishi Kumar Tenneti Sai Sarath Uppala Reshmitha T Tanmayi Challa
(20071A3251) (20071A3253) (20071A3254) (20071A3255)
Under the guidance of Mr.Karnam Akhil, Assistant Professor
INTRODUCTION: In recent times, children are increasingly experiencing anxiety and depression,
nervousness, emotional distress, and a susceptibility to conditions such as Absence Epilepsy,
Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy (JME), and Migraine. Absence Epilepsy is one of the major
challenging issues of current neurological research. Absence Epilepsy is a common form of
childhood epilepsy that can have significant impact on child leading problems to memory loss,
lack of cognitive ability, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
PROBLEM DEFINITION: The rising prevalence of anxiety, depression, and neurological
disorders among children, including Absence Epilepsy, poses significant challenges to pediatric
healthcare. Current research indicates a potential link between these conditions and suggests
that certain video games could positively impact cognitive and motor functions in affected
children
CONCLUSION: . Our proposed research introduces a unique approach: designing a video game
specifically for children with Absence Epilepsy to help improve their cognitive attention,
memory, and overall wellbeing. We’ve implemented exploratory data analysis and association
rule mining to uncover hidden relationships from the survey data collected. Additionally, the
game prototype was built after consulting experts and neurospecialist doctors to ensure it meets
the needs of its target audience
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT: We convey our sincere gratitude to our respectable HOD, Dr. S. Nagini,
VNRVJIET for all the support, guidance and cooperation provided, which contributed to the
accomplishment of the project.
We extend our heartfelt thanks to our project guide, Mr K Akhil , our honorable Assistant
Professor, CSE Department, VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology, for her
excellent supervision and guidance, for the time she gave us and her constant encouragement
towards the successful completion of our project.
MANAGING COMMITTEE
P.SAI SAKETH ABHINAV SUDHANV NEHA KAKARLA RESHMITHA UPPALA
CHAIRPERSON GENERAL SECRETARY TREASURER PRESIDENT
VISHNUKANTH VARMA E.VINAY VARDHAN ROHAN KURELLA NEEHA BATHULA
DIRECTOR DESIGNING HEAD DESIGNING HEAD DESIGNING HEAD
GUNNALLE APURVA BASUTHKAR LIKITHA MOOLA SAI SUDHA
TECHNICAL HEAD TECHNICAL HEAD TECHNICAL HEAD
A.RUTVIK REDDY SANDEEP KORANI SHAIK AFREEN SREEJA SRIRANGAM
NON-TECHNICAL HEAD NON-TECHNICAL HEAD NON-TECHNICAL HEAD CREATIVE HEAD
S.PRAVALIKA REDDY SHAIK SABEEHA KOUSER MADDULA KEERTHI MONIKA DESIREDDY
CREATIVE HEAD CREATIVE HEAD EVENT ORGANIZER EVENT ORGANIZER
PALLAVI NARRA RUSHIKA ARVAPALLI PALLA NAVYA SREE ADDANKI JYOTHIRMAI
EVENT COVERAGE PUBLIC RELATIONS PUBLIC RELATIONS PUBLIC RELATIONS
CO-ORDINATOR CO-ORDINATOR CO-ORDINATOR CO-ORDINATOR
ACTION COMMITTEE
KOLLERU GUNA RATHNA D. SAI ROHITH DEEPTHI VUNNAM SAI RAKSHITA NARSINGH
VICE CHAIRPERSON JOINT SECRETARY JOINT TREASURER VICE PRESIDENT
I N S KARTHIK A. V. KARTHIKEYA N.HIMA SAMEERA INDHUSREE RACHURI
DEPUTY DIRECTOR DESIGNING HEAD DESIGNING HEAD DESIGNING HEAD
CHINTALA VARUN TEJA N. KAVYA REDDY MOHAMMED FOUZIYA CHANDRA SHEKAR GOLLA
DESIGNING HEAD DESIGNING HEAD DOCUMENTATION HEAD DOCUMENTATION HEAD
OMKAARINI SAVARAPU JONNALAGADDA HARIPRIYA SWAPNIL PODISHETTI Y. V. BHARGAV
DOCUMENTATION HEAD TECHNICAL HEAD TECHNICAL HEAD TECHNICAL HEAD
SRINITHYA VALLEPALLI MANAS KUMAR. P DHEERAJ YERRAMASU HARSHITHA TEMBERVENI
NON-TECHNICAL HEAD NON-TECHNICAL HEAD NON-TECHNICAL HEAD CREATIVE HEAD
T. KRISHNA SOUMYA DIDDI SHRAVYA SATHWIK TAMMISHETTI K.PAVAN PRANEETHA
CREATIVE HEAD CREATIVE HEAD EVENT ORGANIZER EVENT ORGANIZER
CHAITANYA TARIGOPULA NEHA GURRAM G. JYOTHI SWAROOP
EVENT COVERAGE PUBLIC RELATIONS PUBLIC RELATIONS
CO-ORDINATOR CO-ORDINATOR CO-ORDINATOR
