SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/cseDS-CYS/Data-Science-Digest-News-Letter-Volume-2.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous, ISO 9001:2015 & QS I-Gauge Diamond Rated Institute, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A++’ Grade
NBA Accreditation for B.Tech. CE,EEE,ME,ECE,CSE,EIE,IT,AME, M.Tech. STRE, PE, AMS, SWE Programmes
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi, Affiliated to JNTUH, NIRF (2023) Rank band:101-150 in Engineering Category
College with Potential for Excellence by UGC,JNTUH-Recognized Research Centres:CE,EEE,ME,ECE,CSE Vignana
Jyothi Nagar, Pragathi Nagar, Nizampet (S.O.), Hyderabad – 500 090, TS, India.
Telephone No: 040-2304 2758/59/60, Fax: 040-23042761
E-mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
DATA SCIENCE DIGEST
November 2023 - December 2024 Newsletter
“ DIFFERENTIATED BY INPUTS - INTREGRATED BY OUTPUTS “
WEBSITE LINK :
DDAATTAA SSCCIIEENNCCEE DDOOMMAAIINN
VVoolluummee 22
IIssssuuee 11
CONTENTS
CONTENTS
MESSAGE
INTRODUCTION 1-5
6
FROM HOD
7-10
FACULTY
SPOTLIGHT
STUDENT
11-20
SPOTLIGHT
CLUBS
21-35
EVENTS &
ARTICLES
INTERNSHIPS &
PLACEMENTS 36-38
VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous, ISO 9001:2015 & QS I-Gauge Diamond Rated Institute, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A++’ Grade
NBA Accreditation for B.Tech. CE,EEE,ME,ECE,CSE,EIE,IT,AME, M.Tech. STRE, PE, AMS, SWE Programmes
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi, Affiliated to JNTUH, NIRF (2023) Rank band:101-150 in Engineering Category
College with Potential for Excellence by UGC,JNTUH-Recognized Research Centres:CE,EEE,ME,ECE,CSE Vignana Jyothi
Nagar, Pragathi Nagar, Nizampet (S.O.), Hyderabad – 500 090, TS, India.
Telephone No: 040-2304 2758/59/60, Fax: 040-23042761
E-mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
NNEEWWSSLLEETTTTEERR
FROM THE DOMAIN OF DATA SCIENCE
Issue 2
Welcome to
the Domain of
CSE-DS.
We are thrilled to introduce you to the 2nd edition
of the Data Science domain’s Newsletter. As we
This domain is established in 2020
embark on this exciting journey, our aim is to
under the department of CSE - DS
provide a platform that not only informs but also
and CyS managing a B.Tech.
inspires, connects, and celebrates the world of
program with the intake of 100+ data science here at VNRVJIET.
and 100+ respectively . This In today's rapidly evolving world, data is the new
department is dedicated to explore currency, and the ability to extract insights from it
the fascinating fields of Data is paramount. The Data Science Domain stands at
Science, equipping the students the forefront.
with the knowledge and skills to
excel in this rapidly evolving Our department is a dynamic hub where curiosity
domain. indeed meets computation, statistics fuse with
storytelling, and technology converges with real-
world impact. In these pages, you'll find a wealth of
information, from faculty spotlights and student
achievements .
Stay curious,
But this newsletter is not just about us; it's about
stay you, our vibrant community. We encourage you to
actively participate, contribute your insights, share
data-driven!
your experiences, and also collaborate .
Dr. T.SUNIL KUMAR
HEAD OF DEPARTMENT,
Dept. of CSE - (CyS, DS) and AI&DS
Dr. N. SUNANDA
EDITORIAL MEMBER,
Dept. of CSE - (CyS, DS) and
AI&DS
Mr. P. VEERANJANEYULU
EDITORIAL MEMBER,
Dept. of CSE - (CyS, DS) and
AI&DS
EDITORS
CHIEF
EDITORial
KEERTHI KOLLA
21071A67A1
SENIOR EDITORialS
K. HITESH VARMA M. GANESH BHANU SATISH
22071A6785 22071A6798 22071A6749
junior EDITORialS
R. SHAKRUTHI C. SHIVANI M. PRANAVI T. PRANAV BABU
23071A6755 23071A6712 23071A6739 23071A67K1
VISION
To produce engineers with in-depth technical
knowledge and ethical values.
To incorporate ingeniousness and self- driven
capabilities to the students in the fields of
mezzanine technologies.
To nurture the ecosystem of Innovation, Research
and Development through an integrated teaching-
learning environment for faculty and students.
MISSION
Offers diverse curriculum in line with industry,
professional and research bodies.
Provide project-based learning environment for
developing diverse practical capabilities.
Offer advanced trainings to enable process skills
and competencies.
About the
Department
Our Department is established in 2020 with the DS and
CyS B.Tech. program with the intake of 60 and 60
respectively and in the year 2021 started with the AI & DS
B.Tech. program with an intake of 60 and Data Science
Intake increased to 120. This Department is dedicated to
explore the fascinating fields of Data Science, AI, and
Cyber Security issues equipping the students with the
knowledge and skills to excel in these rapidly evolving
domains. Now currently accommodating 180 seats in
Data Science.
The Department is involved in pioneering research and
supports research activities both for teachers and
students. We promote a culture of innovation,
encouraging students and faculty members to explore
new ideas, conduct research projects, and publish their
findings in reputed journals and conferences and explore
themselves in cutting-edge technologies like Image
Processing, Augmented Reality, Data Analytics, Cyber
Forensic, Malware analysis etc. All the activities are
conducted in association with different clubs like
VJ DATA QUESTERS, VJ GARUDA VIGILENCE, VJ ARC
clubs.
MESSAGE FROM
HEAD OF DEPARTMENT
It is an exciting time for our Department as we
witness tremendous growth in Data Science, Cyber security &
AI-DS. Our students have excelled in various competitions, and
our partnerships with industry leaders have paved the way for
innovative projects and research.
We are committed to providing a cutting-edge curriculum,
preparing our students to thrive in these dynamic fields. I thank
our dedicated faculty and congratulate our students on their
achievements , Let's continue striving
for excellence.
“Be good! Do Good!! Be Unite..!”
Dr. T. Sunil Kumar
HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
FACULTY SPOTLIGHT
The Faculty Spotlight provides a vital opportunity to
recognize the exceptional contributions of our educators.
By showcasing their professional journeys, we highlight
their dedication to excellence and passion for knowledge.
This celebration honors their commitment and underscores
the significant impact they have on our academic
community, fostering a culture of appreciation and
inspiring future generations of learners.
ACHIEVEMENTS
FACULTY
01
Dr.M.Raja Sekar , Dr.T.Sunil Kumar & Dr.P.Subhash has being selected
as a Research supervisor under JNTUH.
02
Dr.T. Sunil Kumar, Dr. P. Subhash and Dr. N . Sunanda are
recognised as research supervisors under Vishveshwarayya
Technological University, Bangalore.
Dr.N.Sunanda and Mrs.Rasmita Kumari Mohanty has 03
received Research Incentives for their research work
in the department.
Dr. Talluri Sunil Kumar, Professor & Mr. Manmathnath 04
Das Published Text books on "Artificial intelligence in
the Age of Big Data “ by Leilani Katie publications and
Press, Hyderabad.
Dr. T. Sunil Kumar and Dr. Y. Sucharitha has organised 05
one week Professional Development Program on “ Data
Visualization” from 29th Jan 2024 to 3rd February 2024
06
Mr. A. Pramod Kumar and team has organised one week Professional
Development Program on “ Data Science Mastery” from 5th February
2024 to 10th February 2024.
YTLUCAF
STNEMEVEIHCA
07
Dr. T. Sunil Kumar and Dr. Sagar Yeruva published a Textbook on “Machine
Learning Mastery” by “SK group of research Mastery”.
Dr. T. Sunil Kumar published a book on “ Advanced Data Science techniques
with python” published by “ SK Research group of companies”
08 Mrs. G. Ashalatha has published aText book on “ Deep learning
for Computer Vision” published by “ Leilani Katie publications
and Press”.Mrs. E. Lalitha has published a text book on “Machine
Learning in IoT” by “Leilani Katie publications and Press”.
09
Dr.T.Sunil Kumar, Dr.Y.Bhanu Sree, Dr.N.sunanda, Dr.G.Spoorthy and
Mr.Manmath Nath Das has successfully completed Short term Course
on "Data Analysis in Criminal Justice" Held During 3rd Spetember
2024 to 10th November 2024 Organized by Center for Criminal Justice
Research IIT Kanpur.
10 The Department of CSE-(CyS,DS) and AI&DS in
collaboration with Humanities and Science organised an
International Conference on “ Applied Mathematics and
Advanced Data Analyutics for Industry 5.0 (ICAMADA-24)”
11 Under the guidance of Dr. T. Sunil Kumar, HOD and professor of the
Dept. of CSE--(CyS,DS) & AI-DS conducted an outreach activity at Peda
Chimtakunta, supporting education and welfare. This initiative
showcased the faculty’s dedication to social impact.
12
Dr. P. Subhash and Mrs. D. Sreevidya has Written NPTEL Certification
Exam and scored top 2% , in the field of Cyber security.
OOUUTT--RREEAACCHH PPRROOGGRRAAMMMMEE
The Department of Computer Science and
Engineering (Data Science, Cybersecurity) &
AI-Data Science, through VJ Data Questers,
organized an outreach program at Peda
Chimtakuru and Narsapur Old Age Home,
focused on supporting education, health,
and well-being. We distributed educational
books, hygiene kits, and essential
groceries, aiming to meet the needs of both
children and the elderly.
Along with these contributions, we engaged
the children in interactive learning sessions
and brought joy to the elderly with activities
that encouraged connection and storytelling.
This initiative reflected our commitment to
social responsibility, fostering a sense of
community, spreading knowledge, and
bringing happiness to those who need it
most.
STUDENT SPOTLIGHT
In the world of education, the student is the radiant star in the spotlight.
Each student represents a unique blend of potential, curiosity, and
ambition, and their journey through the educational system is a
dynamic and transformative one. The spotlight on a student is not just
about academic achievements but also about their personal growth,
resilience, and creativity. It is a stage where they showcase their talents,
ideas, and dreams. Students absorb knowledge, challenge conventions,
and aspire to make a difference in the world. The spotlight on a student
is a reminder of the endless possibilities that await them, encouraging
them to shine brightly and contribute meaningfully to society.
STUDENT ACTIVITIES
DRAWINGS
Pranav Babu
Mudu Ganesh
23071A67K1 22071A6798
2ND YEAR ds-c 3rd YEAR ds-b
Bhanu Satish Tejaswi
22071A6749 22071A6759
3rd Year DS-A 3nd year ds-A
Shakruthi
23071A6755
2ND YEAR DS-A
DHANASREE Bindu Sree
22071A6770
23071A6752
3rd year DS-B
2nd year ds-a
Shivani
23071A6712
2nd year ds-a
L.B.SUHASH REDDY
23075A6705
3RD year ds-a
STUDENT ACHIEVEMENTS
A. Tanvish, bearing the roll number
23071A6202 from CSE - Cyber Security
has been awarded for getting the -
position in Basket ball tournament.
B. Satwika and K. Charana from DS-
B have been selected as interns for
Amazon as Software Developers,
with a monthly package of ₹40,000.
Congratulations to both on this
achievement!
The title of Most Influential Toastmaster of
the VNRVJIET Toastmasters Club has been
awarded to a 3rd-year student from DS-A.
Congratulations on this recognition!
A 2nd-year student from AI & DS has been
selected for the Google Summer of Code
(GSoC) 2024 program. Congratulations
on this remarkable achievement!
Yathin Kumar and Akash Vardhan secured
2nd place in the VNR-VJIET Convergence
Hackathon. Congratulations to both on
their success!
Congratulations to the NPTEL toppers
from the Department of CSE, including
students from Cyber Security (CyS), Data
Science (DS), and AI & DS. Your hard
work and dedication have truly paid off!
Ranvitha (22071A6741), Sanjana
(22071A6760), and Srilatha
(22071A6709), 2nd-year students from
DS-A, have secured internships at
Amazon with a stipend of ₹35,000 for
two months, from May 6, 2024, to June
28, 2024. Congratulations to them on
this fantastic opportunity!
We are happy to share that two of our students,
Parshi Praneesh (2nd Year, Data Science) and
Rudrabatla Vashishta (2nd Year, AI & DS), won
at the Code For Good Hackathon conducted by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. as part of the 2024
Software Engineer Program.
Our Data Science Department
students contributed a total of
450 kgs of rice for Wayanard
fund relief.
Sports ACHIEVEMENTS
Congratulations to VNR Throw ball
team on securing 3rd place in the
National throw ball championship.
Congratulations to Anshuk Akuri, a
third-year student in the AIDS
branch, for achieving the runner-up
(2nd) position while representing VNR
VJIET in the chess competition
organized by VJIM!
Congratulations to Tanvish from
the 1st year Cyber Security program
for winning the basketball
competition at CVR College of
Engineering!
Congratulations to the first-year
Sports Stars from the Departments of
CSE (Cybersecurity and Data Science)
and AI & Data Science!
Congratulations to P. Chaitanya
from the 3rd year Data Science-B
for being part of the winning team
in the cricket tournament at CVR
College!
Congratulations to the team for
winning 1st place in the GRIET
Women’s Basketball Tournament!
Congratulations to G. Anirudh
from the 1st year Data Science-B
for winning first place in the
football match at the VNR VJIET
Sports Fest!
It’s not the will to win that
matters—everyone has that. It’s
the will to prepare to win that
matters.
Paul “Bear” Bryant
21
CLUB
VJ DATA QUESTERS
VJ Data Questers, the official club of the domain Data Science at
VNR VJIET. Our mission is to foster a community of data
enthusiasts and empower them with the knowledge and skills
needed to navigate the dynamic landscape of data science.
WHO ARE WE ?
We are a vibrant group of students, professors, and data
aficionados who share a common passion for data. Our club
serves as a hub for all things data-related, where members can
engage in meaningful discussions, participate in hands-on
projects, and explore the limitless possibilities of data science.
WHAT WE DO?
Educational Workshops, Hackathons and Competitions, Guest
Lectures, Data-driven Projects and Community Building.
“ DIFFERENTIATED BY INPUTS-INTREGRATED
BY OUTPUTS “
For further details
Contact : +91 8498089180
Mail us : vjdataquesters@gmail.com
22
Follow us : @vjdataquesters.club
LOGO DESIGNING
COMPETITION
Logo designing competition held from
14th to 18th November 2022. An event
of designing logos related to data
science.
HIT -THE FIRST CHASE
On February 11, 2024 the event HIT-The Second Chase
was conducted, which aims to enhance problem-
solving, critical thinking, and technical knowledge
through puzzles, aptitude tests, and technical
questions.
23
GUEST LECTURE BY DATA
ENGINEER
A guest lecture by Samardh Moka who is a
data engineer and an alumni of VNRVJIET
working in ANZ BANKS,AUSTRALIA as a data
engineer who shared experience and
knowledge about data science on 8th Feb
2023.
GUEST LECTURE ON DATA
SCIENCE JOURNEY
This guest lecture on data science provided
attendees with new insights into the field and
its applications. This can help them deepen
their understanding of data science and gain a
better appreciation of its importance.
BLOG-A-THON
It attracted a significant number of participants,
showcasing the enthusiasm for technical writing
among the audience. Participants explored
various technical subjects and presented them in
unique and creative ways, enriching the overall
knowledge base.
24
DATA VISUALIZATION
USING TABLEAU
One day hands on workshop was conducted on the
topic "Data Visualization using TABLEAU" by Mr.
Gullapalli Sathar on 21st March 2024. During the
program, second-year students learned the
fundamental Tableau skills needed to create
powerful dashboards and data visualizations.
PROFOLIO
The goal is to promote creativity and innovation
within the field of web design by recognizing
and rewarding outstanding portfolio websites
that showcase exceptional talent and skill. By
fostering a collaborative and supportive
community among designers, we aim to
encourage
SIH 2024
The initiative seeks to promote creativity
and innovation in the field of web design
by recognizing and rewarding outstanding
portfolio websites that demonstrate
exceptional skill and originality. By
fostering a collaborative and supportive
community among designers,
25
DYNAMICS OF ALGO:
ABDUL BARI
A guest lecture by Mr.Abdul Bari on the topic
“Dynamics of Algorithms” was given on 11th
September 2024, which is conducted exclusively
for 3rd year students
GET SET PY
It is a Python Bootcamp with hands on workshop
for 2nd Year Students! The main motto of this
event is to give students a Idea on Python basics
with Practical projects done
26
TT VV
єє ¢¢ннηη ιιѕѕттαα
2k24
Techno Vista is a premier collaborative event organized by the Data
Science and Cyber Security Clubs, offering a diverse range of activities
including a coding contest, cyber hunt, red teaming exercise, case
study competition, hackathon, project expo, tech elocution, and guest
lectures. This event aims to foster innovation, enhance technical skills,
and provide networking opportunities for students, professionals, and
tech enthusiasts.
Participants had engaged in competitive and educational activities,
showcase their projects, and gain insights from industry experts,
making Techno Vista a unique platform for learning, growth, and
collaboration in the fields of data science and cybersecurity.
Which was Conducted on 10th, 11th, 12th of June 2024 at VNRVJIET
Events Conducted
Flashmob
We are thrilled to announce that
Technovista at VNRVJIET was a resounding
Guest Lecture
success! The event featured an
exhilarating flash mob that energized the
"VJDataQuesters at VNRVJIET proudly crowd and set a vibrant tone for the day.
presents a guest lecture on Data Insights,
With inspiring workshops, insightful talks,
offering a deep dive into the latest trends
and enthusiastic participation from
and tools in data analytics. This session
students and guests alike, we celebrated
will equip students with the knowledge
the spirit of innovation and technology.
and skills needed to navigate the evolving
world of data, unlocking new
opportunities for innovation and growth." 27
TECH ELOCUTION
24HR HACKATHON
It is a unique opportunity for
individuals passionate about
"Get ready to push the limits of
creativity and innovation in our 24-hour technology to demonstrate their
hackathon! It's a non-stop challenge ability to articulate and present
where teams will collaborate, code, and technical information effectively
compete to build groundbreaking in a creative way of their choice.
solutions in just one day. Whether
Participants will have the chance
you're a seasoned developer or a first-
to deliver speeches on a variety of
time hacker, this is your chance to test
tech-related topics, ranging from
your skills, learn new things, and make
artificial intelligence and machine
lasting connections.
learning to data science and cyber
security.
DQ CODE FEST PATENT
SUMMIT
The event consists of two rounds, with each
Calling all innovators, creators, and tech
team allowed a maximum of two members.
enthusiasts! Are you ready to showcase
Round 1, the coding prelims, will take place
your groundbreaking projects on the
online on May 30th, 2024, while Round 2 is latest tech trends like Data Science,
scheduled for June 6th, 2024, as an offline Cyber Security, Machine Learning, and
contest held at the college. Round 1 will be more whether it's software or
conducted on the HackerRank platform, hardware.
requiring teams to have a HackerRank
account. CASE STUDY
AND
PROJECT EXPO DATA VISUALIZATION
If this is what you want to do then say no
From the mesmerising world of Artificial
more and join our amazing event filled
Intelligence and Machine Learning to crucial
with exploration and research. Study
fields like Healthcare Analytics and
what's going on and infer what's needed,
Cybersecurity, our event brings you the
Visualise your inferences in the most
pinnacle of technology and creativity.
pleasing manner that can be understood
Explore a diverse array of projects from all
by anyone.
engineering domains,
28
ARTICLES
Article on Data Product:
Every business interaction generates data, but raw data alone is often scattered and difficult to utilize. A
data product is a tool that processes and organizes this data to deliver meaningful insights. These
products help businesses track trends, predict outcomes, and automate decisions, ultimately saving time
and driving growth. From recommendation engines to predictive analytics, data products come in
various forms, each designed to solve specific problems. Companies like Netflix, Google, and Spotify
have successfully leveraged data products to enhance user experiences and decision-making. As AI and
machine learning evolve, data products are becoming more intelligent and personalized. This article
explores the definition, types, components, and future of data products in the digital era.
Data products are built on robust data pipelines, ensuring that information flows seamlessly from
collection to analysis. They rely on scalable infrastructure, integrating diverse data sources for real-
time insights. Effective data products prioritize usability, making complex data accessible through
intuitive dashboards and APIs. As businesses become more data-driven, the role of data products in
shaping strategies and innovation continues to grow.
29
Article on Data Science Tools:
Dr. T Sunil Kumar
Professor & HoD, CSE- (CyS, DS) and AI &DS
1. Apache Spark
Apache Spark is an open-source data processing and analytics engine that can handle large amounts of data upward of
several petabytes, according to proponents. Spark's ability to rapidly process data has fuelled significant growth in the
use of the platform since it was created in 2009, making the Spark project one of the largest open source communities
among big data technologies.
2. Julia
Julia is an open source programming language used for numerical computing as well as machine learning and other
kinds of data science applications. In a 2012 blog post announcing Julia, its four creators said they set out to design
one language that addressed all their needs. A big goal was to avoid having to write programs in one language and
convert them to another for execution.
3. Jupyter Notebook/Jupyter Lab
An open source web application, Jupyter Notebook enables interactive collaboration among data scientists, data
engineers, mathematicians, researchers and other users. It's a computational notebook tool that can be used to create,
edit and share code as well as explanatory text, images and other information. For example, Jupyter users can add
software code, computations, comments, data visualizations and rich media representations of computation results to a
single document, known as a notebook, which can then be shared with and revised by colleagues.
4. Keras
Keras is a programming interface that enables data scientists to access and use machine learning platforms more
easily. It's an open source deep learning API and framework written in Python that runs on top of TensorFlow,
PyTorch and JAX. Keras initially supported multiple back ends but was tied exclusively to TensorFlow starting with
its 2.4.0 release in 2020. However, multiplatform support was restored in Keras 3.0, a full rewrite released in late
2023.
5. Matlab
Developed and sold by software vendor MathWorks since 1984, Matlab is a high-level programming language and
analytics environment for numerical computing, mathematical modeling and data visualization. It's primarily used by
conventional engineers and scientists to analyze data; design algorithms; and develop embedded systems for wireless
communications, industrial control, signal processing and other applications. This is often in concert with a
companion Simulink tool that offers model-based design and simulation capabilities.
6. Matplotlib
Matplotlib is an open source Python plotting library that's used to read, import and visualize data in analytics
applications. Data scientists and other users can create static, animated and interactive data visualizations with
Matplotlib, using it in Python scripts, the Python and IPython shells, Jupyter Notebook, JupyterLab, web
application servers, and various GUI toolkits.
30
7. NumPy
Short for Numerical Python, NumPy is an open source Python library that's used widely in scientific
computing, engineering, and data science and machine learning applications. The library consists of
multidimensional array objects and routines for processing those arrays to enable various mathematical and
logic functions. It also supports linear algebra, random number generation and other operations.
8. Pandas
Another popular open source Python library, pandas typically is used for data analysis and manipulation.
Built on top of NumPy, it features two primary data structures: the Series one-dimensional array and the
DataFrame, a two-dimensional structure for data manipulation with integrated indexing. Both can accept
data from NumPy ndarrays and other inputs. A DataFrame can also incorporate multiple Series objects.
9. PyTorch
An open source framework used to build and train deep learning models based on neural networks, PyTorch
is touted by its proponents for supporting fast and flexible experimentation as well as a seamless transition
to production deployment. The Python library was designed to be easier to use than Torch, a precursor
machine learning framework that's based on the Lua programming language. PyTorch also provides more
flexibility and speed than Torch, according to its creators.
10. Scikit-learn
Scikit-learn is an open source machine learning library for Python that's built on the SciPy and NumPy
scientific computing libraries as well as Matplotlib for plotting data. It supports both supervised and
unsupervised machine learning and includes numerous algorithms and models, called estimators in scikit-
learn parlance. Additionally, it provides functionality for model fitting, selection and evaluation and for
data preprocessing and transformation.
11. SciPy
SciPy is another open source Python library that supports scientific computing uses. Short for Scientific
Python, it features a set of mathematical algorithms and high-level commands and classes for data
manipulation and visualization. It includes more than a dozen subpackages that contain algorithms and
utilities for functions such as data optimization, integration and interpolation as well as algebraic
equations, differential equations, image processing and statistics.
12. TensorFlow
TensorFlow is an open source machine learning platform developed by Google that's particularly popular for
implementing deep learning neural networks. The platform takes inputs in the form of tensors that are akin
to NumPy multidimensional arrays and then uses a graph structure to flow the data through a list of
computational operations specified by developers. It also offers an eager execution programming
environment that runs operations individually without graphs, which provides more flexibility for research
and debugging machine learning models.
31
Article on Google’s Gemini for Data Science:
Google Gemini, powered by the PaLM 2 model, has enhanced reasoning, coding, and multilingual
capabilities, making it a powerful AI tool. Unlike ChatGPT, Gemini requires carefully structured
prompts for optimal results. This article explores how to utilize Gemini to develop an end-to-end Fake
News Detection project. From project planning to model deployment, we demonstrate step-by-step
implementation using Gemini-generated prompts and code. We also compare Gemini’s effectiveness in
data preprocessing, exploratory analysis, feature engineering, and model selection. Furthermore, we fine-
tune the model with hyperparameter optimization and deploy it as a Streamlit web app. By the end, you'll
have a clear roadmap for leveraging Gemini in data science workflows.
We evaluate Gemini’s ability to generate synthetic training data and enhance model robustness.
Additionally, we assess its strengths and limitations in handling complex linguistic patterns within fake
news detection. The project includes real-world dataset selection, emphasizing Gemini’s role in
automating tedious data preprocessing tasks. We also integrate explainability techniques to interpret
model predictions, ensuring transparency and trust. Finally, we discuss best practices for optimizing
Gemini-powered workflows in AI-driven applications.
32
Article on Ensemble Models for Data Science:
Introduction to Ensemble Models :
Ensemble models are advanced machine learning techniques that integrate multiple base models to
enhance predictive accuracy and robustness. By leveraging the strengths of different algorithms,
ensemble learning mitigates bias, reduces variance, and minimizes the risk of overfitting. This
approach leads to more reliable and generalizable predictions.
Types of Ensemble Learning :
Bagging (Bootstrap Aggregating): This method trains multiple models on different subsets of
data sampled with replacement. The final output is obtained by averaging (for regression) or
majority voting (for classification), improving model stability and accuracy. A prominent
example is Random Forest.
Boosting: Boosting techniques, such as AdaBoost and Gradient Boosting, train models
sequentially, assigning higher weights to misclassified instances. Each successive model corrects
errors from the previous one, leading to improved performance.
Stacking: In this approach, predictions from multiple base models are combined and passed to a
meta-model, which learns how to optimally aggregate their outputs for superior predictions.
Cascading: A sequential pipeline where the output of one model is refined and used as input for
the next. This is particularly useful in applications like object detection, where initial models
eliminate irrelevant data before specialized models conduct fine-grained classification.
Key Advantages of Ensemble Models
✔
Higher Accuracy: Reduces errors by aggregating multiple models.
✔
Reduced Overfitting: Balances bias and variance to improve model generalization.
✔
Enhanced Generalization: Performs effectively on unseen data.
✔
Optimized Computational Efficiency: Cascading models prioritize relevant predictions,
reducing unnecessary computation.
Applications of Ensemble Learning :
Ensemble methods are widely utilized across various domains, including:
Fraud Detection – Enhancing the identification of fraudulent transactions.
Recommendation Systems – Improving personalization in e-commerce and streaming platforms.
Medical Diagnostics – Increasing the reliability of disease prediction models.
Financial Forecasting – Refining stock market and risk assessment models.
Computer Vision – Strengthening image classification, object detection, and facial recognition.
33
PLACEMENTS
The campus placement process for data science students typically involves a series of rigorous
assessments, including technical interviews, coding challenges. Companies look for candidates who can
not only crunch numbers but also communicate their findings effectively to drive business decisions.
Witnessing students secure placements is truly a heartwarming and exhilarating experience. It is a
testament to their hard work, dedication, and the transformative power of education And 17 students of
our domain’s first batch ( 2021-2025) have already secured their placements.
34
NPTEL From
HIGHEST
DATA SCIENCE PERFORMERS IN
THEIR RESPECTIVE
COURSES
STUDENTS FROM THE CSE-DS PROGRAM HAVE CONSISTENTLY EXCELLED IN
DIVERSE DOMAINS, ACHIEVING TOP PERCENTAGES THROUGH INNOVATIVE
PROJECTS AND RESEARCH. IN DATA SCIENCE, THEY DEVELOPED PREDICTIVE
MODELS WITH HIGH ACCURACY USING ADVANCED ML ALGORITHMS.
THEY IMPLEMENTED SECURE FRAMEWORKS TO MITIGATE POTENTIAL THREATS. THEIR SUCCESS STEMS FROM
HANDS-ON LEARNING, TEAMWORK, AND APPLYING THEORETICAL KNOWLEDGE TO REAL-WORLD CHALLENGES.
THE FOLLWING ARE THE STUDENTS IN TOP PERFORMERS IN THE RESPECTIVE DOMAINS:
Name of the course Student Name
Adepu Yashaswini
Data Analytics with Python Gudikandula Avinash
Naraparaju Tejaswini
Adepu Yashaswini
Battula Sri Harsitha
Bhanu Prasad Bellam
Cloud Computing Chidara Sai Pranay
Gudikandula Avinash
Kolisetty Kamal Kumar
Vedasri Gunti
Data Science for Engineers Kothapally Shiva Kumar
Python for Data Science Laxmipathi Balaji Mittapalli
Design and Analysis of
Goppu Narayana Nishanth
Algorithms
Problem Solving Through C Thati Haripriya
35
INTERNSHIPS
We are delighted to share the remarkable achievements of our talented students at VNR
Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology specially the ones belonging to our
Department as they embark on their journey towards a bright future through our upcoming
campus placements. Our institution has always prioritized academic excellence, skill
development, and holistic education, and the results are evident in the tremendous
opportunities our students are about to achieve. 46% of the Data Science students from
the 2021-2025 batch at VNRVJIET secured internships.
Students of Data science domain belonging to CSE-(CyS,DS) and AI&DS Department have
successfully secured internships at prestigious tech companies and hubs such as JPMC, Oracle,
NSL hub, JNTUH hub,bilvantis and Star Sports.
These internships provide students with invaluable
industry exposure and hands-on experience with
cutting-edge technologies.
DATA SCIENCE
students have a
track record of securing internships that reflect
their dedication, academic excellence, and ambition.
These experiences not only prepare them for
successful careers but also contribute to the
college's reputation for producing well-rounded and
accomplished graduates.
36
SUGGESTIONS &
FEEDBACK
newsletteratdatascience@gmail.com
DROP YOUR
SUGGESTIONS/FEEDBACK
Scan the QR
Send your suggestions &
Feedback through the
form
We invite you to stay connected with us
through our upcoming editions, events,
and club initiatives. Your feedback is
invaluable, and we look forward to
hearing your thoughts and suggestions.
We also encourage you to send articles
or blogs written by you to the above
mentioned email.
We extend our heartfelt gratitude for choosing to
embark on a journey of knowledge with Data Science
Digest. This newsletter is a work of passion and
dedication, made possible by the collaborative efforts
of our editorial team. We strive to bring you thought-
provoking content that not only informs but also
sparks new ideas and perspectives.
Professional Student Chapters
Follow us on
@vnrvjiet.hyd @vnrvjiethyd @VNR VJIET @VNRVJIET
