Conferences, Workshops, Training Programs, Guest Lectures etc. are
During the challenging times of COVID-19, the institute has regained
Each department has a smart classroom equipped with a Smart Board.
Education Technology is facilitating all the faculty members with
Eduprime software by B.Tech. students reflects the implementation of
For effective delivery of curriculum, all the classrooms are
ICT tools in VNRVJIET
Industry and Academia experts for the enhancement of latest
Integrated Library Management System (ILMS) is in place to access the
Microsoft Teams etc., for conducting reviews of technical seminars,
Online selection of open elective and professional elective courses in
Other tools like emails and social media platforms are also utilized
Some of the ICT tools used for effective teaching and learning
The prime focus of VNRVJIET has always been imparting quality
To enrich the teaching and learning with digital resources and
Use of ICT and online teaching and learning is depicted in the figure
VNRVJIET has a vast collection of online resources which faculty and
VNRVJIET has developed its Academic & Learning Management System (LMS)
VNRVJIET has tools and systems available for the faculty to develop
academic flexibility in digital platforms.
and learning content etc. Faculty members also use Google Classroom,
been realigned so as to make extensive use of ICT enabled tools for
below.
called “Eduprime” software and most of the teaching learning process
capacity enhancement of all faculty members to switch to online
comprehensive viva-voce and projects.
conducted in virtual mode/hybrid mode by connecting remotely with
customized with the following features that facilitate services like
digital technologies, the teaching learning process at VNRVJIET has
education through well-defined and up-to-date curriculum and novel
equipped with the following:
for sharing of learning material, NPTEL and YouTube videos as
in-house developed M-LIBRARY mobile app which is useful for all
integration of latest technological education inventions, Centre for
learning
learning, social learning , self-paced learning ,and integrated
library collection remotely through KOHA software and also through an
like, Elsevier, Springer, ASME, ASCE, IEEE, DELNET etc
management. Faculty have prepared video lectures of their courses and
process at VNRVJIET are as follows:
promoting and encouraging student-centred learning, higher order
shared them to the students through LMS, Google Drive and YouTube.
students and faculty.
students can use through digital library software called “KNIMBUS”,
supplementary teaching resources, other MOOC for additional teaching
teaching - learning.
teaching-learning methodologies. The use of ICT tools is indispensable
technical content of their respective courses for efficient content
technological developments.
the teaching learning process at a rapid phase by reiterating the
thinking, problem solving, cooperative learning, collaborative
to effective teaching. With the fast-growing advancements in the
tools have been integrated into it. The Eduprime LMS platform is
training programs on online teaching learning tools, effective
utilization of digital platforms for content development and delivery,
video content development etc
which comprises of online journal databases, e-books and ejournals
