1. Promoting Memorandum of Understanding between the Institute and Industries to share the infrastructural facilities for better Industry-Institute synergy.
1. Signing MOUs with industry, Institutes and R&D organizations. Setting up of technology parks in collaboration with alumni and industry to carry out R & D cost effectively leading to marketable products.
10. Products &Systems Development for industry.
10. Update the knowledge base (qualification) of professionals in different emerging sectors such as IoT/Machine Learning/AI/Composites/Data Analytics etc.
11. Arrange short-term programmes of one week or two weeks duration for the benefit of Professionals in various technical disciplines.
11. Testing and calibration of instruments for industries.
12. Facilitating interaction with industry, R & D organizations, and reputed institutes for conducting collaborative research work involving faculty and students.
12. Organize in-house training programmes on the request of industries at their location.
13. Conducting training programmes in Science, Technology, Engineering and Management (STEM).
13. Promotion of revenue generation activities by Testing, Calibration, Consultancy and R & D typically by
14.	Promotion of Homegrown technologies, which is expected to strengthen the linkages between research institutes and industry by commercialization of indigenously developed technologies.
14. Establishing institutional infrastructure facilities for utilization by the industry in revenue generation.
15. Organizing workshops, conferences and symposia with joint participation of the faculty and the industry.
16. Scholarships/Fellowships instituted by industries at the institute for the students.
17. Recruit of one or two Professors of Practice in each Department for delivery of content and conducting training programs to students.
2. Attract professionals from industry as visiting faculty or Adjunct Professors for short or long periods and deputation of faculty to industry to gain industrial experience and/or work on projects in industry.
2. Involving Experts from Industry in curriculum development and review.
3. Encourage Industry to collaborate in Industry Study Tour Programmes (ISTP) and placement of students in Industries.
3. Facilitating exchange of resource personnel.
4. Facilitating internship opportunities to students in the industry.
4. Interact with R&D Organizations for conducting joint research work involving faculty/scientists and students/research scholars etc.
5. Conduct of industrial visits.
5. Identify experts from industry in curriculum development and review.
6. Conduct Personality development workshops for students relating with soft skills (communication skills / personality development).
6. Developing industry-ready manpower resources.
7. Organize Guest lectures by eminent personalities, academics, leading industrialists at regular intervals to update the student’s knowledge.
7. Undertaking consultancy services.8. Carrying out industry-oriented collaborative R & D projects.9. Establishing institute-industry liaison through conduct of industrial training programmes for practicing engineers.10. Products &Systems Development for industry.11. Testing and calibration of instruments for industries.12. Facilitating interaction with industry, R & D organizations, and reputed institutes for conducting collaborative research work involving faculty and students.13. Conducting training programmes in Science, Technology, Engineering and Management (STEM).14. Establishing institutional infrastructure facilities for utilization by the industry in revenue generation.
8. Carrying out industry-oriented collaborative R & D projects.
8. Organize technical festivals/open houses/student design competitions.
9. Establishing institute-industry liaison through conduct of industrial training programmes for practicing engineers.
9. Provide continuing education programmes to meet the training needs of the industry like upgradation of technical knowledge in emerging technologies, communication and management skills, job analysis, inventory & financial controls etc.
Action Plan
Indian industry at present has reached the most crucial turning point where it has to face the dynamic demands of the competitive domestic and global markets through the provisions of high quality products and services. The Industry-Institute Interaction Cell (IIIC) has been constituted for bridging the gap between Industry & Institute and enhancing the employability of young students by exposing them to latest technologies and industrial practices. It provides a platform for the students and faculty members to be aware of skill sets expected by the industry. IIIC facilitates students and faculty to interact with industry in all possible ways such as internships, industrial visits, expert lectures, in-plant training, exchange of resource personnel, consultancy, collaborative R&D projects etc with the spirit of mutual benefit.
Objectives
The following action plan has been prepared to fulfill the objectives of Industry Institute Interaction cell:
a.   Creating facilities for Design, Development, Testing and improvement of existing practices/ processes/concepts.
b.	Upgradation & modernization of workshops/Laboratories.
c.	Preparation of operator’s manuals, Audio and visual cassettes and assistance in implementation of BIS & ISO standards through conducting various audits and analysis.
d.	Finding solutions of various problems faced by the industry during production and operation of the industrial units.
e.	Conducting market surveys and feasibility studies through projects assigned to the students and providing reports to the industry for their benefit.
f.	Technology transfer
g.	Innovation Centers and Centers of Excellence.
