#exx1-tabs-13
#exx1-tabs-14
(CVPC) with a computer and internet facility, LCD projector,
1905 about palmistry.
25 seating capacity for watching self-learning videos, TED
: The institute is subscribing to Turnitin software to check the
Book Collection
Book Issue Counter
Career Vision Promotion Centre (CVPC)
Career vision promotion centre
Catalogue) which provides information of the library collection
Central Library. Here, the students access the subscribed
Digital Library
Directories, with quick reference facility. The library is well
Dspace Digital LibraryThe Dspace Digital Library is the college’s internal online repository that provides access to academic resources such as previous years’ question papers, project reports, dissertations, faculty publications, e-books, and other institutional documents. This service is available only when connected to the college LAN network, allowing students to browse, search, and download learning materials anytime within campus.Access URL: http://10.45.8.181:8080/dspace
E-Library
E-Resouces
Ekumbh website.  The library also maintains a Book Bank for
Grammarly Checker
Here the library user can find the details of a particular book
Library
Library Automation:The library is automated
Library Catalogue
Library Hall
Library Staff
Library Timings
Library entrance with Flap barrier
Library has a rare book of collection printed from 1900 onwards.
Library has also have palm leaves and old manuscripts.
Manuscripts in Library
Mezzanine Technologies collection
Newspaper room
Open access
Plagiarism Check
Quilbot
RFID GATE -EXIT
RFID Gate at Entrance
Rare Books
Remote access – Knimbus e-Lbrary:
SC/ST students which provides an opportunity to own additional
Telangana. The library maintains an EPS Book bank to issue
The Dspace Digital Library is the college’s internal online repository that provides access to academic resources such as previous years’ question papers, project reports, dissertations, faculty publications, e-books, and other institutional documents. This service is available only when connected to the college LAN network, allowing students to browse, search, and download learning materials anytime within campus.Access URL: http://10.45.8.181:8080/dspace
The Grammarly software is available at digital library for
The Quilbot software is available at digital library for
The above-mentioned e- journal packages are accessible through
The digital library consists of 20 computers connected to an
The final year projects will be checked at department level by
The library has established the Career Vision Promotion Centre
The library has procured Telugu manuscripts written in the year
The library has subscription to six English and two Telugu
The library is opened from 8.00 a.m. to 8.00 p.m. on all working
The library provides remote access facility to its purchased
The library provides remote access to its subscribed content
The library was established in 1995 along with the Institution with a
The library encompasses a Reading room and a Reference section
access in physical and/or online mode. The library has an annual
accessed athttps://vnrvjiet.knimbus.comby self-registration. The training will be provided at digital
accessed through smart phones by downloading mobile app
additional books for the economically weak students those
allocated with 25 user licenses to conduct the plagiarism of
availability by usinghttp://vnr-vjietopac.2cqrkoha.com/
books are shelved as per the Dewey Decimal Classification scheme to
books offered by the Social Welfare Department, Govt. of
catalogue can be accessed through the OPAC (Online Public Access
collection of 500+ books. Now the library has a collection of 82,931
collection that includes 15,188 books, Encyclopedias, Handbooks and
consulting the department coordinator. Each department is
content like IEEE, Science Direct, SpringerLink, ASME, ASCE and
content provided by staff. This knimbus e-library can be
content with help of key words. An user can search the required
content with set of key words instead of registering and searching
daily newspapers which helps to stakeholders to be up to date
days and 9.00 a.m. to 4.00 p.m. during semester end
e -library KNIMBUS software and m-library mobile app also.
each database separately. This means the user will get search
encourage students to access free content from AICTE sponsored
equipped with various learning resources enabling the stakeholders to
examinations. The bus facility is provided up to 8.00 p.m. to
facilitate easy location of the books by following Open Access System.
having the following sections to cater the needs of users.
http://ascelibrary.org
http://asmelibrary.org
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/
http://link.springer.com/
http://sciencedirect.com/
http://vnr-vjietopac.2cqrkoha.com/
https://ascelibrary.org/journals
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/Xplore/guesthome.jsp?reload=true
https://link.springer.com/
https://nlist.inflibnet.ac.in/
https://pubs.aip.org/
https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/library/BOOK INDENT FORM.docx
https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/library/mezzt.xlsx
https://vnrvjiet.knimbus.com
https://www.sciencedirect.com/
internet facility. It is open from 8 am to 8 pm along with the
journals, previous question papers, lecture notes, open access
library is a member of DELNET, N-LIST, NDL (National Digital Library)
library to utilize this e-library.
mLibrary from Google Play Store.
mock tests, etc.
on current affairs.
online content, NPTEL video lectures, and can practice online
online. The library OPAC is accessible with the URLhttp://vnr-vjietopac.2cqrkoha.com/The library has subscription to e-Books of packt , Lakshmi
other uploaded content by the Library. This library is designed by
parental annual income is less than Rs. 2 lakhs. ;.`
password. Here the users can access databases, e-Textbooks, e-
plagiarism check, if their guide is not having Turnitin license.
plagiarism content of publication written by staff and students.
publications written by their students and staff. Those who has
publications, Videeya Books, and N-LIST. The library also
publications, type of publication etc. All these facilities can be
results from ASME, ASCE, IEEE, SpringerLink, etc. at single
search. The search results can be filtered by using year,
self-registration with institute mail ID and with self created
self-using by students and staff by vising physically.
subscription to 1280 online e-journals and 323 print journals. The
their interest.
through KNIMBUS platform. It can be reached through the URL:https://vnrvjiet.knimbus.comThis facility can be used by all the staff and students by
using federated search engine which can search entire purchased
utilize sports and library facilities.
videos, NPTEL Lectures by the users on subject domains of
volumes and 17,585 titles. The library has well maintained reference
which helps to provide hassle-free e-learning unconditionally. The
with Koha Software with RFID technology. The College Library
with reprographic and scanning facilities. The library also
written research papers, M.Tech thesis can approach library for
