SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/A19/ME2.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY HYDERABAD
B.TECH. II YEAR
(MECHANICAL ENGINEERING)
III SEMESTER A19
Contact
Course Code Title of the Course L T P/D Hours/ Credits
Week
Partial Differential Equations and Numerical
A19BS1MT10 3 0 0 3 3
Methods
A19PC1ME01 Metallurgy and Materials Engineering 3 0 0 3 3
A19PC1ME02 Manufacturing Processes 3 0 0 3 3
A19PC1ME03 Fluid Mechanics and Machinery 3 0 0 3 3
A19PC1ME04 Thermodynamics 3 1 0 4 4
Metallurgy and Materials Engineering
A19PC2ME01 0 0 2 2 1
Laboratory
A19PC2ME02 Manufacturing Processes Laboratory 0 0 3 3 1.5
A19PC2ME03 Fluid Mechanics and Machinery Laboratory 0 0 3 3 1.5
Total 15 1 8 24 20
IV SEMESTER A19
Contact
Course Code Title of the Course L T P/D Hours/ Credits
Week
A19PC1ME05 Thermal Engineering 3 0 0 3 3
A19PC1ME06 Kinematics of Machinery 3 1 0 4 4
A19PC1ME07 Machine Tools and Metrology 3 0 0 3 3
A19PC1ME08 Mechanics of Solids 3 0 0 3 3
A19PC1ME09 Instrumentation and Control Systems 3 0 0 3 3
A19PC2ME04 Thermal Engineering Laboratory 0 0 3 3 1.5
A19PC2ME05 Machine Tools and Measurements Laboratory 0 0 3 3 1.5
A19PC2ME06 Mechanics of Solids Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
Total 15 1 8 24 20
A19MN6HS02 Environmental Science 2 0 0 2 0
L – Lecture T – Tutorial P – Practical D – Drawing
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19BS1MT10) PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS AND NUMERICAL METHODS
(Common to ME and AE)
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Differentiation, Integration
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To evaluate Fourier coefficients
• To use method of separation of variables to solve second order Partial Differential
Equations
• To utilize numerical methods to solve non-linear systems
• To know the various methods of interpolation and its application
• To learn concepts of numerical differentiation and integration
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Determine the Fourier series for periodic functions
CO-2: Solve the second order linear partial differential equations
CO-3: Apply numerical methods to find a root of algebraic and transcendental
equations
CO-4: Find the interpolate value from the given set of data points
CO-5: Evaluate problems based on numerical differentiation, integration and
numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations
UNIT – I:
Fourier Series: Introduction of Fourier Series, determination of Fourier coefficients,
Fourier series in an arbitrary interval, Fourier series for even and odd functions, Half
range sine and cosine series
UNIT – II:
Partial Differential Equations of Second Order: Classifications of Second Order Partial
differential Equations, Method of separation of variables, Applications: Problems of
vibrating string- wave equation, Problems of one-dimensional heat equation,
Problems of steady state two dimensional heat flow-Laplace equation.
UNIT – III:
Solutions of Non-linear Systems: Introduction; Mathematical preliminaries; Solution of
algebraic and transcendental equations–bisection method, the method of false
position, Fixed point iterative method, Newton - Raphson method, and their order of
convergence.
UNIT – IV:
Interpolation: Introduction; Errors in polynomial interpolation; Finite differences;
Forward differences; Backward differences; Central differences; Symbolic relations
and separation of symbols; Differences of a polynomial; Newton’s formulae for
interpolation; Central difference interpolation formulae; Gauss’s central difference
formulae and Lagrange’s interpolation formulae.
UNIT – V:
Numerical Differentiation and Integration: Numerical differentiation based on
interpolation, Numerical integration: Trapezoidal rule, Simpson’s 1/3 rule, and
Simpson’s 3/8 rule, Gaussian quadrature 2 & 3-point formulae.
UNIT – VI:
Numerical Solutions of Ordinary Differential Equations: Solution of initial value problems
by Taylor’s series - Picard’s method of successive approximations, Euler’s method,
Modified Euler’s method and Runge - Kutta methods.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics, B. V. Ramana, McGraw-Hill
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics, Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition, John Wiley
3. Introductory Methods of Numerical Analysis, S. S. Sastry, PHI learning Pvt. Ltd.
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics, Peter ‘O’ Neil, Cengage Learning
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics, R. K. Jain and S. R. K. Iyengar, Narosa
Publication
3. Higher Engineering Mathematics, B. S. Grewal, 36th Edition, Khanna Publishers, 2010
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1ME01) METALLURGY AND MATERIALS ENGINEERING
(Common to ME and AE)
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Physics and Chemistry
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To understand the microstructures of different types of metal and alloys –cast iron,
steels, non-ferrous metal and alloys
• To understand the heat treatment principles-annealing, normalizing and
hardening
• To understand the different types of tools
• To understand the importance of titanium & its alloys
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Distinguish different types of metals, solid solutions, alloys compounds and
phases
CO-2: Design a heat treatment process to change the properties-hardness, ductility,
etc
CO-3: Analyze the characters and failure of metals and alloys
CO-4: Explain & justify the usage of composites in engineering field
UNIT – I:
Metal Structure and Crystallization: Introduction - atom binding, ionic bond, covalent
bond, metallic bond, and Vander Waals forces; Crystal imperfections.
Overview of Metal Structure and Crystallization.
Constitution of Alloys: Introduction; Classification of alloys or compounds; Pure metal;
Intermediate alloy phase or compound - intermetallic compounds or valency
compounds, interstitial compounds, and electron compounds; Solid solutions;
Substitution solid solution - factors that control the range of solubility in alloy system;
Interstitial solid solutions.
UNIT – II:
Phase Diagrams: Introduction; Coordinates of phase diagrams; Experimental methods
- construction of equilibrium diagrams by thermal analysis, metallographic methods,
and X-ray diffraction; Type-I-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid and solid
states; Chemical composition of phases; relative amounts of each phase; Equilibrium
cooling of a solid solution alloy; Diffusion; Nonequilibrium cooling; Homogenization;
Properties of solid-solution alloys; Variation of Type I; Type II-Two metals completely
soluble in the liquid state and completely insoluble in the solid state; Type III-Two metals
completely soluble in the liquid state but only partly soluble in the solid state; Properties
of eutectic alloy systems; Age hardening – solution treatment, and aging process;
Type IV-The congruent-melting intermediate phase; Type V-The peritectic reaction;
Type VI-Two liquids partly soluble in the liquid state: the monotectic reaction; Type
VII-two metals insoluble in the liquid and solid states; Interrelation of basic types;
UNIT – III:
The Heat Treatment of Steel: Introduction; Full Annealing; Spheroidizing; Stress-relief
annealing; Process annealing; Normalizing; Hardening; The isothermal transformation
diagram; Cooling curves and I-T Diagram; Transformation on continuous cooling;
Position of the I-T curves, Hardening or austenitizing temperature, Mechanism of heat
removal during quenching - vapor-blanket cooling state (stage A), vapor transport
cooling stage (stage B), Liquid cooling stage (stage C); Quenching medium;
Temperature of quenching medium, Surface condition - methods to minimize the
formation of scale - copper plating, protective atmosphere, liquid-salt pots, and cast-
iron chips; Size and Mass, Hardenability; Use of Hardenability data; Tempering;
Austempering; Surface heat treatment or case hardening; Carburizing; Heat
treatment after carburizing; Cyaniding and Carbonitriding; Nitriding; Flame
hardening; Induction Hardening.
UNIT – IV:
Alloy Steels: Introduction; Purpose of alloying; Effect of alloying elements upon Ferrite;
Effect of alloying elements upon carbide; Influence of alloying elements on the iron-
iron carbide diagram; Effect of alloying elements in tampering; Classification of steels
- nickel steel, chromium steel, nickel-chromium steels, manganese steels,
molybdenum steels, tungsten steels, vanadium steels, silicon steels, stainless steels,
martensitic stainless steels, ferritic stainless steels, austenitic stainless steels,
precipitation-hardening stainless steels, maraging steels, and ausforming.
Tool Steels: Classification of tool steels; Selection of tool steels; Comparative
properties; Non-deforming properties; Depth of hardening; Toughness; Wear
resistance; Red-hardness; Machinability; Resistance to decarburization; Brand names;
Water-hardening tool steels (Group W); Shock resisting tool steels (Group S); Cold-work
tool steels; Hot-work tool steels (Group H); High speed tool steels; Mold Steels (Group
P); Special purpose tool steels; Heat treatment of tool steels; Overview of tool failures;
Special cutting materials – satellites, cemented carbides, and ceramic tools.
UNIT – V:
Cast Iron: Introduction; Types of cast iron; White cast iron; Malleable cast iron; Pearlitic
malleable iron; Gray cast iron; Silicon in cast iron; Sulfur in cast iron; Manganese in cast
iron; Phosphorus in cast iron; Heat treatment of grey iron, Size and distribution of
graphite flakes; Mechanical properties and applications of grey cast iron; Chilled cast
iron; Nodular cast iron; Alloy cast irons.
Non-Ferrous Metals and Alloys: Introduction; Copper and its alloys - Copper, temper
designation of copper and copper alloys, and copper alloys; Aluminum and its alloys
- Aluminum, Alloy designation system, and temper designation; Titanium and Titanium
alloys.
UNIT – VI:
Composites: Introduction, classification of composites-Fibre reinforced composites,
Pertial reinforced composites, Dispersion strengthened metals, laminates; Advanced
Fibre reinforced composites –Metal matrix composites, Ceramic –matrix composites,
Carbon - Carbon composites, Hybrid composites; Fabrication of Fibre- reinforced
composites-Hand lay –up process, Filament winding process, Sheet- moulding
compound process, continuous pultrusion process, resin transfer moulding, vacuum-
bag moulding.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Introduction to Physical Metallurgy, Sidney H. Avner, McGraw Hill
2. Materials Science and Metallurgy, Kodgire, Everest
REFERENCES:
1. Essentials of Materials Science and Engineering, Donald R. Askeland and Thomson
2. Materials Science and Engineering, William and Collister
3. Elements of Materials Science, V. Raghavan
4. Metallurgy and Material Science, Pakirappa
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1ME02) MANUFACTURING PROCESSES
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Material Science, Manufacturing Science
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To understand about sand casting and metal casting techniques
• To impart the knowledge of various welding processes
• To evaluate the importance of rolling, forging and sheet metal operations
• To analyze the processing of plastics
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Analyze and select the suitable casting technique for making the components
CO-2: Analyze the different types of welding processes are needed for various
materials and importance of welding
CO-3: Apply the methods involved in sheet metal operations, rolling, forging etc
CO-4: Apply the various manufacturing methods in processing of plastics
UNIT – I:
Casting: Steps involved in making a casting; Advantage of casting and its
applications; Types of Foundry sands, Types of patterns – Materials used for patterns;
Pattern allowances and their construction; Principles of Gating, Gating ratio and
design of gating systems. Risers; Types; Casting design considerations;
Special Casting Processes: Centrifugal, Die, Investment casting only, Cupola furnace
and Electric arc furnace only.
UNIT – II:
Welding: Classification of welding processes, types of welds and welded joints, Gas
welding, ARC welding, Resistance welding, Thermit welding and Plasma welding. TIG
& MIG welding, Friction stir welding, Explosive welding, Soldering & Brazing. Heat
affected zones in welding; welding defects.
UNIT – III:
Mechanical Working-1: Hot working; Cold working; Strain hardening; Recovery;
Recrystallisation and grain growth; Comparison of properties of cold and hot worked
parts.
Rolling: Rolling fundamentals; Theory of rolling; Types of Rolling mills and products.
UNIT – IV:
Extrusion: Basic extrusion process and its characteristics; Hot extrusion and Cold
extrusion; Forward extrusion and backward extrusion – Impact extrusion; Hydrostatic
extrusion; Extrusion defects.
Forging Processes: Principles of Forging; Tools and dies; Types of Forging; Smith forging;
Drop Forging; Roll Forging; Rotary Forging; Forging defects.
UNIT – V:
Mechanical Working-2: Stamping, forming and other cold working processes:
Blanking and piercing; Bending and forming; Drawing and its types; Wire drawing and
Tube drawing; Coining; Hot and cold spinning
UNIT – VI:
Plastic Materials and Processes: Types of plastics; advantages of plastics, Injection
moulding; Blow moulding; Thermoforming. Compression moulding.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Manufacturing Technology, P. N. Rao
2. Production Technology, R. K. Jain
REFERENCES:
1. Manufacturing Engineering and Technology, Kalpakjian S.
2. Process and Materials of Manufacturing, Lindberg/PE
3. Principles of Metal Castings, Rosenthal
4. Welding Process, Parmar
5. Production Technology, Sharma P. C.
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1ME03) FLUID MECHANICS AND MACHINERY
(Common to ME and AE)
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To understand the properties of fluids, principles of buoyancy, flow, force and
head calculations
• To evaluate of types of fluid flow, Laminar and dynamic
• To know boundary layer principles applied to airfoils
• To learn principles of operation of different types of hydraulic machinery
• To understand hydraulic systems
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Analyze the fluid properties to solve flow, force and velocity problems
CO-2: Evaluate the flow characterizing in static and dynamic nature of flow
CO-3: Apply fluid flow and dynamics in solving problems in hydraulic machines
CO-4: Understand the model analysis of hydraulic machinery and select appropriate
machines for hydro power plant
CO-5: Analyze the hydraulic systems
UNIT – I:
Fluid Statics: Properties of fluid – specific gravity, viscosity, surface tension, vapor
pressure and their influence on fluid motion, Pressure at a point, measurement of
pressure, Forces on immersed surfaces, Center of pressure, Buoyancy, Elements of
stability of floating and submerged bodies.
UNIT – II:
Fluid Kinematics: Introduction, methods of describing the fluid motion, Classification
of flows, acceleration equations, Stream line, path line and streak lines and stream
tube, continuity equation, Stream function, velocity potential function, introduction to
free and forced vortex flows.
UNIT – III:
Fluid Dynamics: Surface and body forces – Euler‘s and Bernoulli‘s equation,
Venturimeter, Orifice meter, Pitot tube, Reynolds experiment –Darcy Weisbach
equation – Minor losses in pipes – pipes in series and pipes in parallel. Momentum
equation, force on pipe bends.
UNIT – IV:
Boundary Layer Theory: Development of boundary layer along a thin flat plate,
laminar boundary layer and turbulent boundary layer, Laminar sub layer, boundary
layer separation, Drag and lift forces - Aero foils, pressure and form drags.
Impact of Jets: Hydrodynamic force of jets on flat, inclined and curved vanes - jet
striking centrally and at tip, flow over radial vanes.
UNIT – V:
Hydraulic Turbines: Classification of turbines, design of Pelton wheel, Francis turbine
and Kaplan turbine – working proportion, work done, efficiency, draft tube- theory,
functions and efficiency. Geometric similarity, Unit and specific quantities,
characteristic curves, governing of turbines, selection of type of turbine, cavitation,
surge tank and water hammer, elements of hydropower plant.
UNIT – VI:
Hydraulic Pumps: Classification, centrifugal pumps – types, working, work done,
monomeric head, losses and efficiency, specific speed – pumps in series and parallel
– performance characteristic curves, NPSH, Reciprocating Pump – types, Working,
Discharge, slip, indicator diagrams
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Hydraulics and Fluid Mechanics Including Hydraulics Machines, P. N. Modi, S. M.
Seth
2. Introduction to Fluid Mechanics, R. W. Fox, A. T. McDonald and P. J. Pritchard
REFERENCES:
1. Fluid Mechanics, V. L. Streeter & E. B. Wylie
2. Fluid Mechanics, Fundamentals & Applications, Yunus A. Çengel, John M. Cimbala
3. Fluid Mechanics, F. M. White
4. Fundamentals of Fluid Mechanics, Bruce Roy Munson, Donald F. Young, Theodore
H. Okiishi, Wade W. Huebsch, Wiley Publication
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(A19PC1ME04) THERMODYNAMICS
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Physics, Mathematics
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To apply the basic concepts of thermodynamics, heat and work done on the
system
• To apply the basic concepts of Thermodynamic Laws for various thermodynamic
systems
• To evaluate the properties of pure substance and to analyse the concept of
irreversibility and availability
• To apply the basic concept of power cycles for External combustion engines and
internal combustion engines
• To evaluate the behaviour of ideal gas mixtures and thermodynamic properties
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: To apply the basic concepts of thermodynamics, heat and work done on the
system.
CO-2: To apply the basic concepts of thermodynamic laws for various
thermodynamic systems
CO-3: To evaluate the properties of pure substance and analyse the concept of
irreversibility and availability
CO-4: To apply the basic concept of power cycles for external combustion engines
and internal combustion engines
CO-5: To evaluate the behaviour of ideal gas mixtures and thermodynamic properties
UNIT – I:
Concepts and Definitions: Thermodynamic system and control volume; Macroscopic
versus microscopic point of view; Properties and state of a substance; Processes and
cycles, Energy, Specific volume and density, Equality of temperature; The Zeroth law
of thermodynamics; Temperature scales.
Work and Heat: Definition of work; Units for work; Work done at the moving boundary
of a simple compressible system; Other systems that involve work; Definition of heat;
Heat transfer modes; Comparison of heat and work.
UNIT – II:
The First Law of Thermodynamics: The first law of thermodynamics for a control mass
undergoing a cycle; The first law of thermodynamics for a change in state of a control
mass; Internal energy-a thermodynamic property; Problem analysis and solution
technique; Enthalpy; The constant-volume and constant-pressure specific heats; The
internal energy, enthalpy, and specific heat of ideal gases; The first law as a rate
equation.
First Law Analysis for a Control Volume: Conversion of mass and the control volume,
the first law of thermodynamics for a control volume, The steady-state process;
Examples of steady-state processes.
UNIT – III:
The Second Law of Thermodynamics: Heat engines and refrigerators; The second law
of thermodynamics; The reversible process; Factors that render processes irreversible;
The Carnot cycle; Two propositions regarding the efficiency of a Carnot cycle; The
thermodynamic temperature scale; The ideal-gas temperature scale; Ideal versus real
machines.
Entropy for a Control Mass: The inequality of Clausius; Entropy — a property of a
system; The entropy of a pure substance; Entropy change in reversible processes; The
thermodynamic property relation; Entropy change of an ideal gas; The reversible
polytropic process for an ideal gas; Entropy change of a control mass during an
irreversible process; Entropy generation; Principle of increase of entropy; Entropy as a
rate equation.
UNIT – IV :
Irreversibility and Availability: Available energy; Available energy Referred to a cycle;
Quality of energy; Maximum work in a reversible process; reversible work by an open
system; Exchanging heat only with the surroundings; Useful work; Dead state;
Availability; Availability in chemical reaction; Irreversibility and Gouy-stodola Theorem;
Availability or Exergy Balance; second law efficiency;
Properties of a Pure Substance: The pure substance; Vapor- liquid- solid- phase
equilibrium in a pure substance; Independent properties of a pure substance; Steam
Tables; Thermodynamic surfaces; The compressibility factor; Equations of state.
UNIT – V:
Power Cycles: Introduction to power systems; The Rankine cycle; Effect of pressure
and temperature on the Rankine cycle; Air-standard power cycles; Basic Brayton
cycle; The air-standard cycle for jet propulsion; Reciprocating engine power cycles;
The Otto cycle; The Diesel cycle; The Dual cycle, The Stirling cycle; The Atkinson and
Miller cycles.
UNIT – VI:
Properties of Gases and Gas Mixtures: Avogadro’s Law; Ideal Gas; Equation of State;
Law of Corresponding; Properties of Mixture of Gases-Dalton’s Law of Partial Pressures;
Internal Energy, Enthalpy, and Specific Heats of Gas Mixtures; Entropy of Gas Mixtures;
Gibbs Function of a Mixture of Inert ideal Gas; Thermodynamic Property Relations:
Mathematical relations for a homogeneous phase; The Maxwell relations;
Thermodynamic relations involving enthalpy, internal energy,
and entropy; The Clapeyron equation; Joule-Thompson coefficient.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Thermodynamics, P. K. Nag, McGraw Hill
2. Fundamentals of Thermodynamics, C. Borgnakke, R. E. Sonntag, and G. J. Van
Wylen, John Wiley
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Thermodynamics, Burgadt, Harper & Row Publication
2. Thermodynamics - An Engineering Approach, Yunus Cengel and Boles, Tata
McGraw Hill
3. Engineering Thermodynamics, P. Chattopadhyay, Oxford University Press
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
0 2 1
(A19PC2ME01) METALLURGY AND MATERIALS ENGINEERING LABORATORY
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Metallurgy and Material Science
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To understand the significance of microstructure of non-ferrous materials under
microscopic testing
• To understand the changes in microstructures after different heat treatments
processes
• To understand the significance of microstructure of ferrous materials under
microscopic testing
• To understand the changes processes of testing for different materials
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Test and Identify different microstructures of various materials
CO-2: Prepare appropriate heat treatment for a given material by checking its
microstructure
CO-3: Conduct mechanical test on ferrous and non-ferrous materials for mechanical
properties
CO-4: Able to identify and analyze various mechanical properties for different
mechanical applications
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
1. Preparation and study of the microstructure of metals like Iron, Cu and Al.
2. Preparation and study of the microstructure of mild steels, low carbon steels, and
high carbon steels.
3. Study of the microstructures of cast irons.
4. Study of the microstructures of non-ferrous alloys.
5. Study of the microstructures of heat-treated steels.
6. Hardenability of steels by Jominy end quench test.
7. Study the micro structure of cutting tools.
8. Study the micro structures of stainless steel.
9. Study and test the mechanical properties of cutting tools.
10. Comparing the mechanical properties through micro structure of weld metals
11. Study of different micro structures under various stresses
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 1.5
(A19PC2ME02) MANUFACTURING PROCESSES LABORATORY
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Production Technology
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To understand and evaluate casting techniques and sand properties
• To understand different welding processes and their use
• To understand different press working operations
• To understand about the processing of plastics
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Apply the knowledge involved in casting techniques
CO-2: Decide the selection of various welding techniques applicable for different
materials
CO-3: Integrate the knowledge involved in press working operations
CO-4: Analyze the techniques involved in processing of plastics
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
ANY 10 EXPERIMENTS to be performed from the following:
I. Metal Casting:
1. Pattern Design and making - for one casting drawing
2. Sand properties testing - Exercise -for strengths, and permeability – 2 Exercise
3. Moulding, Melting and Casting - 1 Exercise
II. Welding:
1. Arc Welding Lap and Butt Joint - 2 Exercises
2. Spot Welding - 1 Exercise
3. TIG Welding - 1 Exercise
4. MIG Welding - 1 Exercise
5. Brazing - 1 Exercise
III. Mechanical Press Working:
1. Blanking and Piercing operations
2. Bending operation
IV. Processing of Plastics:
1. Injection Molding
2. Blow molding
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 1.5
(A19PC2ME03) FLUID MECHANICS AND MACHINERY LABORATORY
(Common to ME and AE)
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulic Machines
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To analyze the experiments to understand the concept, find the values and obtain
the result of experiments
• To apply fundamental principles of fluid mechanics for the solution of practical
mechanical engineering problems of water conveyance in pipes, orifices, mouth
pieces, notches & weirs
• To analyze various pumps, water turbines, pipes and pressure measurement
devices
• To evaluate efficiency for pumps and turbines
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Apply fundamental equations of fluid mechanics for turbines and pumps
CO-2: Model and analyse fluid flow problems in mechanical engineering
CO-3: Create a model of fluid flow equipment
CO-4: Evaluate the experimental results with theoretical concepts
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
ANY 10 EXPERIMENTS to be conducted from the following:
1. Verification of Bernoulli’s theorem
2. Calibration of Venturimeter / Orifice meter
3. Calibration of notches
4. Determination of friction factor for a given pipe
5. Determination of Minor losses for the given equipment
6. Impact of jet on vanes
7. Performance test on Pelton wheel
8. Performance test on Francis turbine
9. Performance test on Kaplan turbine
10. Performance test on single stage centrifugal pump
11. Performance test on multistage centrifugal pump
12. Performance test on reciprocating pump
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1ME05) THERMAL ENGINEERING
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Mathematics, Thermodynamics
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To analyse the actual cycles and systems of Internal Combustion Engine
• To analyse the combustion phenomena in Spark Ignition and Compression Ignition
Engines
• To evaluate the performance parameters of internal combustion engines
• To analyse working and the performance of reciprocating compressor
• To evaluate the COP of different refrigeration cycles and to measure the
psychrometric properties of air-conditioning system
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Analyse the actual cycles and compare it with the air standard cycle of the
given engine
CO-2: Analyse the combustion phenomena in Spark Ignition and Compression ignition
engines
CO-3: Evaluate the performance parameters (Brake power, Friction power, Torque,
Efficiencies) of internal combustion engines
CO-4: Analyse working and the performance of (Isothermal efficiency, volumetric
efficiency) reciprocating compressor
CO-5: Evaluate the COP of different refrigeration cycles and to measure the
psychrometric properties of air
UNIT – I:
Actual Cycles and Their Analysis: Introduction, Comparison of Air Standard and
Actual Cycles, Time Loss Factor, Heat Loss Factor, Exhaust blow down, Loss due to Gas
exchange process, Volumetric Efficiency, Loss due to Rubbing Friction, Actual and
Fuel-Air Cycles of I.C. Engines.
UNIT – II:
I. C. Engines: Classification, Working principles, Valve and Port Timing Diagrams, Air
Standard, air-fuel and actual cycles, Engine systems; Fuel Systems, Simple Carburetor,
Solex Carburetor, Fuel Injection Systems; Ignition systems, Battery ignition, Magneto
ignition, Cooling and Lubrication systems.
UNIT – III:
Combustion in S. I. Engines: Homogeneous mixture, Heterogeneous mixture, Stages of
combustion, Flame front propagation, Factors influencing the flame speed, Rate of
pressure rise, Abnormal combustion, Phenomenon of Knock, Types of Combustion
chambers, Fuel requirements and fuel rating
Combustion in C. I. Engines: Combustion process, stages of combustion, Delay period
and its importance, Factors affecting Delay period, Diesel Knock, Comparison of
Knock in C.I and S.I engine, Combustion chambers in C.I. Engine, Fuel requirements
and fuel rating.
UNIT – IV:
Testing and Performance: Measurement and Testing; Friction power, Indicated power,
Brake power, Fuel consumption, Air consumption, Emissions Performance parameters;
Engine power, Engine efficiencies, Engine performance characteristics, Heat
Balance.
UNIT – V:
Reciprocating Air Compressors: Classification; Reciprocating Compressor: Principle of
operation, Work required, Isothermal efficiency, Volumetric efficiency and effect of
clearance, Multi stage compression with inter cooling, Saving of work, Minimum work
condition for stage compression.
UNIT – VI:
Introduction to Refrigeration Cycle and Psychrometric Properties: Ideal Refrigeration
cycles - Vapor compression refrigeration cycle, Bell Colman refrigeration cycle,
Vapour Absorption Refrigeration System
Psychrometric properties - Dry bulb temperature, Wet bulb temperature, Dew point
temperature, Specific humidity, Relative humidity, Degree of saturation, Specific
enthalpy, Psychrometric chart, (Indicating only Psychrometric processes on Chart)
TEXT BOOKS:
1. I. C. Engines, V. Ganesan, Tata McGraw-Hill
2. Thermal Engineering, Mahesh M. Rathore, Tata McGraw-Hill
REFERENCES:
1. Refrigeration & Air Conditioning, C. P. Arora, Tata McGraw-Hill
2. I. C. Engines, Heywood, Tata McGraw-Hill
3. Thermal Engineering, Rajput, Lakshmi Publication
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(A19PC1ME06) KINEMATICS OF MACHINERY
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Geometrical Construction, Engineering Mechanics
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To understand mechanisms for motion transmission
• To understand the construction methods for drawing velocity and acceleration
diagrams
• To design engineering applications involving in selection, sizing of mechanism to
accomplish motion objectives
• To understand the mechanism involving cams, gears and gear trains
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Draw velocity and acceleration diagrams of various parts of a machine along
with the transmission Mechanisms
CO-2: Design components of machine parts, structures, gears, cams, belts, pulleys,
etc. for kinematic analysis
CO-3: Understand the straight-line motion mechanisms, Hooke’s joint and steering
mechanisms
CO-4: Design the mechanisms after analysis for safety and efficient working
UNIT – I:
Mechanisms and Machines: Elements or links-classification-rigid link, flexible and fluid
link-types of kinematic pairs-sliding pairs, turning, rolling, screw and spherical pairs-
lower and higher pairs-closed and open pairs-constrained motion-completely,
partially or successfully constrained and incompletely constrained mechanisms
Machines: Classification of machines- kinematic chain-inversion of mechanism-
inversions of quadric cycle chain, single and double slider crank chains, Intermittent
motion mechanisms.
UNIT – II:
Kinematics: Velocity and acceleration-motion of link in machine-Construction of
velocity and acceleration diagrams-graphical method- Application of relative
velocity method- four bar chain.
Analysis of Mechanisms: Analysis of slider crank chain for displacement, velocity and
acceleration of slider- acceleration diagram for a given mechanism, Klein’s
construction, Coriolis acceleration, determination of Coriolis component of
acceleration.
Plane Motion of Body: Instantaneous center of rotation, centroids and axodes -
relative motion between two bodies-Three centers in line theorem-Graphical
determination of instantaneous centre, analysis of simple mechanisms and
determination of linear velocity and angular velocity of links.
UNIT – III:
Mechanisms and Hooke’s Joint: Condition for correct steering –Davis steering gear,
Ackerman’s steering gear-velocity -ratio - Single and double Hooke’s Joint- Universal
coupling-applications- problems.
Straight Line Motion Mechanisms: Exact and approximate-copied and generated
types - Peaucellier, Hart and Scott Russell- Grasshopper- Watt-Tchebicheff and Robert
mechanism and straight line motion, Pantograph.
UNIT – IV:
Cams: Definition of cam and followers-their uses-types of followers and cams-
terminology-types of follower motion-uniform velocity-simple harmonic motion and
uniform acceleration, maximum velocity and acceleration during outward and return
strokes in the above three cases. Overview of polynomial motions, Analysis of motion
of followers: roller follower- circular cam with straight, concave and convex flanks.
UNIT – V:
Higher Pairs: Friction wheels and toothed gears-types-law of gearing, condition for
constant velocity ratio for transmission of motion, forms of teeth- Cycloidal and
Involute profiles. Velocity of sliding-phenomena of interference-methods of
interference, condition for minimum number of teeth to avoid interference, expression
for arc of contact and path of contact- introduction to helical, bevel and worm
gearing, Central distance for a pair of spiral gears. Efficiency of spiral gears.
UNIT – VI:
Gear Trains: Introduction-train value-types-simple, compound and reverted wheel
trains – epicyclic gear train, methods of finding train value or velocity ratio-selection
and determination of torque, differential gear box for an automobile.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Theory of Machines, Thomas Bevan
2. Theory of Machines, Rattan
REFERENCES:
1. Theory of Machines, P. L. Ballaney
2. Theory of Machines, R. S. Khurmi & J. K. Gupta
3. Theory of Machines, Sadhu Singh
4. Theory of Machines, Shigley
5. Mechanism and Machine Theory, J. S. Rao and R. V. Dukkipati
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1ME07) MACHINE TOOLS AND METROLOGY
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Production Technology and Engineering Materials
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To understand about the importance of metal cutting and cutting tools
• To understand different types of machine tools and the operations
• To learn about broaching, gear cutting, metal finishing processes
• To learn the measurement standards and methods of measurement
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Acquire basic knowledge on metal cutting, tools and the type of cutting tool
materials in machining
CO-2: Understand various types of machine tools, principles and the operations
performed
CO-3: Knowledge of broaching, gear cutting and finishing operations- grinding and
super finishing operations
CO-4: Understand the measurement principles and methods
MACHINE TOOLS
UNIT – I:
Introduction: Material removal processes, Types of Machine Tools; Types of cutting
tools (Single and multi-point) and Nomenclature of Single point cutting tools.
Metal Cutting: Chip Formation, Shear Zone, Orthogonal & oblique Cutting, Merchant
circle diagram (construction only), Tool Wear and Tool Life; Surface Finish; types of
Cutting Tool Materials.
UNIT – II:
Machine Tools:
Centre Lathe: Constructional Features of a Centre Lathe, Cutting Tools, Operations
Performed in a Centre Lathe.
Special Purpose Lathes: Limitations of a Centre Lathe, Capstan and Turret Lathes-
construction and differences.
UNIT – III:
Milling: Types of Milling Machines, Milling Cutters and Milling Operations.
Hole Making Operations: Types of hole-making operations (basic).
Drilling: Twist drill geometry; Types of drills; Drilling machine types.
Boring: Principle and types of boring machines- horizontal boring and Jig boring
machines.
Reciprocating Machine Tools: Introduction of Shaper, Slotter and Planer.
UNIT – IV:
Other Machine Tools:
Broaching: Principle and Types of Broaching, Gear Cutting methods(basics), Gear
Hobbing (principle & operation)
Grinding & Superfinishing Processes: Grinding: Principle of grinding; Types of Grinding
Machines- Cylindrical grinding, Centerless Grinding & Surface Grinding processes;
Superfinishing: Basics of Honing, Lapping and Superfinishing.
METROLOGY
UNIT – V:
Systems of Limits and Fits: Introduction, normal size, tolerance limits, deviations,
allowance, fits and their types – unilateral and bilateral tolerance system, hole and
shaft basis systems – interchangeability and selective assembly.
Linear Measurement: Limit Gauges; Go and No go gauges- plug, ring, snap, gap,
taper, profile position gauges and slip gauges;
Angular Measurement: sine bar, spirit level, angle slip gages and sine plate.
UNIT – VI:
Screw Thread Measurement: Elements of measurement; Measurement of- effective
diameter, angle of thread and thread pitch.
Gear Measurement: Gear measuring instruments, Gear tooth profile measurement.
Measurement of diameter, pitch pressure angle and tooth thickness
Optical Measuring Instruments: Tool maker’s microscope and its uses; optical projector
Surface Roughness Measurement: Differences between surface roughness and
surface waviness; Numerical assessment of surface finish – CLA, R.M.S Values, Rz
values; Measurement of surface finish.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Manufacturing Technology, Vol. 2, Metal Cutting and Machine Tools, P. N. Rao,
Tata McGraw Hill
2. Engineering Metrology, R. K. Jain, Khanna
3. Engineering Metrology, I. C. Gupta, Dhanpat Rai
REFERENCES:
1. Manufacturing Engineering and Technology, Serope Kalpak Jian, Pearson
Learning
2. A textbook of Manufacturing Technology (Manufacturing Processes), Laxmi
Publications, R. K. Rajput
3. Fundamentals of Modern Manufacturing, Mikell P. Groover
4. Production Technology, R. K. Jain & S. C. Gupta
5. BIS standards on Limits and Fits, Surface Finish, Machine Tool Alignment etc.
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1ME08) MECHANICS OF SOLIDS
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Mathematics, Physics and Engineering Mechanics
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To list and define the Material properties and show the relationships between them
• To describe principles of Mechanics, Stress and Strain
• To demonstrate throughly the concepts of principal stresses applied to solid
structural members and Mohr’s circle diagram
• To analyse various types of mechanical engineering problems concern to bending
of beams, torsion of shafts etc.
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Show basic stress strain equations with appropriate assumptions
CO-2: Interpret model and analyze solid mechanics problems on bars, beams and
shafts
CO-3: Apply the concepts of principal stresses in real life design issues
CO-4: Analyse and develop beams, shafts for various applications
UNIT – I:
Tension, Compression, and Shear: Introduction; Normal Stress and Strain; Stress-strain
diagrams; Elasticity and plasticity; Linear elasticity and Hooke’s law; Allowable stress
and allowable loads.
Axially Loaded Members: Introduction; Deflections of axially loaded members; Strain
energy; Dynamic loading.
Thermal Stresses
UNIT – II:
Shear Force and Bending Moment Diagrams: Types of beams; Types of loading; Shear
force and bending moment; Relationship between load, shear force and bending
moment; Shear force and bending moment diagrams.
UNIT – III:
Area Moment of Inertia of Composite Sections:
Stresses in Beams: Introduction; Normal strains in beams; Normal stresses in beams;
Cross-sectional shapes of beams-C, angular and semicircle structures; Shear stresses
in rectangular beams; Shear stress in webs of beams with flanges; Shear stress in
circular beams (solid and hollow sections); Concept of shear center and shear flow.
UNIT – IV:
Analysis of Stress and Strain: Introduction; Plane stress; Principal stresses and maximum
shear stresses; Mohr’s circle for plane stress; Hooke’s law for plane stress; Spherical and
cylindrical pressure vessels (biaxial stress; Hoop and longitudinal stresses); Combined
loadings (plane stress); Principal stresses in beams.
UNIT – V:
Deflections of Beams: Introduction; Differential equations of the deflection curve;
Deflections by integration of the bending moment equation; Deflections by
integration of the shear-force and load equations; Macaulay’s method; Moment area
method; Method of superposition.
UNIT – VI:
Columns: Short columns, Euler’s theory for axially loaded elastic long columns,
Effective length, Limitations of Euler’s Theory, Rankine’s formula
Torsion: Introduction; Torsion of circular bars; Non uniform torsion; Pure shear;
Relationship between modulus of elasticity E and G; Transmission of power by circular
shafts.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Mechanics of Materials, Gere J. M., Goodno B. J., Cengage Learning, 2012
2. Strength of Materials, S. S. Rattan, Tata McGraw-Hill Education, 2nd Edition, 2011
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Mechanics of Solids, Popov E. P., Prentice Hall of India Private Limited,
2004
2. Mechanics of Materials, Beer F. P., Johnson E. R., and DeWolf J. T., Tata McGraw-
Hill, 2004
3. Strength of Materials, Schaum’s Series, 6th Edition, Mcgraw-Hill Book Company
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(A19PC1ME09) INSTRUMENTATION AND CONTROL SYSTEMS
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Metrology
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To provide basic knowledge in transduction principles, sensors and transducer
technology and measurement systems
• To provide better familiarity with the Theoretical and Practical concepts of
automation in industries
• To provide familiarity with different sensors and their application in real time
applications
• To provide the knowledge of various measurement methods of industrial
parameters like velocity, acceleration, torque, pressure, flow, temperature etc.
and control of the same
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Know instrumentation system used in the industry
CO-2: Appreciate the automation with the help of instrumentation
CO-3: Understand the experimental applications and selecting appropriate
engineering modules
CO-4: Develop aptitude for self-learning and modern technical skills beyond the
curriculum
UNIT – I:
Definition: Basic principles of measurement - Measurement systems, generalized
configuration and functional descriptions of measuring instruments - examples.
Dynamic performance characteristics - sources of error, Classification and elimination
of error,
UNIT – II:
Measurement of Displacement: Theory and construction of various transducers to
measure displacement - Piezo electric, Inductive, capacitance, resistance, ionization
and Photo electric transducers, Calibration procedures.
Measurement of Temperature:
Classification - Ranges - Various Principles of measurement - Expansion, Electrical
Resistance - Thermistor - Thermocouple - Pyrometers - Temperature Indicators.
UNIT – III:
Measurement of Pressure: Units - classification - different principles used. Manometers,
Piston, Bourdon pressure gauges, Bellow - Diaphragm gauges. Low pressure
measurement - Thermal conductivity gauges - ionization pressure gauges, Mcleod
pressure gauge.
Measurement of Level: Direct method - Indirect methods capacitive, ultrasonic,
magnetic, cryogenic fuel level indicators - Bubble level indicators.
Flow Measurement: Rotameter, magnetic, Ultrasonic, Turbine flow mete Hot - wire
anemometer, Laser Doppler Anemometer (LDA).
UNIT – IV:
Measurement of Speed: Mechanical Tachometers Electric tachometers -
Stroboscope, Non- contact type of tachometer. Measurement of Acceleration and
Vibration: Different simple instruments - Principles of Seismic instruments - Vibrometer
an accelerometer using this principle.
Stress Strain Measurements: Various types of stress and strain measurements -
electrical strain gauge - gauge factor - method of usage of resistance strain gauge
for bending compressive and tens) strains - usage for measuring torque, Strain gauge
Rosettes.
UNIT – V:
Measurement of Humidity: Moisture content of gases, all psychrometer, Absorption
psychrometer, Dew point meter Measurement of Force, Torque and Power: Elastic
force meters, lo cells, Torsion meters, Dynamometers.
UNIT – VI:
Elements of Control Systems: Introduction, Importance -Classification - Open and
closed systems Servomechanisms Examples with block diagrams - Temperature,
speed and position control systems.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Measurement Systems: Applications & Design, D. S. Kumar, Anuradha Agencies
2. Instrumentation, Measurement & Analysis, B. C. Nakra & K. K. Choudhary, TMH
REFERENCES:
1. Instrumentation and Control Systems, S. Bhaskar, Anuradha Agencies
2. Experimental Methods for Engineers, Holman, McGraw-Hill Education
3. Mechanical and Industrial Measurements, R. K. Jain, Khanna Publishers
4. Mechanical Measurements, Sirohi and Radhakrishna, New Age
5. Instrumentation & Mechanical Measurements, A. K. Tayal,
Galgotia Publications
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 1.5
(A19PC2ME04) THERMAL ENGINEERING LABORATORY
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Thermodynamics, Thermal Engineering
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To measure the performance parameters and draw its characteristic curve for a
diesel engine
• To measure the performance parameters and draw its characteristic curve for a
petrol engine
• To measure the performance parameters of reciprocating compressor
• To evaluate the COP of refrigeration and Air conditioning system
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: To measure the Performance parameters like Brake Power, Indicated Power,
friction power, specific fuel consumption, volume flow rate of air into the engine
cylinder and specific heat of the exhaust gases and to calculate the various heat
losses in the engine
CO-2: To measure the Performance parameters like Brake Power, Indicated Power,
friction power, specific fuel consumption, volume flow rate of air into the cylinder and
specific heat of the exhaust gases and draw its characteristic curve for a petrol engine
CO-3: To measure the Performance parameters of reciprocating compressor like mass
flow rate of air in the compressor, power consumed by the compressor, volumetric
efficiency and Isothermal efficiency
CO-4: To evaluate the COP of refrigeration system based on the experimental value
as well as the P-H chart and to evaluate COP Air conditioning system based on the
experimental value and by using the Psychrometric chart for air
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
ANY 10 EXPERIMENTS to be conducted from the following:
1. Valve Timing Diagram on Single Cylinder Four Stroke Diesel Engine.
2. Port Timing Diagrams on Single Cylinder Two Stroke Petrol Engine.
3. Performance Test on Single Cylinder Four Stroke Diesel Engine.
4. Heat Balance Test on Single Cylinder Four Stroke Diesel Engine.
5. Measurement of Optimum Cooling Water Temperature on Single Cylinder Four
Stroke Diesel Engine.
6. Performance Test on Four Stroke Twin Cylinder Diesel Engine.
7. Performance Test on Four Stroke Multi Cylinder Petrol Engine.
8. Heat Balance Test on Four Stroke Multi Cylinder Petrol Engine.
9. Measurement of Air/Fuel Ratio and Volumetric Efficiency on Multi Cylinder Four
Stroke Petrol Engine.
10. Evaluation of Engine Friction by Conducting Morse Test on Four Stroke Multi
Cylinder Petrol Engine.
11. Performance Test on Single Cylinder Two Stroke Petrol Engine.
12. Performance Test on Reciprocating Air – Compressor Test Rig.
13. Performance Test on Air Conditioning Test Rig.
14. Performance Test on Refrigeration Test Rig.
15. Dis-assembly / Assembly of I.C Engines.
16. Performance Test on Computerized Diesel Engine.
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 1.5
(A19PC2ME05) MACHINE TOOLS AND MEASUREMENTS LABORATORY
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Machine tools, Metrology and Engineering Materials
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To learn the principles of various machine tools and their accessories
• To learn to grind the cutting tools on tool and cutter grinder
• To know various methods of measurements
• To know the thread profile and surface roughness profile measurement
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Perform operations on different Machine tools
CO-2: Knowledge of tool grinding using tool and cutter grinder
CO-3: Knowledge of different methods of Measurements in different machining
operations
CO-4: Analyze the thread profile and surface roughness profile
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
MACHINE TOOLS:
ANY FIVE EXPERIMENTS from the following.
1. Exercise on Facing, turning, step turning and taper turning on lathe machine
2. Exercise on Grooving, Thread cutting and knurling on lathe machine.
3. Exercise on Drilling, Counter sinking and Tapping operations on drilling machine
4. Exercise on Shaping to prepare plain surfaces
5. Exercise on Slotting to prepare keyway slot (internal/ external)
6. Exercise on Milling to perform plain /gear cutting
7. Exercise on Grinding of Tool angles.
8. Exercise on Cylindrical Surface Grinding
METROLOGY:
ANY FIVE EXPERIMENTS from the following.
1. Measurement of lengths, heights, diameters by vernier calipers micrometers etc.
2. Measurement of bores by internal micrometers and dial bore indicators.
3. Use of gear teeth, Vernier calipers and checking the chordal addendum and
chordal height of spur gear.
4. Use of spirit level in finding the flatness of surface plate.
5. Thread measurement by two wire/ three wire method or tool makers’ microscope.
6. Tool makers microscope and its application
7. Angle and taper measurements by bevel protractor, sine bars, etc.
8. Surface roughness measurement
9. Machine tool alignment test on a lathe.
10. Machine tool alignment test on a milling machine.
11. Surface wear resistances test using electro spark coating device.
REFERENCES:
1. Workshop Technology, W. A. J. Chapman (Parts I, II, and III), Viva Books
2. The Principles of Metallographic Laboratory Practice, George L. Kehl, McGraw Hill
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
0 2 1
(A19PC2ME06) MECHANICS OF SOLIDS LABORATORY
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Engineering Mechanics, Mechanics of Solids
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To analyze the various tests to be conducted on engineering materials
• To the significance of tests in evaluating the corresponding mechanical properties
• To analyze the importance of technical parameters used during tests
• To applying the concepts learned in the real time
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Apply the theoretical concepts by conducting the tests on different materials
CO-2: Evaluate the result of test and comment on the mechanical properties of
materials
CO-3: Decide a material and an appropriate test suitable for given application
CO-4: Analyze the significance of the tests in different fields of engineering
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
1. Direct tension test
2. Bending test on simply supported beam
3. Bending test on cantilever beam
4. Torsion test
5. Brinell hardness test
6. Rockwell hardness test
7. Test on close coiled helical spring
8. Compression test on a cube
9. Charpy Impact test
10. zod Impact test
11. Direct shear test
12. Mechanical advantage of simple screw jack
13. Moment of Inertia of a fly wheel
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Semester L T/P/D C
0 2 0
(A19MN6HS02) ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE
COURSE PRE-REQUISITES: Basic knowledge of environmental issues
COURSE DESCRIPTION:
Environmental science is the study of patterns and processes in the natural world and
their modification by human activity. We as human beings are not an entity, separate
from the environment around us, rather we are a constituent seamlessly integrated
and co-exist with the environment around us. To understand current environmental
problems, we need to consider physical, biological and chemical processes that are
often the basis of those problems. The course requires the students to identify and
analyse natural and human- made environmental problems, evaluate the relative
risks associated with these problems, and examine alternative solutions for resolving or
preventing them. This course will survey some of the many environmental science
topics at an introductory level, ultimately considering the sustainability of human
activities on the planet. We are not an entity so separate from the environment that
we can think of mastering and controlling it rather we must understand that each and
every action of ours reflects on the environment and vice versa.
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To recognize the impacts of human interventions towards environment
• To list out the benefits in creating a sustainable environment
• To sketch out various activities in achieving a cleaner environment
• To emphasize the role of an individual for a better planet to live
COURSE OUTCOMES: After completion of the course, the student should be able to
CO-1: Gain a variety of experiences & acquire a basic knowledge about the
environment & its allied problems
CO-2: Interpret the key components in safe guarding the environment
CO-3: Appraise the quality of environment in order to create a healthy atmosphere
CO-4: Familiarize with the individual responsibilities towards green revolution
MODULE 1: INTRODUCTION
Environmental Science: Introduction, Definition, scope and importance.
MODULE 2: AWARENESS ACTIVITIES
Small group meetings about:
• Water management
• Projects Vs Environment
• Generation of less waste
• Promotion of recycle use
• Impact of Science & Technology on Environment
• Avoiding electronic waste
MODULE 3: SLOGAN AND POSTER MAKING EVENT
• Food waste management
• Rain water harvesting
• Climate change
• Green Power
• Water conservation
• Green at work
• Role of IT in environment and human health
• Sustainable development
MODULE 4: EXPERT LECTURES ON ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE
• Environmental Impact Assessment
• Industrial waste treatment
• Organic farming/Vertical gardens/Hydroponics
MODULE 5: CLEANLINESS DRIVE
• Indoor air pollution
• Vehicular pollution
• VISUAL pollution
• Waste management at home
• Composting
• Plastic recycling
MODULE 6: CASE STUDIES
• HPCL disaster in Vizag
• Oleum gas leak in Delhi
• Mathura Refinery & Taj Mahal
• Conservation of Hussain Sagar lake
• The Cleanliest city of India-Surat
• Green Buildings in India
• KBR park in Hyderabad (Environmental protection Vs Development)
• Fluorosis
• Ecotourism & its impacts
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Environmental Studies for UG Courses, Erach Bharucha, UGC Publications, Delhi,
2004
2. Textbook of Environmental Studies, Deeksha Dave, S. S. Katewa, Cengage Delmar
Learning India Pvt., 2012
REFERENCES:
1. Introduction to Environmental Science, Y. Anjaneyulu, BS Publications, 2004
2. Environmental Studies, Anubha Kaushik & C. P. Kaushik, 4th Edition, New Age
International Publishers
