NSS
NSS Link:https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1q1RPNZdDszY9CDr7QtLiFC_9bqlHge6t?usp=drive_link
The Motto of the National Service Scheme (NSS) is "Not Me But You", which reflects the essence of democratic living and upholds the need for selfless service. NSS Aims at Education through Community Service and Community Service through Education which helps in self-development along with the development of society at large. The NSS unit in VNRVJIET started in the year 1999 in affiliation with JNTUH functioning on the guidelines of the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development and the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports with Principal  Dr.S.V.Rao as NSS chairman and Dr.N.N.Ramesh as NSS Program officer.TeamNSS has become more dynamic under the leadership of Dr.B.NarendraKumar and Dr.K.Ramujee as program officers till 2015 and organized various social impact programs. Since 2016 Team NSS had been vibrant in organizing diverse social activities with Principal Dr. C.D. Naidu as NSS Chairman and Dr.Padmavthi Papolu and Dr.Ashok Bhogi as NSS program officers for Unit-1 and Unit-2 respectively.There are more than 200 active, dedicated, and committed student volunteers from different departments of B.Tech serving in the two NSS units. NSS units observe and organize various programs on all the important International and National days like Yoga Day, World Human Rights Day, National Voters Day, World Environment Day, AIDS, Women's Day, and so on. The NSS units take up various local, state, and central government social programs like Clean & Green 'Haritha Haram'- plantation of trees, Voters Awareness and enrollment, Swatch Bharat campaign, Blood Donation Camps, and so on. NSS organizes various awareness Rallies like Traffic rules, Drug abuse campaigns, road safety, Alcohol, AIDS, Suicides tendencies among youngsters, etc. The NSS units along with UBA volunteers adopted 5 villages in the Narsapur Mandal of Medak district and are organizing special camps, free medical camps, Eye testing camps, village, and door-to-door surveys every year which help to identify the local oblems and find a technical solution for the same. FIST FULL OF RICE is one of the unique events conducted periodically to feed the needy people in the slums, orphanage centers, and old age homes. It is also working for the development of Govt. school children by giving Career guidance and awareness of opportunities in higher education.
The main objectives of the TEAM NSS VNRVJIET are,To
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1q1RPNZdDszY9CDr7QtLiFC_9bqlHge6t?usp=drive_link
