SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/Patents-granted.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous, ISO 9001:2015 & QS I-Gauge Diamond Rated Institute, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A++’ Grade
NBA Accreditation for B.Tech. CE,EEE,ME,ECE,CSE,EIE,IT,AME, M.Tech. STRE, PE, AMS, SWE Programmes
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi, Affiliated to JNTUH, NIRF (2023) Rank band:101-150 in Engineering Category
College with Potential for Excellence by UGC,JNTUH-Recognized Research Centres:CE,EEE,ME,ECE,CSE Vignana Jyothi
Nagar, Pragathi Nagar, Nizampet (S.O.), Hyderabad – 500 090, TS, India.
Telephone No: 040-2304 2758/59/60, Fax: 040-23042761
E-mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
Granted Patents (40)
S.no Patents title
1. A system for analyzing risk associated with cough sounds
2. Stabilizing device
3. Fabrication of eco-friendly organic ferroelectric diiso-propylammonium bromide films
4. A process of preparing activated deoiled cakes of karanja for treatment of textile wastewater
5. Development of megawatt wind turbine for optimal management of smart agricultural farms
6. An intelligent and intuitive signaling system for motor vehicles to minimize road accidents
7. System and method for diagnosis of diseases from medical images
8. Machinelearning based network intelligentization for automatically configurable cellular
communication systems
9. An iot based lpg cylinder warehouse monitoring system along with bookkeeping of refilling of cylinders
10. An apparatus and method for remotely monitoring an aquatic animal and classification thereof
11. Elsm- quantum computing: extremely large databases store into a small memory using quantum
computing
12. An automated thermal scanner with speech recorder and an alert system to avoid the touch thereof
13. A smart and automated bedridden patient monitoring system over the cloud
14. Automated real – time driving behavioralmodeling analysis and reporting in denser traffic using data
mining
15. Collaborative federative learning approach for internet of vehicles traffic prediction
16. Non-contact nanostructure and method of manufacturing the same for fouling free solar desalination
17. Iot based smart electrical power plug
18. System and method to generate time-profiled temporal pattern tree
19. System and method for diagnosis of diseases from medical images
20. Recovery process of metals from printed circuit boards (pcbs) using n. Bacteria.
Page 1 of 8
21. Air-conditioned helmet
22. A dc-to-dc converter configuration by soft switching devices
23. Automatic airlock prevention system and method thereof
24. An integrated computing system and a process to generate the driver safety index for preventing
automobile accidents
25. A wire-less system to reliably control a large network of street lighting systems from a central location
through fm broadcast
26. Fabrication of polymer based nano composite roof sheets
27. Recovery process of metals from printed circuit boards (pcbs) using thiobacillus novellus
28. Recovery process of metals from printed circuit boards (pcbs) using acidithiobacillus ferrooxidans
bacteria
29. Multi-branch resonant converter Based dc power supply for diversified applications
30. Device and method to measure active earth pressure of back-to-back mechanically stabilized earth
walls
31. Steam dish washer
32. Ai based prediction model, method for the compressive strength of geopolymer concrete
33. Salt tolerance monitoring system
34. Method and system for soil classification
35. Eco-friendly solar desalinator
36. Piled embankment reinforcement systems
37. Dic based rapid condition assessment system for structural health monitoring using qr code based
speckle pattern
38. Method and circuit for operating oewim using dual inverter fed with modulated carrier based dpwm
39. System for mitigating circulating current in type modular multilevel converter (mmc)
40. An apparatus for making a flat edible food
Page 2 of 8
VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous, ISO 9001:2015 & QS I-Gauge Diamond Rated Institute, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A++’ Grade
NBA Accreditation for B.Tech. CE,EEE,ME,ECE,CSE,EIE,IT,AME, M.Tech. STRE, PE, AMS, SWE Programmes
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi, Affiliated to JNTUH, NIRF (2023) Rank band:101-150 in Engineering Category
College with Potential for Excellence by UGC,JNTUH-Recognized Research Centres:CE,EEE,ME,ECE,CSE Vignana Jyothi
Nagar, Pragathi Nagar, Nizampet (S.O.), Hyderabad – 500 090, TS, India.
Telephone No: 040-2304 2758/59/60, Fax: 040-23042761
E-mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
Patents at various stages
S.no. Patents title
1 Method for histopathological image analysis using vagrant for early detection of cancer
2 Semantic knowledge base intelligent system for problem solving skills enhancement
3 Multi-layered gravity filter for treatment of rainfall muddy water
4 Knowledge-based method to recommend suitable crops for soils with identified nutrient deficiencies
5 Reactive power design for delta connected capacitor bank to self-excited asynchronous generator
6 Efficient prime bit Vedic multiplier for double precision floating point numbers
7 Knowledge-based intelligent system for design thinking
8 Heat absorber for solar desalination
9 Floating absorber for solar still
10 Real-time health and environment monitoring system for underground coal mining workers
11 Patient obligation perceiving system using eye gestures
12 Child safety lock for scooter throttle
13 Quick set non-cement brick
14 A technique for edge identification in individual silicon crystal semiconductors using adaptive inpainting
15 Implementation of machine learning and data science in the process of making financial decision
16 An investigation on the use of artificial intelligence for performance enhancement of phase change material for a smart
control solar application
17 Nano-porous structure fabricated through anodization and copper electroplating for enhanced solar desalination
18 System and model for intelligent content rating estimation using machine learning
19 Unlocking the secrets of micro plastic emissions from sewage plants with methodological analysis
20 Gps and encryption based multi-check authentication process for preventing fraud transaction
21 Fluid dynamic melted aluminum refinement in a designed furnace through a mathematical model
22 Method for prediction of embankment failure on soft fossils
23 Method for prediction of angina pectoris based on the user input or dataset
Page 3 of 8
24 coupled inductor-based dc-dc boost converter
25 Solar powered desalination system
26 Intrusion detection and analysis system in local networks using machine learning.
27 Ai and iot based miniature circuit breaker
28 Healthcare support management system using the iot-based blockchain platform.
29 Multi-tasking horticulture vehicle
30 Ferroelectric bridge junction device with computational modelling and synaptic features
31 Drill cabin system for safe driving
32 Ai and nlp system for automatic generation of multilingual minutes of the meeting
33 A phase change dynamics-based system for additive manufacturing and development of alloys
34 Solar desalination system using ceo2-mwcnt hybrid nanofluid
35 Security system for women safety and real-time monitoring
36 Ai based device to prevent early cervical spondylosis among computer users
37 Ocr and deep learning-based plagiarism detection device for Telugu language
38 Crop recommendation and disease prediction system
39 A design for feature selection and optimized hyperparameter tuning for machine learning model
40 Improved distillate using cerium oxide nanofluid in solar-powered desalination
41 Artificial intelligence-based analysis of smart agriculture system using embedded iot
42 Design automation of cmos analog circuits using sca-mgwo algorithm
43 Deep learning-based agriculture robot
44 A restorative remedial solution for leaf disease detection using convolutional neural networks
45 Wi-fi-enabled anti-theft system with biometric authentication in fuel-filling stations
46 Iot-based ro water purifier with auto tds control
47 Detecting schizophrenia using deep learning techniques (lstm and cnn from social media)
48 Automated online proctoring system to monitor anomalous student behavior using attentive-net and proctor-net
49 Artificial intelligence-based approach to predict the statistical impact of influencers for expanding client base through
influencer marketing tactics
50 A system and method for secured architecture with effective data sharing in cloud based big data storage environment
51 Design automation of cmos analog circuits using sca-mgwo algorithm
52 Using corporate organization analyzing the usefulness of business reengineering as a strategic tool for the survival
53 Molecular hybrids of pyrazolo[3,4-b] pyridine and triazole having anti-bacterial activity
Page 4 of 8
54 Fuzzy neural optimised fuzzy logic controller based dynamic voltage restorer for power quality improvement with non-
linear
55 Use of magnetic spinel ferrite nanoparticles (sfnps) in green chemistry to produce complex oxides
56 Chunk based prediction
57 Iot based heart disease prediction using deep neural network
58 Artificial intelligence-based technique to analyze the genome sequence of cancer patients and predict their life expectancy
based on cell biology
59 A machine learning based approach to plot graphs based on statistical data.
Analysis of patients suffering from cancer due to alcohol consumption
60 A machine learning approach for iot device identification based on network traffic analysis and method thereof
61 Attributional thoughts of English teaching master’s pupils on the reading performance
62 A method for division of lithium battery microstructure strengthened with artificial electrodes by deep learning
63 System and method of intelligent coffee vending machine
64 An approach for solving differential equations and variational problems based on python Elvet nn system
65 Iot based smart material for ev segment using wire electrical discharge machining thereof
66 Method and implementation for mitigating voltage sag and swell in distributed system with under voltage/ over voltage
relay based compensators
67 A novel machine learning tool and approach / method for Telugu dependency parsing using combinatory categorical
grammar
68 Gps and encryption based multi-check authentication process for preventing fraud transaction
69 A novel facts (flexible alternating current transmission systems) device “gate turn off thyristor controlled static shunt
compensator” (gcssc) to enhance power system stability and power transfer capability of both transmission and distribution
systems
70 Development of bismuth borate glasses co-doped with small concentrations of manganese oxide and zirconium oxide
nanoparticles suitable for luminescent materials
71 Optical parameters of gallium nitride doped ferrite polypyrrole nanocomposites
72 Deep learning enabled multi-class plant disease detection model based on computer vision
73 A system based on big data analytics for hr management and staffing projects of an organization
74 Tpm- crowdfunding: trusted crowdfunding platform using a smart contract and ai- based management system
75 An artificial intelligence (ai) and internet of things (iot) based integrated approach for covid-19 prevention
76 Submerged nanoporous micro hotspot structure for solar desalination and method of preparation
77 Intelligent caregiver wireless monitor and motion sensor for safe home system applicable for elderly people
78 A series capacitive compensation technique with design based iterative algorithm for mitigation of ferranti effect in ehv and
uhv power transmission systems
79 Mathematical modeling and internet of things-based patient health monitoring system
80 An algorithm based on deep learning for the detection of covid-19 infections
81 Prediction of diseases in vegetables using machine learning algorithm
82 Tuberculosis detection using artificial intelligence (ai)
83 Iot, machine learning based intelligent intrusion detection systems for detecting cyber threats
Page 5 of 8
84 The block chain technology to protect data access using a smart contract mechanism
85 Method for the synthesis of mixed metal nanoscale composites using low-cost precursors
86 User friendly new trend material for solar cell applications with low cost
87 Advanced non-centric pwm (pulse width modulated) method to eliminate common mode voltage in dual inverter fed open-
end induction motor drives
88 Method for providing a multi directional theft monitoring system for tracking vehicles and alerting owners in real-time
89 Deep learning based covid finding using densenet in computerized tomography (ct) scan.
90 Design and fabrication of tread mill bicycle
91 Diagnosis and management of covid-19 using artificial intelligence.
92 Method and system for predicting breast cancer disease using data mining and deep learning techniques
93 Nanorobotics for medical applications using nems and mems
94 Two-temperature magneto-thermoelasticity for heat conductivity
95 Intelligent wearable brain machine interface to assist paralyzed people
96 Design and modelling of diesel particulate filter to reduce the emissions from ci engine
97 Device for connecting computers
98 Gps live vehicle tracking and speed control
99 An air gesture-based system for communicating between multiple iot device
100 A proficient method for categorical data clustering
101 Iml- traffic prediction: intelligent traffic prediction using machine learning.
102 Abie-voting system: aadhaar and blockchain intelligent electronic voting system
103 Cloud sharing system: cloud computing information sharing system in real time
104 Fake news analysis using machine learning and updateable neural analysis
105 Sheltered driving system for automotive vehicles for streamlined operation on roads with adherence to extant rules and
regulations
106 Hotspot prediction system for covid-19 pandemic
107 Iuml-stock prices predictor: intelligent stock prices predictor using machine learning.
108 Icdn- object detection system: intelligent object detection system with image classification and deep neural networks.
109 Asp: crime site analysis: automatic method and process of performing crime site analysis and management system.
110 Transparent and user-friendly billing system, method, and process towards smart governance
111 Aws-cloud data performance increased using machine programming.
112 A novel security framework integrated with lms for software security
113 Self - excited synchronous generator (sesg) without d.c excitation
Page 6 of 8
114 Motorized ankle foot driven customized prosthetic leg with exoskeleton
115 Design &development of an intelligent system to analyze the impact of covid-19 on respiratory system using machine
learning
116 Method for characterization of a subject’s attention and mediation using brain computer interface for real time healthcare
monitoring
117 Virtual mom responsive baby monitoring toy
118 An arrangement to enhance the tissue engineering and other lively processes to enhance life
119 Evaluation of thrust force and torque in drilling of natural fiber particle reinforced polymer.
120 Deep learning-based detection of abnormality scenarios for computer vision based har systems
121 Design and analysis of rf mems switch configured csrr embedded bandstop
filter for ku band applications
122 Friction stirs spot weldments using different tools materials by taper
thread profile en 31 and en 19 on dissimilar metals
123 Recovery process of metals from printed circuit boards (pcbs) using acidiphilum acid ophilum bacteria
124 Geo composite liner systems
125 Design for earthquake load modelling using critical excitation method
126 Brain computer interface (bci) based system and method for characterizing behavior state of a subject
127 A system and method of planting and breeding-based internet of things with cloud service and service flow method in
agriculture
128 Vigya: a novel integral system for precision agriculture
129 Computer cache memory performance enhance using neural networks and machine learning
130 Electric power is generated by using the thermal energy of an exhaust gas in a crematory
131 Critical patients’ monitoring device: critical patients ‘monitoring using machine learning feature selection technique
132 Cloud attenuation system and method to provide cloud attenuation statistics and atmospheric absorption coefficient
133 Dart (depression and related tracker): identification system to find and prevent depression tendencies of women
134 Recovery process of metals from printed circuit boards (pcbs) using acidithiobacillusthiooxidans bacteria.
135 Development of smart walking stick for visually impaired people
136 Ispsd-system: internal smart pollution control display system.
137 Horizontal axis,camguided,telescopicblade,yaw controlled wind mill
138 P-button: panic button provides information through light,radio signal and other required signal
139 Cloud parking management system and vehicle anti-theft method
140 An arrangement to increase the level of liquids
141 An apparatus for making a flat edible food
142 Fuel indicator and global fuel pump detection system
143 A novel pixel based method for satellite image classification
Page 7 of 8
144 Iot-traffic system: iot based intelligent traffic, transport management system
145 Instrumented methods for smart operations
146 System and method for generating magnetic power and converting into an alternative energy.
147 A passive filter configuration to reduce the produced by non-linear loads
Page 8 of 8
