SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/r11/R11AE.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE
AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
Automobile Engineering
B.TECH. FOUR YEAR DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2011-2012)
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
(AFFILIATED TO JNTUH)
An Autonomous Institute under JNTUH
Bachupally, Nizampet (S.O),
Hyderabad – 500090
Andhra Pradesh, India
1
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute under JNTUH
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS 2011 FOR B.TECH. DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for Students admitted from the academic year 2011-2012)
1. Courses of study
The following courses of study are offered at present for specialization for the B. Tech.
Course:
Branch Code Branch
01 Civil Engineering.
02 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
03 Mechanical Engineering
04 Electronics and Communication Engineering
05 Computer Science and Engineering.
10 Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
12 Information Technology
24 Automobile Engineering
1.1 Eligibility Criteria for Admission
The eligibility criteria for admission into engineering programmes shall be as
mentioned below:
The candidate shall be an Indian National.
The candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st December
of the academic year for which the admissions are being conducted.
2
The Candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or
equivalent as on the date of admission.
Seats in each programme in the Institution are classified into Category A and
Category B as per the G.Os.
1.1.1 Category – A Seats
These seats will be filled through counseling as per the rank at the Common
Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by the State Government and State
Government GOs as per other admission criteria laid down in the G.Os.
1.1.2 Category - B Seats
These seats will be filled by the institute as per the G.Os Issued by State
Government from time to time.
1.1.3 Category: Lateral Entry
The candidate shall be admitted into the Third Semester, based on the rank
secured by the candidate at Engineering Common Entrance Test (ECET(FDH))
by the Convener, ECET.
2. Distribution and Weightage of Marks
i. The performance of a student in each Semester shall be evaluated subject –wise
with a maximum of 100 marks for theory and 75 marks for practical subjects.
In addition, an Industry oriented mini-project, Seminar, Comprehensive viva-voce,
and Project Work shall be evaluated for 50, 50, 50 and 200 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects the distribution shall be 30 marks for Internal Evaluation
and 70 marks for the End-Examination.
For theory subjects, Two mid examinations will be conducted in each Semester
as per the academic calendar. Each mid examination is evaluated for 25 marks.
First mid examination should be conducted for 1 – 2 ½ Units of syllabus and the
second mid examination shall be conducted for 2 ½ - 5 Units of syllabus. The mid
descriptive type exam paper consists of Section-A and Section-B.
Section-A [compulsory] consists of 5 short answer questions and each carries
one mark.
Section-B consists of 5 questions out of which 4 are to be answered and each
question carries 5 marks. The time duration of each mid examination is 90
minutes.
3
Two assignments are to be given to students covering the syllabus of first Mid
and second Mid examinations and are evaluated for 5 marks each. .
The first assignment shall be submitted before first mid examinations and
second Assignment should be submitted before second mid examination.
At the end of the Semester Internal Marks Maximum 30 for the respective
subjects are allotted as follows:
(a) 25 marks for the better of the two mid term examinations
(b) 5 marks is the average of the two assignment marks
iii. For practical subjects there shall be a continuous evaluation during the Semester
for 25 internal marks and 50 marks for end examination. Out of the 25 marks
for internal, day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be evaluated for 10
marks, and 10 marks for internal examination (two internal practical examinations
will be conducted and the better of the two examinations will be taken into
account) and 5 marks for laboratory record.
NOTE: A student who is absent for any assignment/Mid term examination for any
reason what so ever shall be deemed to have secured ‘zero’ marks in the
test/examination and no makeup test/examination shall be conducted.
iv For the subjects having design and / or drawing, (such as Engineering Graphics,
Engineering Drawing, Machine Drawing, Production Drawing Practice, and
Estimation etc., the distribution shall be 30 marks for internal evaluation (15
marks for day-to-day work and 15 marks for internal tests (the better of the
two examinations will be taken into account) and 70 marks for end
examination. There shall be two internal tests in a Semester.
iv. There shall be an industry-oriented mini-Project, in collaboration with an
industry of their specialization, to be taken up during the vacation after III year II
Semester examination. The mini project shall be evaluated during the IV year
I Semester. The industry oriented mini project shall be submitted in report form
and should be presented before a committee, which shall be evaluated for 50
marks. The committee consists of Head of the Department, the supervisor of mini
project and a senior faculty member of the department. There shall be no
internal assessment for industry oriented mini project.
vi. There shall be a Seminar presentation in IV year II Semester. For the Seminar,
the student shall collect the information on a specialized topic other than the
project topic and prepare a technical report, showing his understanding of the
topic, and submit to the department, which shall be evaluated by a Departmental
4
committee consisting of the Head of the department, Seminar supervisor and a
senior faculty member. The Seminar report shall be evaluated for 50 marks.
There shall be no external examination for Seminar.
vii. There shall be a Comprehensive Viva-Voce in IV year II Semester. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce will be conducted by a Committee consisting of the
Head of the Department and three Senior Faculty members of the Department.
The Comprehensive Viva-Voce is aimed to assess the student’s understanding in
various subjects studied during the B.Tech. course of study. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce is evaluated for 50 marks by the Committee. There
will be no internal assessment for the Comprehensive viva-voce.
viii. The Project work shall be started by the student in the beginning of the IV year I
Semester. Out of a total of 200 marks for the project work, 60 marks shall be for
Internal Evaluation and 140 marks for the Semester end Examination. The
Semester end Examination (viva-voce) shall be conducted by a committee
comprising of an external examiner, Head of the Department and the project
supervisor. The evaluation of project work shall be conducted at the end of the
IV year II Semester. The Internal Evaluation shall be on the basis of three
Seminars conducted during the IV year II Semester for 30 marks by the
committee consisting of Head of the Department, project supervisor and
senior faculty member of the Department and for 30 marks by the
supervisor of the project.
3. Semester end Examination
(a) Theory Courses
Each course is evaluated for 70 marks. Examination is of 3 hours duration.
Question paper contains two sections [Section-A and Section-B]
Section-A: Carries 30 marks [Five questions of one mark each, five questions of
two marks each and another five questions of three marks each] which is
compulsory.
Section-B: carries 40 marks consisting of six essay type questions out of which
four questions are to be answered, each carrying 10 marks.
Drawing related subjects, question paper contains 8 questions (atleast one
question from each unit), out of which the candidate has to answer any 5
questions, each carrying 14 marks.
(b) Practical Courses
Each lab course is evaluated for 50 marks. The examination shall be conducted
by the laboratory teacher and another senior teacher concerned with the subject
5
of the same/other department/Industry. The external examiner may be
appointed by the Chief Superintendent in consultation with HOD as and when
required.
(c ) Supplementary Examinations
Supplementary examinations will be conducted along with regular Semester end
examinations. (During even Semester regular examinations, supplementary
examinations of odd Semester and during odd Semester regular examinations,
supplementary examinations of even Semester will be conducted).
4. Attendance Requirements
i. A student shall be eligible to appear for the Semester end examinations if he acquires
a minimum of 75% of attendance in aggregate of all the subjects for Semester /
year.
ii. Condonation of shortage of attendance in aggregate up to 10% (65% and above
and below 75%) in a Semester may be granted by Institute Academic Committee.
iii. A student will not be permitted to write the end examination and not promoted to the
next Semester unless he satisfies the attendance requirement of the present
Semester, as applicable. He may seek re-admission for that Semester when offered
next.
iv. Shortage of Attendance below 65% in aggregate shall in NO case be condoned.
v. Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned in any Semester are not
eligible to take their end examination of that Semester.
vi. A stipulated fee shall be payable towards condonation of shortage of attendance.
5. Minimum Academic Requirements
The following academic requirements have to be satisfied in addition to the
attendance requirements mentioned in item No.4.
i. A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic requirements
and earned the credits allotted to each theory or practical design or drawing subject
or project, if he secures not less than 35% (25 out of 70 marks) of marks in the
end examination and a minimum of 40% of marks in the sum total of the
internal evaluation and end examination taken together.
ii. A student shall be promoted from II to III year only if he fulfils the academic
requirement of 37 credits from Two regular and one supplementary
6
examinations of I year I Semester and One Regular and One Supplementary
exam of I year II Semester, and one regular examination of II year I Semester
irrespective of whether the candidate takes the examination or not.
iii. A student shall be promoted from III year to IV year only if he fulfils the academic
requirements of total 62 credits from the following examinations, whether the
candidate takes the examinations or not.
 Three regular and Two supplementary examinations of I B Tech I Semester.
 Two regular and two Supplementary examinations for I B Tech II Semester
 Two regular and one supplementary examinations up to the end of II year I
Semester.
 One regular and one supplementary examinations of II year II Semester.
 One regular examination of III year I Semester.
iv. A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 200
credits and earn the 200 credits. Marks obtained in all 200 credits shall be
considered for the calculation of percentage of marks.
v. Students who fail to earn 200 credits as indicated in the course structure within
eight academic years from the year of their admission shall forfeit their seat in
B.Tech. course and their admission shall get stands cancelled.
6. Course pattern
i. The entire course of study is of four academic years. All the I, II, III and IV years
are of Semester pattern .
ii. A student eligible to appear for the end examination in a subject, but absent or
has failed in the end examination may reappear for that subject at the
supplementary examination whenever conducted.
iii. When a student is detained due to shortage of attendance in any Semester, he
may be re-admitted into that Semester when it is offered next, with the academic
regulations of the batch into which he gets readmitted.
iv. When a student is detained due to lack of credits in any year, he may be eligible
to be promoted or for promotion into the next year after fulfillment of the academic
requirements, with the academic regulations of the batch into which he gets
admitted
7. Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
A student will be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. Degree if he/she
fulfils the following academic regulations:
7
I. Pursued a course of study for not less than four academic years and not more
than eight academic years.
ii. Registered for 200 credits and secured 200 credits.
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award of the
degree within eight academic years from the year of their admission, shall forfeit their
seat in B.Tech. Course.
Iii After a student has satisfied the requirements prescribed for the completion of
the program and is eligible for the award of B. Tech. Degree he shall be placed in
one of the following four classes:
Class Awarded % of marks to be secured
First Class with Distinction 70% and above
First Class Below 70% but not less than 60%
From the aggregate
Second Class Below 60% but not less than 50% marks secured for
the 200 Credits.
Pass Class Below 50% but not less than 40%
Fail Below 40%
(The marks in internal evaluation and end examination shall be shown separately in the
marks memorandum).
8. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to College, or if any case of indiscipline is
pending against him, the result of the candidate may be withheld and he will not
be allowed to go into the next higher Semester. The award or issue of the
Degree may also be withheld in such cases.
9. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or
any other academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and
when they become eligible. They have to take up Equivalent subjects, as
substitute subject in place of repetition of subjects as decided by the Institute
Academic Committee.
8
10. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each Semester shall be 90 clear instruction
days.
11. There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission process.
12. The decision of the Institute Academic Committee will be final in respect of
equivalent subjects for those students who are transferred from other
colleges. The procedure for permitting students to transfer from other
colleges will be decided by the principal / Institute Academic Committee
keeping the Government Rules concerned in view.
13. General
i. Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include “she”, “her”,
“hers”.
ii. The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
iii. In the case of any doubt or ambiguity in the interpretation of the above rules, the
decision of the Principal is final.
iv. In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arises in the above rules and
regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
v. The College may change or amend any or all of the academic regulations or syllabi
at any time and the changes or amendments made shall be applicable to all the
students concerned with effect from the dates notified by the College.
14. Academic Regulations for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2012-2013)
(i) A student shall register for all 150 credits and earn all the 150 credits. Marks
obtained in all 150 credits shall be considered for the calculation of the class.
(ii) A student who fails to earn 150 credits as indicated in the course structure
within six academic years from the year of their admission shall forfeit their
seat in B.Tech. programme and their admission stands cancelled.
(iii) The same attendance regulations are adopted as that of B.Tech. Four year
degree course.
(iv) A student shall be promoted from third year to fourth year only on fulfilling
the academic requirements of securing 37 credits from the following
examinations.
a. Two regular and one supplementary examination of II year I Semester
b. One regular and one supplementary examination of II year II Semester
9
c. One regular examination of III year I Semester.
Irrespective of whether the candidate appears the Semester-End examination or not as
per the normal course of study and in case of getting detained for want of credits the
student may make up the credits through supplementary exams of the above exams
before the date of commencement of class work for IV year I Semester.
(v) Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
After a student has satisfied the requirements prescribed for the completion of the
program and is eligible for the award of B. Tech. Degree he shall be placed in one
of the following four classes:
Class Awarded % of marks to be secured
First Class with Distinction 70% and above
First Class Below 70% but not less than 60%
From the aggregate
Second Class Below 60% but not less than 50% marks secured for
the 150 Credits.
Pass Class Below 50% but not less than 40%
(i.e., II year to IV
Fail Below 40% year)
(The marks in internal evaluation and end examination shall be shown separately in the
marks memorandum)
All other regulations as applicable to B.Tech. four year degree course will hold good for
B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme).
10
Programme Educational Objectives
The Under-graduate Programme in Automobile Engineering will be able to
1. Provide a strong foundation in mathematical, scientific and engineering
fundamentals that enable the students to formulate, analyze and solve
engineering problems and to prepare them for graduate studies
2. Apply knowledge and concepts of automotive technology to synthesize data and
solve multi-disciplinary engineering problems
3. Continue to work as part of teams for successful career in automotive and
ancillary industry that meet the needs of Indian and multinational companies
4. Undertake research and development projects with multi-disciplinary approach
which are cost effective and efficient so as to resolve automotive engineering
issues of social relevance
5. Demonstrate their professional, ethical and social responsibilities for a successful
professional career and contribute their part for addressing various global issues
Program Outcomes
The Student of Automobile Engineering will be able to
a) Apply acquired knowledge from undergraduate engineering and other disciplines
to identify, formulate and present solutions to technical problems related to
various areas of Automobile Engineering.
b) Learn advanced technologies and analyze complex problems in the fields of
Automobile Engineering.
c) Design and implementation of Automotive systems using Auto
CAD/CREO/ANSYS/CATIA
d) Addressing specific problems in the field of automotive system design in the form
of mini projects, analysis, and interpretation of data and synthesis of information
to provide valid conclusions.
e) Use the techniques, skills, latest Modelling / Design / Analysis / Simulation tools,
software and equipment necessary to evaluate and analyze the systems in
automotive design environments.
f) Understand and commit to professional ethics, social responsibilities and norms
of engineering practice.
g) Develop confidence for self-education and imbibe professional values for lifelong
learning.
h) Demonstrate effective oral and written communication skills in accordance with
technical standards.
i) Become knowledgeable about contemporary developments.
j) Ability to correct the mistakes effectively and learn from them to become good
leaders.
k) Understand the scenario of global business.
11
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11MTH1101 Mathematics I 3 1 3
R11PHY1101 Engineering Physics I 3 0 3
R11CHE1102 Chemistry of Engineering Materials 3 0 3
R11CSE1101 Computer Programming 3 0 3
R11MED1101 Engineering Mechanics I 4 1 4
R11EEE1130 Elements of Engineering 3 0 3
R11MED1102 Engineering Graphics I 2 3 2
R11EPC1201 Engg. Physics and Chemistry Lab 0 3 2
R11CSE1201 Computer Programming Lab 0 3 2
Total 21 11 25
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11MTH1102 Mathematics II 3 1 3
R11PHY1102 Engineering Physics II 3 0 3
R11CHE1101 Engineering Chemistry 3 0 3
R11HAS1101 English 3 0 3
R11CSE1102 Data Structures 3 0 3
R11MED1103 Engineering Mechanics II 4 1 4
R11MED1104 Engineering Graphics II 2 3 2
R11MED1201 Engineering Workshop 0 3 2
English Language and Communication
R11HAS1203 0 3 2
Skills Lab
Total 21 11 25
12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11MTH1103 Mathematics III 3 1 3
R11MED1106 Mechanics of Solids I 4 1 4
R11MED1107 Thermodynamics 4 1 4
R11MED1108 Metallurgy and Material Science 3 0 3
R11MED1112 Fluid Mechanics and Turbomachinery 3 1 3
R11MED1109 Machine Drawing 0 6 4
R11MED1203 Metallurgy and Mechanics of Solids Lab 0 3 2
R11MED1205 Fluid Mechanics and Turbomachinery Lab 0 3 2
Total 17 16 25
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11MED1110 Mechanics of Solids II 4 1 4
R11MED1111 Kinematics of Machinery 4 1 4
R11AME1101 Automotive Engines 3 1 3
R11MED1113 Applied Thermodynamics 4 1 4
R11MED1114 Production Technology 3 0 3
R11EIE1130 Fundamentals of Electrical and Electronics
3 0 3
Engineering
R11AME1201 Automotive Engines Lab I 0 3 2
R11MED1210 Production Technology Lab. 0 3 2
Total 21 10 25
13
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
III YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11MED1115 Dynamics of Machinery 4 1 4
R11MED1116 Mechanical Engineering Design I 4 1 4
R11MTH1104 Numerical Analysis and Linear
3 1 3
Programming
R11MED1117 Machine Tools 3 0 3
R11MED1118 Metrology and Instrumentation 3 0 3
R11CED1109 Environmental studies 3 0 3
R11MED1211 Machine Tools Lab 0 3 2
R11MED1212 Metrology and Instrumentation
0 5 3
Lab
Total 20 11 25
III YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11MED1120 Mechanical Engineering
4 1 4
Design II
R11AME1102 Structural Analysis 4 1 4
R11AME1103 Automotive Chassis and
3 1 3
Suspension
R11MED1122 Heat and Mass Transfer 3 1 3
R11HAS1102 Business Economics and
4 0 4
Financial Analysis
R11MED1157 CAD/ CAM 3 0 3
R11AME1202 Automotive Engines Lab II 0 3 2
R11MED1213 Heat and Mass Transfer Lab
and Advanced English
0 3 2
Language Communication
Skills Laboratory
Total 19 10 25
14
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
IV YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11HAS1103 Management Science 4 0 4
Elective I
R11AME1104 Alternative Fuels for Automobiles
R11AME1105 Vehicle Dynamics
4 0 4
R11MED1124 Automation in Manufacturing
R11MED1126 Advanced Mechanism Design
Elective II
R11MED1128 Theory of Elasticity and Plasticity
R11MED1129 Robotics
4 0 4
Automotive Electrical and
R11EEE1134
Autotronics
R11MED1132 Advanced Machine Design
R11AME1106 Elective III
Vehicle Transport Management
R11MED1133 Mechatronics 4 0 4
R11MED1134 Advanced Mechanics of Solids
R11MED1136 Tribology
Elective IV
R11MED1139 Unconventional Machining
Processes
Vehicle Body Engineering and 3 0 3
R11AME1107
Safety
Plant layout and Material
R11MED1140
Handling
R11MED1141 Computational Fluid Dynamics
R11AME1203 Automobile Engineering Lab 0 3 2
R11MED1208 CAD/ CAM Lab. 0 3 2
R11AME1301 Industry Oriented Mini Project 0 8 2
Total 19 14 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
15
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
IV YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11MED1121 Finite Element Method 3 1 3
Elective V
R11AME1108 Auto Air Conditioning
R11MED1147 Production Planning and Control
3 0 3
R11MED1149 Operations Research
Maintenance and Safety
R11MED1158
Engineering
Elective VI
R11AME1109 Automotive Pollution and Control
R11MED1153 Principles of Entrepreneurship
3 0 3
R11MED1155 Statistical Quality Control and
TQM
R11MED1156 Fracture Mechanics
R11AME1302 Seminar 0 3 2
R11AME1303 Comprehensive Viva 0 0 2
R11AME1304 Major Project 6 12 12
Total 15 15 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
16
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE I sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MTH1101) MATHEMATICS I
(Advanced Calculus)
UNIT I
Elementary analysis
Sequences and series - convergence and divergence, ratio test, comparison test, integral
test, Cauchy’s root test, Raabe’s test (statements only for the tests), and absolute and
conditional convergence.
Mean value theorems (statements only) - Rolle’s theorem, Lagrange’s theorem, Cauchy’s
theorem, and generalized mean value theorem (Taylor’s Theorem).
UNIT II
Functions of several variables
Partial differentiation; Functional dependence; Jacobian; Maxima and Minima of functions of
two variables with constraints and without constraints.
Radius of curvature; Centre and circle of curvature – evolutes and envelopes.
UNIT III
Improper integrals and special functions
Improper Integrals; Beta, Gamma, and Error functions - Properties and simple applications.
UNIT IV
Curve tracing, applications of integration and multiple integrals
Curve tracing – Cartesian, polar, and parametric curves; Applications of integration to
lengths, volumes and surface areas in cartesian and polar coordinates.
Multiple integrals - double and triple integrals, change of variables, and change of order of
integration.
UNIT V
Vector calculus
Introduction to vector and scalar functions; Gradient, curl, divergence, and their related
properties of sums and products; Laplacian and second order operators; Vector integration -
line integral, work done, potential function; Area, surface, and volume integrals; Statements
of Vector integral theorems and their verification (without proofs) - Green’s theorem, Stoke’s
theorem, and Gauss divergence theorem.
TEXT BOOK
Calculus and Analytic Geometry by Thomas and Finney, 9th edition; Publisher: Pearson
Education.
17
REFERENCE
1. Elementary Analysis: The Theory of Calculus by Kenneth Ross; Publisher: Springer
2. Principles of Mathematical Analysis by Walter Rudin (1976); 3rd edition; Publisher:
Paperback.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition; Publisher: John
Wiley.
4. Calculus by Tom M. Apostol; Volume1 and Volume 2 (2003); 2nd edition; Publisher:
John Wiley
5. Schaum’s Outline of Vector Analysis by Murray R. Spiegel (2011); 2nd edition;
Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
18
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE I sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11PHY1101) ENGINEERING PHYSICS I
UNIT I
Interference and diffraction
Superposition principle; Resultant amplitude; Coherence - methods to obtain coherent
sources; Interference; Young’s double slit experiment; Interference in thin films by reflection;
Newton’s rings experiment; Distinction between Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction;
Diffraction at single slit - Qualitative and Quantitative (Phasors approach); Diffraction at
double slit - Circular aperture and multiple slits – grating (Qualitative Approach); Resolution
of spectral lines; Rayleigh criterion; Resolving power of grating and telescope.
UNIT II
Polarization
Polarization phenomenon; Brewster’s Law and Malus’ law; Examples; Types of polarization;
Double refraction; Nicol prism; Quarter and half wave plates.
Lasers
Characteristics of lasers – spontaneous and stimulated emission of radiation, meta stable
state, population inversion, and lasing action; Einstein’s coefficients and relation between
them; Ruby laser; Helium-Neon laser; Carbon dioxide laser; Semiconductor Laser;
Applications of lasers.
UNIT III
Fiber optics
Principle of optical fiber; Acceptance angle and acceptance cone; Numerical aperture;
Types of fibers and refractive index profiles; Qualitative analysis of attenuation in optical
fibers; Application of optical fibers.
Crystal structures
Space lattice; Unit cell; Lattice parameter; Crystal systems; Bravais lattices; Atomic radius;
Co-ordination number; Structures and packing fractions of simple cubic – body centered
cubic – face centered cubic crystals; Hexagonal closed packed crystals; Structures of
diamond, NaCl.
UNIT IV
Directions, planes, and XRD
Miller Indices for Crystal planes and directions; Inter planar spacing of orthogonal crystal
systems; Diffraction of X-rays by crystal planes and Bragg’s law; Laue method; Powder
method; Applications of X-ray diffraction.
Bonding in solids
Force and energy between two approaching atoms; Primary and secondary bonds; Binding
energy and cohesive energy; Madelung constant; Cohesive energy and Madelung constant
for NaCl crystal.
19
Defects in solids
Imperfections in crystals; Point defects (vacancies, interstitial and impurities); Schottky and
Frenkel defects (with mathematical treatment); Line imperfections; Edge and screw
dislocation; Burger vector; Surface defects and volume defects (qualitative treatment).
UNIT V
Surface physics
Surface electronic structure (work function - thermionic emission, surface states, and
tangential surface transport); Electron microscope; Scanning tunneling microscope.
Science and technology of nanomaterials
Origin of nanotechnology – Basic principles of Nanoscience and Technology; Surface to
volume ratio; Quantum confinement; Fabrication of nanomaterials - bottom up fabrication
(sol-gel and combustion methods), top down fabrication (CVD and PVD methods);
Characterization (XRD and TEM); Applications of nanotechnology.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel; Publisher: John Wiley
2. Physics, Vol.2, by Halliday, Resnick and Krane; Publisher: John Wiley
3. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal; Publisher: IK International Publishing House.
4. Optics by A. Ghatak; Publisher: Tata Mc Graw Hill
REFERENCE
1. Engineering Physics by R.K.Gaur and S.L.Gupta; Publisher: Dhanpat Rai.
2. Solid State Physics by S.O.Pillai; Publisher: New Age International.
3. Engineering Physics by M Chandra Shekar and P. Appala Naidu; Publisher: VGS Book
links.
4. Solid State Physics by A.J.Dekker; Publisher: Macmillan Publishers.
5. Solid State Physics by N.W.Ashcroft and N.David Merwin; Publisher: Thomson
Learning.
6. Engineering Physics by Jain, Sanjay D. and Sahasrabudhe, Girish G.; Publisher:
Universities Press.
7. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
8. Optical Fiber Communications by G. Keiser; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
9. Fundamentals of Molecular Spectroscopy by Banwell; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
20
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE I sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11CHE1102) CHEMISTRY OF ENGINEERING MATERIALS
UNIT I
Energy sources
Fuels - classification (solid, liquid, gaseous), calorific value of fuel (HCV, LCV),
determination of calorific value by bomb calorimeter; Solid fuels – coal – analysis –
proximate and ultimate analysis and their significance; Liquid fuels – petroleum, refining of
petroleum, cracking, knocking, synthetic petrol – Bergius and Fischer- Tropsch’s process,
and biodiesel (properties and significance); Gaseous fuels – natural gas, LPG, CNG
(composition and uses), analysis of flue gas by Orsat’s method, determination of calorific
value by Junker’s gas calorimeter; Combustion – problems.
UNIT II
Cement
Types of cement; Chemical constituents and composition of Portland cement;
Manufacturing methods of Portland cement (wet and dry processes); Properties of cement -
Setting and Hardening of cement (reactions); Testing of cement; Decay of cement; Cement
concrete - RCC.
UNIT III
Engineering materials
III a) Abrasives - Introduction, types of abrasives, working of abrasives, classification and
chemical composition of abrasives, and their applications.
III b) Adhesives - Introduction, criteria of a good adhesive, classification of adhesives and
their applications, advantages and disadvantages of adhesives.
UNIT IV
Refractories and Ceramics
Refractories: Definition; Classification with examples; Characteristics of a good refractory;
Causes for the failure of a refractory material; Properties of refractories - refractoriness, RUL
test, chemical inertness, dimensional stability, thermal expansion and contraction, thermal
conductivity, porosity, electrical conductivity, heat capacity ,permeability, thermal spalling,
and texture.
Ceramics: Introduction; Classification; Glazed ceramics; Applications of ceramics.
UNIT V
Lubricants
Criteria of a good lubricant; Classification of lubricants-lubricating oils; Greases or semisolid
lubricants; Solid lubricants; Mechanism of lubrication-fluid film lubrication, boundary
lubrication, and extreme pressure lubrication; Properties of lubricants - viscosity, cloudpoint,
pour point, flash and fire point, mechanical stability, saponification number, neutralization
number, aniline point, oiliness, and carbon residue.
21
TEXT BOOKS
1. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari and Jyotsna Cherukuri;
Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain and Monica Jain; Publisher: Dhanpatrai.
REFERENCE
1. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Balram Pani; Publisher: Galgotia Publications.
2. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara and Mukkanti; Publisher: S.Chand.
3. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by C.P.Murthy, C.V.Agrawal, and A.Naidu;
Publisher: B.S.Publications.
4. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, and Sulochana
Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
22
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE I sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11CSE1101) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING
UNIT I
Introduction to computers
Computer systems; Computing environments (DOS/Linux); Computer languages; Linux
command for creating and running programs; Software development methods; Algorithms;
Pseudo code; Flow charts; Applying the software development method.
UNIT II
Introduction to C language
History; Simple C programme; Identifiers; Basic data types; Variables; Constants; Type
qualifiers; Input/ Output; Operators; Expressions - precedence and associativity, and
expression evaluation; Type conversions; Bit wise operators; Statements; Simple C
programming examples.
Selection statements – if and switch statements; Repetition statements – while, for, do-while
statements, and loop examples; Other statements related to looping – break, continue, go to
statements, and C Programming examples.
UNIT III
Designing structured programs
Functions – basics; user defined functions; inter-function communication, standard
functions, and scope; Storage classes - auto, register, static, extern, and scope rules;
Recursive functions; Example C programs.
Arrays – Basic concepts, one-dimensional arrays, two – dimensional arrays,
multidimensional arrays, arrays to functions, C program examples.
Strings – Basic concepts, String input/ output functions, arrays of strings, string handling
functions, strings to functions, C programme examples.
UNIT IV
Derived data types
Structures – basic concepts, nested structures, arrays of structures, structures and
functions, unions, typedef, bit fields, enumerated types, and C programming examples.
Pointers
Basic concepts; Pointers and functions; Pointers and strings; Pointers and arrays; Pointers
and structures; Self referential structures; Example C programs.
UNIT V
File I/O
Basic concepts; Text files and binary files; File input/ output operations; File status functions
(error handling); Command-Line Arguments, C program examples.
Preprocessor directives.
23
Dynamic memory allocation.
TEXT BOOKS
1. C Programming: A Problem-Solving Approach by Behrouz A. Forouzan, Richard
F.Gilberg, and E.V.Prasad; Publisher: Cengage Learning.
2. The C Programming Language by Brian W. Kernighan and Dennis M. Ritchie;
Publisher: Prentice Hall.
REFERENCE
1. Let us C by Yashavant Kanetkar; Publisher: BPB Publications
2. C: How to Program by Paul Deitel and Harvey Deitel; Publisher: Prentice Hall
3. Absolute Beginner's Guide to C by Greg M. Perry, Edition 2; Publisher: Sams Pub.,
1994
24
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE I sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11MED1101) ENGINEERING MECHANICS I
UNIT I
Concurrent forces in a plane
Principles of statics; Composition and resolution of forces; Equilibrium of concurrent forces
in a plane; Method of projections; Equilibrium of three forces in a plane; Method of
moments; Friction.
UNIT II
Parallel forces in a plane
Two parallel forces; General case of parallel forces in a plane; Center of parallel forces and
center of gravity; Centroids of composite plane figures and curves; Distributed force in a
plane.
UNIT III
General case of forces in a plane
Composition of forces in a plane; Equilibrium of forces in a plane; Plane trusses: Method of
joints; Plane trusses: Method of sections; Plane frames: Method of members; The funicular
polygon; Maxwell diagrams; Distributed force in a plane; Flexible suspension cables.
UNIT IV
Force systems in space
Concurrent forces in space - method of projections, and method of moments; Couples in
space; Parallel forces in space; Center of parallel forces and center of gravity; General case
of forces in space.
UNIT V
Moments of inertia of a plane figure
Moment of inertia of a plane figure with respect to an axis in its plane; Moment of inertia of a
plane figure with respect to an axis perpendicular to the plane of the figure; Parallel-axis
theorem; Product of inertia and principal axes; Principal axes and principal moments of
inertia.
Moments of inertia of material bodies
Moments of inertia of a rigid body; Moment of inertia of a lamina; Moment of inertia of three-
dimensional bodies; Product of inertia and principal axes; Change of direction of axes of
inertia.
25
TEXT BOOK
Engineering Mechanics by S.Timoshenko and D.H.Young; Publisher: McGraw Hill
26
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE I sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11EEE1130) ELEMENTS OF ENGINEERING
ELEMENTS OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
UNIT I
Construction and facilities
Introduction - Impact of Infrastructural development on the economy of a country, role of civil
engineers, importance of planning, scheduling in construction management;
Surveying - linear measurements, elevation measurements, areas, volumes, modern tools
of surveying like total station, GPS, and GIS;
Construction materials - Importance of civil engineering materials like stones, bricks,
cement, timber, reinforcing steel, paints, glass in construction;
Soils and foundations - Types of soils, SBC of soils, suitable foundations for structures like
buildings; bridges and towers;
Roads and highways - camber, stopping sight distance, overtaking sight distance, BOT
projects;
Planning of buildings - building byelaws and regulations, planning of residential and
commercial facilities like institutes, hospitals, shopping malls, and theatres;
Dams and Reservoir - water requirements and its conservation, hydraulic structures of
storage and water conveyance systems.
ELEMENTS OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
UNIT II
Power (energy) systems
Block diagram of a power system; sources of energy; Conventional, non-conventional and
renewable energy; Application; Resource availability; Power produced; Torque, Speed, and
Efficiency; Materials used in turbine shafts; Blades; Nozzles; Diagnostics and condition
monitoring; Commercial feasibility of power systems.
(Turbine)
UNIT III
Transport vehicles (surface and air)
Road Vehicles - power plant in vehicles, transmission; steering, chassis, body, and wheels
and axles
Rail vehicles - distinction of rail vehicles from road vehicles;
Air vehicles - aeroplane and its parts;
Space vehicles - rockets, 2 stage, 3 stage and 4 stage rockets, and solid and liquid fuels;
Sea Vehicles – power plant, transmission, steering, and hull.
27
ELEMENTS OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
UNIT IV
Electrical power systems
Electrical power generation concept; A.C generator-principle; Steam power plant (thermal
power plant); Hydel power plant (layouts only); Efficiency-transformer-principle-need-types;
Fuse-Substation-simple problems.
UNIT V
Utilization of electrical energy
Electrical heating-advantages; Resistance heating; Illumination; Definitions; Laws of
illumination; Working of Incandescent lamp and Fluorescent lamps; Electric Welding;
Electric Traction-Block diagram; Simplified speed-time curve; Energy meter (principle only).
TEXT BOOKS
1. Electrical Engineering Fundamentals by Vincent Deltora, Prentice Hall of India, 2nd
edition.
2. Art and Science of Utilization of Electrical Energy by H.Partab; Publisher: Dhanpat
Rai.
3. Non-Conventional Energy Sources by G.D. Roy; Publisher: Khanna Publishers.
4. Automotive Mechanics by William Crouse and David Anglin; Publisher: McGraw Hill
REFERENCE
1. A Course in Utilization of Electrical Energy by S.K. Girdhar, G.C. Garg, and S.M. Dhir;
Publisher: Khanna Publishers.
2. Electrical Power Systems by Soni, Gupta, and Batnagar; Publisher: Dhanpat Rai.
3. Generation, Distribution and Utilization of Electrical Energy by C.L. Wadhwa;
Publisher: New Age International.
28
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE I sem L T/P/D C
2 3 2
(R11MED1102) ENGINEERING GRAPHICS I
UNIT I
Introduction to AutoCAD.
Introduction to engineering drawing
Principles of engineering graphics and their significance; Drawing instruments and their
uses; Conventions in drawing-lettering; BIS Convention; Different types of scales; Scale of
chords.
UNIT II
Curves used in engineering practice and their construction
Ellipse; Parabola; Hyperbola and rectangular hyperbola; Cycloid; Epicycloids; Hypocycloid –
involutes.
UNIT III
Orthographic projection
Points and straight lines inclined to both planes; True lengths and traces.
UNIT IV
Projection of planes
Projection of regular planes inclined to both planes; Auxiliary projections.
UNIT V
Projection of solids
Projection of regular solids-inclined to both planes; Auxiliary projections.
TEXT BOOK
Elementary Engineering Drawing by N.D. Bhat; Publisher: Charotar Publishing House
REFERENCE
Engineering Drawing by K.L. Narayana and P. Kannaiah; Publisher: Scitech Publications.
Engineering Graphics for degree by K.C. John; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
29
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE I sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11EPC1201) ENGINEERING PHYSICS AND CHEMISTRY LAB
ENGINEERING PHYSICS LABORATORY
Any eight experiments from the following:
1. Dispersive power of the material of a prism using spectrometer.
2. Diffraction grating (both with laser and non-laser source).
3. Single slit with laser light.
4. Newton’s ring.
5. Finding thickness of a thin wire or sheet by forming a wedge-shaped film.
6. Energy gap of a semiconductor material.
7. Torsional pendulum expt. to determine the rigidity modulus of material of a wire.
8. Melde’s experiment.
9. Sonometer experiment.
10. Numerical aperture and acceptance angle of an optical fiber cable.
11. Stewart Gee’s experiment.
12. Characteristics of LED.
13. Photo cell/ solar cell.
Book: Essential Practical Lab Manual of Physics: by P.Raghavendra Rao
ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY: LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
1. Titrimetry
a) Estimation of hardness of water by EDTA method.
2. Instrumental methods
(i) Conductometry
a) Conductometric titration of strong acid vs strong base
(ii) Colorimetry
a) Estimation of copper by colorimetric method
(iii) Potentiometry
a) Titration of strong acid vs strong base by potentiometry
3. Physical properties
a) Determination of viscosity of sample oil by Redwood viscometer.
4. Preparation of organic compounds
a) Preparation of aspirin or Thiokol rubber
TEXT BOOKS
1. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by S.K.Bhasin and Sudha Rani;
Publisher: Dhanpat Rai.
2. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari and Jyotsna
Cherukuri; Publisher: VGS Book Links.
30
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE I sem. L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11CSE1201) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING LABORATORY
Week 1
1. Write a program using C (WAP) that reads three different integers from the keyboard
and prints – sum, average, product, smallest, and largest of the numbers.
2. WAP that reads two integers and prints – difference, quotient, and remainder.
3. WAP that reads two integers and determines whether the first is a multiple of the other.
Week 2
1. WAP to find the sum of individual digits of a positive integer.
2. WAP to generate Fibonacci sequence (1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8,….).
3. WAP to generate all the prime numbers between 1 and n, where n is a value supplied
by the user.
Week 3
1. WAP to calculate the following sum:
Sum=1-x2/2! +x4/4!-x6/6!+x8/8!-x10/10!
2. WAP to find the roots of a quadratic equation.
Week 4
1. WAP which takes two integer operands and one operator from the user, performs the
operation and then prints the result (consider the operators +,-,*, /, % and use switch
statement).
2. WAP to construct pyramids of numbers.
Week 5
1 WAP to print a given number [0-1000] in words. For example, 123 as “One Hundred
and Twenty Three”.
2 WAP to check whether a given number is an Armstrong, Palindrome, Perfect, Prime,
or a Fibonacci prime number.
3 WAP to find both the largest and smallest number in a list of integers.
Week 6
1. Implementation of functions categories.
2. Write C programs that use both recursive and non-recursive functions:
i) to find the factorial of a given integer.
ii) to find the GCD (greatest common divisor) of two given integers.
Week 7
1. WAP to calculate
i) minimum and maximum of an 1-d array.
ii) sorting and searching of 1-D array.
iii) addition and multiplication of two matrices
Week 8
1. Programs on string handling functions-copying, reverse, substring, concatenation.
31
2. Programs on structure and unions.
Week 9
Midterm exam
Week 10
Programs using pointers - pointer basic operations, and pointers and functions.
Week 11
Program on pointers and structures, pointers and arrays, and pointers and strings.
Week 12
Implementation of file operations and error handling.
Week 13
Implementation of dynamic memory allocation.
Week 14
Programs using command line arguments.
Week 15
Implementation of preprocessor directives.
Week 16
Internal Lab Exam
32
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MTH1102) MATHEMATICS II
(Linear Algebra and Ordinary Differential Equations)
LINEAR ALGEBRA
UNIT I
Solution of linear systems
Matrices and linear systems of equations - elementary row transformations, Rank Echelon
form, and normal form; Solution of linear systems - direct methods - LU decomposition, LU
decomposition from Gauss elimination, and solution of Tri-diagonal systems; Eigen values,
eigen vectors, and their properties - Liner dependence and independence; Cayley-Hamilton
theorem - inverse and powers of a matrix by Cayley-Hamilton theorem, diagonalization of a
matrix, calculation of powers of a matrix; Modal and spectral matrices.
UNIT II
Linear transformations
Real matrices - symmetric, skew symmetric, and orthogonal linear transformation; Complex
matrices - Hermitian, Skew-Hermitian and unitary matrices; Eigen values and eigen
vectors of complex matrices and their properties; Quadratic forms - reduction of quadratic
form to canonical form, rank, positive, negative definite, semi definite, index, signature,
Sylvester law, and singular value decomposition.
ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
UNIT III
Ordinary differential equations and their applications
Differential equations of first order and first degree - Linear, Bernoulli and exact differential
equation; Applications of differential equations of first order and first degree - Newton’s law
of cooling, law of natural growth and decay, orthogonal trajectories, and basic circuits.
UNIT IV
Differential equations of higher order and their applications
Differential equations of higher order - homogeneous and non-homogenous type, differential
equations of second order and higher order with constant coefficients with right hand side
term of the type e
33
a x
, sin (ax), cos (ax), polynomials in x, e
a x
V(x), x V(x), and method
of variation of parameters; Applications to bending of beams; Mechanical systems - simple
harmonic motion.
UNIT V
Linear differential equations and qualitative methods
Cauchy’s linear differential equation; Legendre’s differential equations; Simultaneous linear
differential equations; The phase plane; Phase portraits and direction fields; Critical points
and stability.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K Jain and S.R.K Iyengar, 3rd edition;
Publisher: Narosa Publications, 2011.
2. Differential Equations by Dennis G. Zill; Publisher: Cengage learning, 2011.
REFERENCE
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition; Publisher: John
Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher:
Cengage Learning.
3. Elementary Differential Equations and Boundary Value Problems by William E. Boyce
and Richard C. Diprima; Publisher: Wiley.
4. Linear Algebra and its applications by David C Clay; Publisher: Pearson Education.
5. Differential Equations, with Applications and Historical Notes by George F. Simmons
and John S. Robertson (2008) 2nd Edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
6. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Dennis G. Zill, Warren S. Wright, and Michael
R. Cullen, 4th edition; Publisher: Jones and Bartlett Learning.
34
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11PHY1102) ENGINEERING PHYSICS II
UNIT I
Elements of statistical mechanics
Maxwell-Boltzmann; Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics (non mathematical treatment);
Photon gas; Planck’s law of black body radiation; Deduction of Wein’s law and Rayleigh-
Jeans law from Plank’s law.
Principles of quantum mechanics
Waves and particles; De Broglie hypothesis; Matter waves; Davisson and Germer
experiment; Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle; Schrodinger wave equation; Wave function
and its physical significance - Particle in one dimensional potential box (wave functions,
probability densities, and energy states).
UNIT II
Free electron Fermi gas
Energy levels in one dimension; Effect of temperature on the Fermi-Dirac distribution; Free
electron gas in three dimensions; Electrical conductivity and Ohm’s law; Electrical resistivity
of metals (Qualitative); Thermal conductivity of metals.
Band theory of solids
Electron in a periodic potential - Bloch theorem - Kronig-Penney model (non mathematical
treatment); Origin of energy band formation in solids; Classification of materials into
conductors, semiconductors and insulators; Concept of effective mass of an electron.
UNIT III
Semiconductor physics
Fermi level in intrinsic and extrinsic semiconductors; Intrinsic semiconductor and carrier
concentration; Extrinsic semiconductor and carrier concentration; Equation of continuity;
Direct and indirect band gap semiconductors; Hall effect.
Physics of semiconductor devices
Formation of P-N junction; Open circuit P-N junction; Energy diagram of diode; I/ V
characteristics of P-N junction diode; P-N diode as a rectifier; Diode equation; LED.
UNIT IV
Magnetic properties
Permeability; Field intensity, magnetic field induction, magnetization and magnetic
susceptibility; Origin of magnetic moment - Bohr magneton; Classification of magnetic
materials (Dia, Para, and Ferro); Domain theory of ferromagnetism - Hysteresis curve – soft
and hard magnetic materials; Properties of anti ferro and ferri magnetic materials – ferrites
and their applications.
35
UNIT V
Superconductors
Experimental survey and superconductivity phenomenon; Meissner effect; Critical fields and
Persistent currents; Type I and Type II superconductors; London equations; Flux
quantization; BCS theory; Josephson effect; High temperature superconductors;
Applications of superconductors.
Dielectric properties
Electric dipole; Dipole moment; Dielectric constant; Electronic, ionic and orientation
polarization; Calculation of Polarizibilities; Internal fields; Claussius; Mossotti equation;
Piezo and ferro electricity.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel; Publisher: John Wiley (for UNITS
II to V)
2. Concepts of Modern Physics by Arthur Beiser; Publisher: McGraw Hill Inc.
3. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal; Publisher: IK International Publishing House.
REFERENCE
1. Solid State Physics by S.O.Pillai; Publisher: New Age International.
2. Solid State Physics by A.J.Dekker; Publisher: Macmillan Publishers.
3. Engineering Physics by M. Chandra Shekar and P. Appala Naidu; Publisher: VGS
Book links.
4. Solid State Physics by N.W. Ashcroft and N. David Merwin; Publisher: Thomson
Learning.
5. Engineering Physics by Jain, Sanjay D. and Sahasrabudhe, Girish G.; Publisher:
Universities Press.
6. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India
7. Engineering Physics by M.R.Srinivasan; Publisher: New Age International.
36
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11CHE1101) ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
UNIT I
Electrochemical cells and batteries
Cell representation; Galvanic cells; Single electrode potential; Standard electrode potential;
Electrochemical series; Nernst equation; Concentration cells; Reference electrodes –
hydrogen, calomel, quinhydrone electrode; Ion selective electrodes (glass electrode and
flouride electrode); Numerical problems.
Batteries
Primary and secondary cells (lead-acid cell; Ni-Cd cell; lithium cells); Applications of
batteries; Fuel cells – hydrogen – oxygen fuel cells, advantages of fuel cells; Solar cells -
working, principle, and applications.
UNIT II
Corrosion and its control
Introduction; Causes and effects of corrosion; Different types of corrosion; Theories of
corrosion – chemical, electrochemical corrosion (reactions); Factors affecting corrosion –
nature of metal (galvanic series; over voltage; purity of metal; nature of oxide film; nature of
corrosion product), and nature of environment (effect of temperature; effect of pH; humidity;
effect of oxidant).
Corrosion control methods – cathodic protection, sacrificial anode, and impressed current
cathode;
Surface coatings – methods of application on metals (hot dipping; galvanizing; tinning;
cladding; electroplating), organic surface coatings (paints - constituents and functions).
UNIT III
Polymers
Introduction; Types of polymerization; Plastics - thermoplastic resins, and thermoset resins;
Compounding and fabrication of plastics; Preparation, properties, and engineering
applications of polyethylene, PVC, PS, teflon, bakelite, nylon.
Rubber
Characteristics and uses of rubber - natural rubber, and vulcanization; Elastomers (Buna-s;
Butyl rubber; thiokol rubbers); Fibers – polyester; Fiber reinforced plastics (FRP) and their
applications.
UNIT IV
Water
Introduction; Hardness - causes, expression of hardness, units, types of hardness,
estimation of temporary and permanent hardness of water, and numerical problems; Boiler
troubles – scale and sludge formation, caustic embrittlement, corrosion, priming and
foaming; Softening of water (Internal and external treatment - lime soda, zeolite, ion
37
exchange process, and numerical problems); Reverse osmosis and Electro dialysis
(desalination processes).
UNIT V
Nanomaterials
Introduction; Preparation and applications of nanomaterials with special reference to carbon
nanotubes.
Insulators
Classification of insulators; characteristics of thermal and electrical insulators and their
applications; Superconductors - Nb-Sn alloy, YBa2 Cu3 O7-x; Applications of
superconductors.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari and Jyotsna Cherukuri;
Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain and Monica Jain, Publisher: Dhanpatrai Publishing
Company.
REFERENCE
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara and Mukkanti; Publisher: S.Chand.
2. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by C.P.Murthy, C.V.Agrawal, and A.Naidu;
Publisher: B.S.Publications.
3. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, and Sulochana
Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
38
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11HAS1101) ENGLISH
Introduction
This is the age of information and communication technologies. Engineers and technical
professionals need to convey technical information in English for various purposes.
Besides learning general English as an international language, engineering students need
to be equipped with adequate writing ability so that they can communicate technical
information clearly on at least a basic level. A good English writing proficiency can be a
contributing factor to professional recognition and career prospects. This course teaches
those writing strategies that scientists, engineers, and others will need in order to write
successfully on the job. It initiates the students into Technical Writing. The purposes of
technical writing are to inform and persuade. This program aims to train students in writing
clear, concise and effective English.
This Syllabus is therefore, a Pragmatic English Writing Program for engineering students
with intermediate proficiency. The program covers a syllabus outline and instructional
approaches on basic writing skills with particular reference to technical writing.
Objectives
i) To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for advanced writing and speaking.
ii) To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns and grammatical
constructions required of in technical writing.
iii) To acquaint the students with the writing process, beginning with paragraph writing.
This would prepare them for academic and workplace writing.
iv) Equip the students with Oral Communication Skills.
Methodology
A Task-based, process oriented methodology will be used by the teachers to give a practical
orientation to the teaching of language. An inductive approach will be used to demonstrate
the use of language in context. This should enable the students to internalize the language
structures and vocabulary used in context. Students will be exposed to numerous examples
and ample practice will be given in the contextual use of language structures.
Syllabus Outline
UNIT I
Prose:
1. Heaven’s Gate by Pico Iyer
2. The Connoisseur by Nergis Dalal
UNIT II
Basic grammar
i) Common errors v) Use of articles and prepositions
39
ii) Subject-Verb agreement vi) Conjunctions
iii) Adverbs vii) Pronoun reference
iv) Transitional elements
UNIT III
Reading and writing skills
i) Reading comprehension vi) Synonyms and antonyms
ii) Paragraph writing vii) One word substitutes
iii) Letter writing viii) Prefixes and suffixes
iv) Memo writing ix) Idioms and phrases
v) Words often confused
UNIT IV
Prose
1. The Cuddalore Experience by Anu George
2. The Odds Against Us by Satyajit Ray
UNIT V
Technical writing component
A. Definition of a Technical Term
B. Description of a Mechanism
C. Description of a Technical Process
D. Classification
E. Cause and Effect
F. Comparison and Contrast
G. Analogy
TEXT BOOKS
1. Effective Technical Communication by M. Ashraf Rizvi; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Technical Communication: Principles and Practices by M. Raman and S. Sharma;
Publisher: Oxford University Press, 2004 (Indian Edition).
REFERENCE
1. Technical Writing Process and Product by Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson, 3rd
edition; Publisher: Prentice Hall 1999
2. Blanton, L.L. 1993; Composition Practice, Book 4 ,Second Edition; Publisher: Heinle
and Heinle Publishers, pp. 54
3. Georges, T.M. 1996; A course in Analytical Writing for Science and Technology,
http://www.mspiggy.etl.noaa.gov/write/
4. Oxford English for Electrical and Mechanical Engineering by E.H.Glendinning, and
N.Glendinning, 1995, pp.28,68,83; Publisher: Oxford University Press.
5. Greaney, G.L. 1997; Less is More: Summary Writing and Sentence Structure in the
Advanced ESL Classroom, The Internet TESL Journal, Vol.III, No.9;
http://iteslj.org/Techniques/Greaney-Writing.html
6. A Handbook for Technical Communication by J.K. Neufeld, 1987; Publisher: Prentice
Hall.
40
7. Principles of Course Design for Language Teaching, by J. Yalden, 1987; Publisher:
Cambridge University Press.
8. A Guide to Writing as an Engineer by David F. Beer and David McMurrey; 2nd / 3rd
edition, Publisher: Wiley.
9. Applied Writing for Technicians by Dale Jungk; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
10. A Pocket Style Manual by Diane Hacker, 2003; Publisher: Bedford/ St. Martin's.
41
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11CSE1102) DATA STRUCTURES
UNIT I
Introduction to data structures.
Abstract data types.
Linear lists
Singly linked list implementation - insertion, deletion, and searching operations on linear list;
Circular linked list implementation; Double linked list implementation - insertion, deletion and
searching operations; Applications of linked lists.
UNIT II
Stacks
Operations; Array and linked representations of stacks; Stack applications - infix to postfix
conversion, postfix expression evaluation, and recursion implementation.
UNIT III
Queues
Operations; Array and linked representations; Circular queue operations; Dequeues;
Applications of queues.
UNIT IV
Trees
Definitions; Binary tree representation; Binary search tree; Binary tree traversals.
Graphs
Definitions; Graph representations; Graph traversals.
UNIT V
Searching and sorting
Big O notation;
Searching - linear and binary search methods;
Sorting - selection sort, bubble sort, insertion sort, quick sort, and merge sort.
.
TEXT BOOKS
1. C Programming and Data Structures by B.A.Forouzan and R.F. Gilberg, Third Edition,
Publisher: Cengage Learning.
2. Data Structures Using C (Paperback) by Aaron M. Tenenbaum; Publisher: Pearson
Education.
REFERENCE
1. C and Data structures by P. Padmanabham, Third Edition; Publisher: B.S.
Publications.
2. Data Structures using C and C++ by A.M.Tanenbaum, Y.Langsam, and M.J.
Augenstein; Publisher: Pearson Education/ Prentice Hall
42
3. C Programming and Data Structures by E. Balagurusamy; Publisher: Tata McGraw
Hill.
4. Computer Programming and Data Structures by P. Dey, M. Ghosh R. Thareja;
Publisher: Oxford University Press.
5. C and Data structures by E V Prasad and N.B. Venkateswarlu; Publisher: S. Chand.
43
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11MED1103) ENGINEERING MECHANICS II
UNIT I
Principle of virtual work
Equilibrium of ideal systems; Efficiency of simple machines; Stable and unstable
equilibrium.
UNIT II
Rectilinear translation
Kinematics of rectilinear motion; Principles of dynamics; Differential equation of rectilinear
motion; Motion of a particle acted upon by a constant force; Force as a function of time;
Force proportional to displacement - free vibrations; D’ Alembert’s principle; Momentum and
impulse; Work and energy; Ideal systems; Conservation of Energy; Impact.
UNIT III
Curvilinear translation
Kinematics of curvilinear motion; Differential equations of curvilinear motion; Motion of a
projectile; D’ Alembert’s principle in curvilinear motion; Moment of momentum; Work and
energy in curvilinear motion.
UNIT IV
Rotation of a rigid body about a fixed axis
Kinematics of rotation; Equation of motion for a rigid body rotating about a fixed axis;
Rotation under the action of a constant moment; Torsional vibration; The compound
pendulum; General case of moment proportional to angle of rotation; D’ Alembert’s principle
in rotation; Resultant inertia force in rotation; The principle of angular momentum in rotation;
Energy equation for rotating bodies; Gyroscopes.
UNIT V
Plane motion of a rigid body
Kinematics of plane motion; Instantaneous center; Equations of plane motion; D’ Alembert’s
principle in plane motion; The principle of angular momentum in plane motion; Energy
equation for plane motion.
TEXT BOOK
Engineering Mechanics by S.Timoshenko and D.H.Young; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
44
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II sem L T/P/D C
2 3 2
(R11MED1104) ENGINEERING GRAPHICS II
UNIT I
Sections and sectional views
Sections of right regular solids-prisms, pyramids, cylinders and cones – auxiliary views
Development of surfaces
Development of surfaces of right regular solids prisms, pyramids, cylinders and cones.
UNIT II
Intersection of solids
Intersection of prism Vs prism, cylinder Vs prism, cylinder Vs cylinder, and cylinder Vs cone
UNIT III
Isometric projections
Principles of isometric projections, Isometric scale, isometric views, conventions, isometric
views of lines, planes, simple and compound solids, isometric views of objects having
spherical parts.
UNIT IV
Tranformation of projections
Conversion of isometric views to orthographic views-conventions and vice versa.
UNIT V
Perspective projections
Perspective view of points, lines, plane figures and simple solids, vanishing point method
and visual ray method
TEXT BOOK
Elementary Engineering Drawing by N.D.Bhat; Publisher: Charotar Publishing House
REFERENCE
Engineering Drawing by K.L. Narayana and P. Kannaiah; Publisher: Scitech Publications.
Engineering Graphics for degree by K.C. John; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
45
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11MED1201) ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
Mechanical Part (12 weeks)
TRADES FOR EXCERCISES
At least two exercises from each trade:
1. Carpentry
2. Tin-Smithy
3. Fitting
4. Welding
5. Electrical Wiring
TRADES FOR DEMONSTRATION and EXPOSURE:
1. Power tools in construction, wood working, electrical engineering and mechanical
engineering.
2. Machine shop.
IT Workshop (4 weeks)
Computer hardware: identification of parts, assembling, and disassembling.
Installation of operating system: windows, linux – basic commands.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Workshop Manual by P.Kannaiah and K.L.Narayana; Publisher: Scitech.
2. IT Essentials: PC Hardware and Software Companion Guide, Third Edition by David
Anfinson and Kenneth Quamme; Publisher: CISCO Press/ Pearson Education.
3. PC Hardware and A+ Handbook by Kate J. Chase; Publisher: Microsoft press.
46
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11HAS1203) ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
The English Language Communication Skills Lab. aims to provide practice in all the four
skills of LSRW, and provide ample practice in listening and speaking skills.
Syllabus for Lab. Sessions
UNIT I
Multimedia Lab
1. Phonetics
2. Listening comprehension
3. Vocabulary Lesson 1
Oral Communication Skills Lab: Self Introduction; E-mail
UNIT II
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar ---Nouns and Pronouns; The Present Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 2
3. Listening Skills
Oral Communication Skills Lab: Role Play/ Situational Dialogues
UNIT III
Multimedia Lab
1. Telephoning Skills
2. Grammar --- Articles; The Past Tense
3. Vocabulary Lesson 3
Oral Communication Skills Lab: JAM/ Short Talk
UNIT IV
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar ---- Concord; The Future Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 4
3. Listening Comprehension
Oral Communication Skills Lab: Information Transfer
UNIT V
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar --- Adjectives, adverbs, conjunctions
2. Vocabulary -- Lesson 5
Oral Communication Skills Lab: Presentation Skills
MULTIMEDIA LAB REQUIREMENTS
Minimum Requirement
47
The English Language Lab shall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Lab for 60 students with 60 systems, one master
console,LAN facility and English language software for self- study by learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Lab with movable chairs and audio-visual aids with a P.A
System,
iii) a T. V., a digital stereo –audio and video system and camcorder etc.
System Requirement (Hardware component)
Computer network with LAN with minimum 60 multimedia systems with the following
specifications:
iv) P – IV Processor
a) Speed – 2.8 GHZ
b) RAM – 512 MB Minimum
c) Hard Disk – 80 GB
v) Headphones of High quality
Suggested Software
vi) The software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above should be procured
and used.
 Clarity Pronunciation Power – part II
 Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
 DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill Practice.
 Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
 TOEFL and GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO and BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE by
CLIFFS)
48
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech AE I sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MTH1103) MATHEMATICS III
(Partial Differential Equations and Integral Transforms)
PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
UNIT I
Partial differential equations
Introduction and formation of partial differential equations by elimination of arbitrary
constants and arbitrary functions; Solutions of first order linear (Lagrange’s) equation and
non-linear (standard type) equations; Method of separation of variables for second order
equations; Particular integrals; Monge’s method for solving Rr+ Ss+ Tt = V
INTEGRAL TRANSFROMS
UNIT II
Laplace transform
Laplace transform of standard functions; Inverse transform-first shifting theorem; Dirac’s
delta function; Convolution theorem; Periodic function; Differentiation and integration of
transforms; Application of Laplace transforms to ordinary differential equations.
UNIT III
Fourier series
Determination of Fourier coefficients; Fourier series - even and odd functions; Fourier
series in an arbitrary interval; Even and odd periodic continuation; Half range Fourier series
sine and cosine expansions; Fourier integral theorem (only statement); Fourier sine and
cosine integrals; Fourier transforms; Fourier sine and cosine transforms; Properties; Inverse
transforms-finite Fourier transforms.
UNIT IV
Application of transform (Laplace and Fourier)
Solutions of wave equation, heat equation and Laplace equation and their use in problems
of vibrating string; One dimensional unsteady heat flow; Two dimensional steady heat flow.
UNIT V
Z-Transform
z-transform; Inverse z-transform; Properties, initial, and final value theorems; Convolution
theorem; Difference equations; Solutions of difference equations using z-transform.
49
TEXT BOOKS
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K Jain and S.R.K Iyengar, 3rd edition;
Publisher: Narosa Publications, 2011.
2. Elements of Partial Differential Equations by Ian Naismith Sneddon; Publisher: Dover
Publications.
REFERENCE
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher: John
Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher:
Cengage Learning.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Dennis G. Zill and Warren S. Wright; 4th
edition; Publisher: Jones and Bartlett Learning.
50
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech AE I sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11MED1106) MECHANICS OF SOLIDS I
UNIT I
Tension, compression, and shear
Introduction; Normal Stress and Strain; Stress-strain diagrams; Elasticity and plasticity;
Linear elasticity and Hooke’s law; Allowable stress and allowable loads.
Axially loaded members
Introduction; Deflections of axially loaded members; Displacement diagrams; Statically
indeterminate structures (flexibility method and stiffness method); Temperature and
prestrain effects; Stresses on inclined sections; Strain energy; Dynamic loading; Overview
of nonlinear behavior.
UNIT II
Torsion
Introduction; Torsion of circular bars; Nonuniform torsion; Pure shear; Relationship between
moduli of elasticity E and G; Transmission of power by circular shafts; Statically
indeterminate torsional members; Strain energy in pure shear and torsion.
Shear force and bending moment diagrams
Types of beams; Types of loading; Shear force and bending moment; Relationship between
load, shear force and bending moment; Shear force and bending moment diagrams.
UNIT III
Area moment of inertia of composite sections.
Stresses in beams
Introduction; Normal strains in beams; Normal stresses in beams; Cross-sectional shapes of
beams; Shear stresses in rectangular beams; Shear stress in webs of beams with flanges;
Shear stress in circular beams (solid and hollow sections); Built-up beams; Overview of
stresses in nonprismatic beams.
UNIT IV
Analysis of stress and strain
Introduction; Plane stress; Principal stresses and maximum shear stresses; Mohr’s circle for
plane stress; Hooke’s law for plane stress; Spherical and cylindrical pressure vessels
(biaxial stress; Hoop and longitudinal stresses); Combined loadings (plane stress); Principal
stresses in beams; Triaxial stress; Volumetric strain; Three dimensional stress; Overview of
plane strain.
51
UNIT V
Deflections of beams
Introduction; Differential equations of the deflection curve; Deflections by integration of the
bending moment equation; Deflections by integration of the shear-force and load equations;
Macaulay’s method; Moment area method; Method of superposition; Nonprismatic beams;
Strain energy in bending; Overview of discontinuity functions.
TEXT BOOK
Mechanics of Materials (SI units) by J.M.Gere and S.P.Timoshenko; Publisher: CBS
Publishers.
REFERENCE
Engineering Mechanics of Solids by Popov; Publisher: Pearson Education.
Strength of Materials Schaum’s Series..
52
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech AE I sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11MED1107) THERMODYNAMICS
UNIT I
Introduction
Various applications of thermodynamics.
Control volumes and units (concepts and definitions)
A thermodynamic system and the control volume; Macroscopic versus microscopic point of
view; Properties and state of a substance; Processes and cycles, units for mass, length,
time, and force; Energy; Specific volume and density; Pressure; Equality of temperature;
The Zeroth law of thermodynamics; Temperature scales; Engineering applications.
Properties of a pure substance
The pure substance; Vapor- liquid- solid- phase equilibrium in a pure substance;
Independent properties of a pure substance; Tables of thermodynamic properties;
Thermodynamic surfaces; The P-V-T behavior of low- and moderate- density gases; The
compressibility factor; Equations of state; Introduction to computerized tables; Engineering
applications.
Work and heat
Definition of work; Units for work; Work done at the moving boundary of a simple
compressible system; Other systems that involve work; Remarks regarding work; Definition
of heat; Heat transfer modes; Comparison of heat and work; Engineering applications.
UNIT II
Energy equation for a control mass (The first law of thermodynamics)
The first law of thermodynamics for a control mass undergoing a cycle; The first law of
thermodynamics for a change in state of a control mass; Internal energy-a thermodynamic
property; Problem analysis and solution technique; The thermodynamic property enthalpy;
The constant-volume and constant-pressure specific heats; The internal energy, enthalpy,
and specific heat of ideal gases; The first law as a rate equation; Conversion of mass;
Engineering applications.
Energy equation for a control volume (First law analysis for a control volume)
Conversion of mass and the control volume; The first law of thermodynamics for a control
volume; The steady-state process; Examples of steady-state processes; Engineering
applications.
53
UNIT III
The (classical) second law of thermodynamics
Heat engines and refrigerators; The second law of thermodynamics; The reversible process;
Factors that render processes irreversible; The Carnot cycle; Two propositions regarding
the efficiency of a Carnot cycle; The thermodynamic temperature scale; The ideal-gas
temperature scale; Ideal versus real machines; Engineering applications.
Entropy for a control mass
The inequality of Clausius; Entropy – a property of a system; The entropy of a pure
substance; Entropy of a pure substance, Entropy change in reversible processes; The
thermodnamic property relation; Entropy change of an ideal gas; The reversible polytropic
process for an ideal gas; Entropy change of a control mass during an irreversible process;
Entropy generation; Principle of the increase of entropy; Entropy as ya rate equation; Some
general comments about entropy and chaos.
Entropy equation for a control volume (Second law analysis for a control volume)
The second law of thermodynamics for a control volume; The stead–state process; The
steady-state single flow process; Principle of the increase of entropy; Engineering
applications; Efficiency.
UNIT IV
Irreversibility and Availability
Available energy; Reversible work, and irreversibility; Availability and second-law efficiency;
Energy balance equation; Engineering applications.
Power and refrigeration systems-with phase change (Cycles)
Introduction to power systems; The Rankine cycle; Effect of pressure and temperature on
the Rankine cycle; Introduction to refrigeration systems; The vapour-compression
refrigeration cycle.
Power and refrigeration systems-gaseous working fluids
Air-standard power cycles; The Brayton cycle; The simple gas-turbine cycle with a
regenerator; The air-standard cycle for jet propulsion; Reciprocating engine power cycles;
The Otto cycle; The diesel cycle; The Stirling cycle; The Atkinson and Miller cycles;
Combined cycle power and refrigeration systems.
UNIT V
(Ideal) Gas mixtures
General consideration and mixtures of ideal gases; A simplified model of a mixture involving
gases and a vapor; The first law applied to gas-vapor mixtures; The adiabatic saturation
process; Engineering applications: Wet-bulb and dry- bulb temperatures and overview of
psychrometric chart.
54
Thermodynamic (property) relations
The Clapeyron equation; Mathematical relations for a homogeneous phase; The Maxwell
relations; Thermodynamic relations involving enthalpy, internal energy, and entropy; Volume
expansivity, and isothermal and adiabatic compressibility; Real gas behavior and equations
of state; The generalized chart for changes of enthalpy at constant temperature; The
generalized chart for changes of entropy at constant temperature; The property relation for
mixtures; Pseudopure substance models for real-gas mixtures; Tables of thermodynamic
properties.
TEXT BOOK
Fundamentals of Thermodynamics by C. Borgnakke and R.E. Sonntag; Publisher: John
Wiley.
REFERENCE
1. Fundamentals of Thermodynamics by C. Borgnakke, R.E. Sonntag, and G.J. Van
Wylen; Publisher: John Wiley.
2. Engineering Thermodynamics by P.K.Nag.
3. Thermodynamics – An engineering approach by Yunus Cengel and Boles; Publisher:
TMH.
55
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME I sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11MED1108) METALLURGY AND MATERIAL SCIENCE
UNIT I
Metal structure and crystallization
Introduction - atom binding, ionic bond, covalent bond, metallic bond, and Vander Waals
forces;
Overview of metal structure and crystallization.
Constitution of alloys
Introduction; Classification of alloys or compounds; Pure metal; Intermediate alloy phase or
compound - intermetallic compounds or valency compounds, interstitial compounds, and
electron compounds; Solid solutions; Substitutional solid solution - factors that control the
range of solubility in alloy system; Interstitial solid solutions.
UNIT II
Phase diagrams
Introduction; Coordinates of phase diagrams; Experimental methods - construction of
equilibrium diagrams by thermal analysis, metallographic methods, and X-ray diffraction;
Type-I-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid and solid states; Chemical composition of
phases; relative amounts of each phase; Equilibrium cooling of a solid solution alloy;
Diffusion; Nonequilibrium cooling; Homogenization; Properties of solid-solution alloys;
Variation of Type I; Type II-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid state and completely
insoluble in the solid state; Type III-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid state but
only partly soluble in the solid state; Properties of eutectic alloy systems; Age hardening –
solution treatment, and aging process; Type IV-The congruent-melting intermediate phase;
Type V-The peritectic reaction; Type VI-Two liquids partly soluble in the liquid state: the
monotectic reaction; Type VII-two metals insoluble in the liquid and solid states; Interrelation
of basic types;
Transformations in the solid state - allotropy, order-disorder transformation, the eutectoid
reaction, the peritectoid reaction, and complex diagrams;
Study of important binary phase diagrams of Cu-Ni, Al-Si,Sb-Pb,Pt-Ag,Bi-Cd,Cu-Pb,Cu-
Sn,and Fe-Fe3C.
UNIT III
The heat treatment of steel
Introduction; Full Annealing; Spheroidizing; Stress-relief annealing; Process annealing;
Normalizing; Hardening; The isothermal transformation diagram; Transformation to Pearlite
56
and Bainite; Cooling curves and I-T Diagram; Transformation on continuous cooling;
Position of the I-T curves; Hardening or austenitizing temperature; Homogeneity of
austenite; Mechanism of heat removal during quenching - vapor-blanket cooling state (stage
A), vapor transport cooling stage (stage B), Liquid cooling stage (stage C); Quenching
medium; Temperature of quenching medium; Surface condition - methods to minimize the
formation of scale - copper plating, protective atmosphere, liquid-salt pots, and cast-iron
chips; Size and Mass; Hardenability; Use of Hardenability data; Tempering; Austempering;
Surface heat treatment or case hardening; Carburizing; Heat treatment after carburizing;
Cyaniding and Carbonitriding; Nitriding; Flame hardening; Induction Hardening; Residual
Stresses; Hardenable carbon steels.
UNIT IV
Alloy steels
Introduction; Purpose of alloying; Effect of alloying elements upon Ferrite; Effect of alloying
elements upon carbide; Influence of alloying elements on the iron-iron carbide diagram;
Effect of alloying elements in tampering; Classification of steels - nickel steel, chromium
steel, nickel-chromium steels, manganese steels, molybdinum steels, tungsten steels,
venedium steels, silicon steels, stainless steels, martensitic stainless steels, ferritic stainless
steels, austenitic stainless steels, precipitation-hardening stainless steels, maraging steels,
and ausforming.
Tool steels
Classification of tool steels; Selection of tool steels; Comparative properties; Non-deforming
properties; Depth of hardening; Toughness; Wear resistance; Red-hardness; Machinability;
Resistance to decarburization; Brand names; Water-hardening tool steels (Group W); Shock
resisting tool steels (Group S); Cold-work tool steels; Hot-work tool steels (Group H); High
speed tool steels; Mold Steels (Group P); Special purpose tool steels; Heat treatment of tool
steels; Overview of tool failures;
Special cutting materials – satellites, cemented carbides, and ceramic tools.
UNIT V
Cast iron
Introduction; Types of cast iron; White cast iron; Malleable cast iron; Pearlitic malleable iron;
Gray cast iron; Silicon in cast iron; Sulfur in cast iron; Manganese in cast iron; Phosphorus
in cast iron; Heat treatment of grey iron, Size and distribution of graphite flakes; Mechanical
properties and applications of grey cast iron; Chilled cast iron; Nodular cast iron; Alloy cast
irons.
57
Non-ferrous metals and alloys
Introduction; Copper and its alloys - Copper, temper designation of copper and copper
alloys, and copper alloys; Aluminum and its alloys - Aluminum, Alloy designation system,
and temper designation; Titanium and Titanium alloys.
Overview of solidification of metals
TEXT BOOK
Introduction to Physical Metallurgy by Sidney H. Avner; Publisher: McGrawHill.
REFERENCE
1. Essentials of Materials Science and Engineering by Donald R. Askeland and
Thomson.
2. Materials Science and Engineering by William and Collister.
3. Elements of Materials Science by V.Raghavan
58
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech. AE I sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MED1112) FLUID MECHANICS AND TURBOMACHINERY
UNIT I
Fluid properties
Definitions: Definition of a fluid, force, mass, length, and time units; Viscosity; Continuum;
Density, specific volume, unit gravity force, relative density, pressure, and perfect gas; Bulk
modulus of elasticity; Vapor pressure; Surface tension.
Fluid statics
Pressure at a point; Basic equation of fluid statics; Units and scales of pressure
measurement; Manometers; Forces on plane areas; Force components on curved surfaces;
Buoyant force; Stability of floating and submerged bodies; Relative equilibrium.
Fluid-flow concepts and basic equations
Flow characteristics – definitions; The concepts of system and control volume; Application of
the control volume to continuity, energy and momentum; Continuity equation; Euler’s
equation of motion along a streamline; The Bernoulli equation.
UNIT II
Fluid-flow concepts and basic equations (contd)
The steady state energy equation; Application of the energy equation to steady fluid flow
situations; Applications of the linear momentum equation; The moment-of-momentum
equation.
Dimensional analysis and dynamic similitude
Dimensional homogeneity and dimensionless ratios; Dimensions and units; The π-theorem;
Discussion of dimensionless parameters; Similitude – model studies.
Viscous effects – fluid resistance
Laminar, incompressible, steady flow between parallel plates; Laminar flow through circular
tubes and circular annuli; the Reynolds number; Prandtl mixing length - velocity distribution
in turbulent flow; Transport phenomina; Boundary-layer concepts; Drag on immersed
bodies.
UNIT III
Fluid measurement
Pressure measurement; Velocity measurement; positive-displacement meters; Orifices;
Venturimeter, nozzle, and other rate devices; Overview of measurement of turbulence;
Measurement of viscosity.
59
Turbo machinery
Introduction to turbomachinery; Homologous units; Specific speed; Elementary cascade
theory; Theory of turbomachines.
UNIT IV
Turbo machinery
Reaction turbines; Pumps and blowers; Impulse turbines; Cavitation.
UNIT V
Viscous effects – fluid resistance (Contd)
Resistance to turbulent flow in open and closed conduits; Overview of steady uniform flow in
open channels; Overview of Steady incompressible flow through simple pipe systems
Steady closed conduit flow
Exponential pipe friction formulas; Hydraulic and energy grade lines; The siphon; Pipes in
series; Pipes in parallel; Branching pipes; Networks of pipes.
Introduction to compressible flow, perfect gas relationships, speed of sound wave,
Mach number
TEXT BOOK
1. Fluid Mechanics (First SI Metric Edition) by V.L. Streeter and E.B. Wylie, Publisher:
McGraw Hill.
2. Fluid Mechanics (Third edition; International Student Edition) by V.L. Streeter;
Publisher: McGraw Hill and Kogakusha.
REFERENCE
1. Schaum’s outline of Fluid Mechanics; Publisher: TMH.
2. Fluid Mechanics by F.M.White; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
3. Fluid Mechanics and Fluid Power Engineering by D.S. Kumar
4. Fundamentals of Compressible Flow by S.M.Yahya; Publisher: New Age International.
60
61
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech AE I sem L T/P/D C
0 6 4
(R11MED1109) MACHINE DRAWING
Machine drawing conventions
Need for drawing conventions – introduction to IS conventions
a) Conventional representation of materials, common machine elements and parts such
as screws, nuts, bolts, keys, gears, webs, and ribs.
b) Types of sections – selection of section planes, and drawing of sections and auxiliary
sectional views. Parts not usually sectioned.
c) Methods of dimensioning, general rules for sizes, and placement of dimensions for
holes, centers, and curved and tapered features.
d) Title boxes, their size, location, and other details - common abbreviations and their
liberal usage
e) Types of drawings – working drawings for machine parts.
f) Production drawings
I. Drawing of machine elements and simple parts
Selection of orthogonal views, and additional views for the following machine elements and
parts with every drawing proportion.
a) Popular forms of screw threads, bolts, nuts, stud bolts.
b) Keys, cottered joints, and knuckle joint.
c) Riveted joints for plates.
d) Shaft coupling and spigot joint.
e) Journal, pivot, and collar bearings.
II. Part and assembly drawings
Assembly drawings for the following, using conventions and easy drawing proportions:
a) Engine parts – stuffing boxes, eccentrics, I.C. engine connecting rod, and piston
assembly.
b) Other parts - screws jacks, machine vices, and tailstock.
c) Valves - steam stop valve.
III. Production drawings
a) Overview of limits, fits, tolerances, geometrical accuracy, surface roughness symbols,
welding symbols etc.
b) Production drawings of piston assembly and tailstock.
NOTE
1. To adopt first angle of projection.
62
2. The student should be able to provide working drawings of actual parts.
TEXT BOOK
Machine Drawing by K.L. Narayana, P. Kannaiah and K. Venkata Reddy; Publisher: New
Age/ Publishers.
REFERENCE
Machine Drawing by Siddheswar, Kannaiah and Sastry.
Machine Drawing by N.D.Bhat.
63
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech. AE I sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11MED1203) METALLURGY LAB AND MECHANICS OF SOLIDS LAB
Metallurgy lab.
1. Preparation and study of the microstructure of pure metals like Iron, Cu and Al.
2. Preparation and study of the microstructure of mild steels, low carbon steels, and high
carbon steels.
3. Study of the microstructures of cast irons.
4. Study of the microstructures of non-ferrous alloys.
5. Study of the microstructures of heat treated steels.
6. Hardeneability of steels by Jominy end quench test.
7. To find out the hardness of various treated and untreated steels.
Mechanics of solids lab.
1. Direct tension test
2. Bending tests:
a) Simple supported beam
b) Cantilever beam
3. Torsion test
4. Hardness test
a) Brinell hardness test
b) Rockwell hardness test
5. Test on springs
6. Compression test on a cube
7. Impact test
8. Punch shear test
64
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech. AE I sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11MED1205) MECHANICS OF FLUIDS AND TURBOMACHINERY LAB
1. Impact of jets on vanes.
2. Performance test on pelton wheel.
3. Performance test on francis turbine.
4. Performance test on kaplan turbine.
5. Performance test on single stage centrifugal pump.
6. Performance test on multi stage centrifugal pump.
7. Performance test on reciprocating pump.
8. Calibration of venturimeter.
9. Calibration of orifice meter.
10. Determination of friction factor for a given pipe line.
11. Determination of loss of head due to sudden contraction in a pipeline.
12. Turbine flow meter.
65
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech. AE II sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11MED1110) MECHANICS OF SOLIDS II
UNIT I
Statically indeterminate beams
Statically indeterminate beams; Analysis by differential equations of the deflection curve;
Moment-area method; Method of superposition (flexibility method); Continuous beams;
Temperature effects; Horizontal displacements at the ends of a beam.
UNIT II
Unsymmetric bending
Introduction; Doubly symmetric beams with skew loads; Pure bending of unsymmetric
beams; Generalized theory of pure bending; Bending of beams by lateral loads; Shear
centre; Shear stresses in beams of thin-walled open cross sections; Shear centers of thin-
walled open sections; General theory for shear stresses.
UNIT III
Inelastic bending
Introduction; Equations of inelastic bending; Plastic bending; Plastic hinges; Plastic analysis
of beams; Deflections; Inelastic bending; Residual stresses.
UNIT IV
Columns
Buckling and stability; Columns with pinned ends; Columns with other support conditions;
Columns with eccentric axial loads; Secant formula; Imperfections in columns; Elastic and
inelastic column behavior; Inelastic buckling; Column design formulas.
UNIT V
Energy methods
Introduction; Principal of virtual work; Unit-load method for calculating displacements;
Reciprocal theorems; Strain-energy and complementary energy; Strain-energy methods;
Complementary energy methods; Castigliano’s second theorem; Shear deflections of
beams.
TEXT BOOK
Mechanics of Materials by J.M.Gere and S.Timoshenko; Publisher: CBS
REFERENCE
Engineering Mechanics of Solids by E.P.Popov; Publisher: Pearson Education.
Strength of Materials Schaum’s Series.
66
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech AE II sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11MED1111) KINEMATICS OF MACHINERY
KINEMATICS AND MECHANISMS
UNIT I
About mechanisms
Introduction; introduction to analysis and synthesis; The science of mechanics; Terminology,
definitions, and assumptions; Introduction to planar, spherical, and spatial mechanisms;
Mobility; Classification of mechanisms; Kinematic inversion; Grashof’s law; Mechanical
advantage.
Position and displacement
Locus of a moving point; Position of a point; Position difference between two points;
Apparent position of a point; Absolute position of a point; Graphic position analysis;
Algebraic position analysis; Complex-algebra solutions of planar vector equations; Overview
of Complex polar algebra; Position analysis techniques.
UNIT II
Velocity
Definition of velocity, Rotation of a rigid body; Velocity difference between points of a rigid
body; Graphic methods-velocity polygons; Apparent velocity of a point in a moving
coordinate system; Apparent angular velocity; Direct contact and rolling contact; Systematic
strategy for velocity analysis; Analytic methods; Overview of complex-algebra methods; The
method of kinematic coefficients; The vector method; Instantaneous center of velocity; The
aronhold-kennedy theorem of three centers; Locating instant centers of velocity; Velocity
analysis using instant centers; Mechanical advantage; Centrodes.
Acceleration
Definition of acceleration; Angular acceleration; Acceleration difference between points of a
rigid body; Acceleration polygons; Apparent angular acceleration; Direct contact and rolling
contact; Systematic strategy for acceleration analysis; Analytic methods; Overview of
Complex algebra methods; Overview of the method of kinematic coefficients.
DESIGN OF MECHANISMS
UNIT III
Cam design
Introduction; Classification of cams and followers; Displacement diagrams; Graphical layout
of cam profiles; Kinematic coefficients of the follower motion; Overview of high speed cams;
Standard cam motions; matching derivatives of the displacement diagrams; Plate cam with
reciprocating flat-face follower; Plate cam with reciprocating roller follower.
67
UNIT IV
Spur gears
Terminology and definitions; Fundamental law of toothed gearing; Involute properties;
Interchangeable gears; AGMA standards; Fundamentals of gear tooth action; The
manufacture of gear teeth; Interference and undercutting; Contact ratio, Varying the center
distance; Involutometry; Nonstandard gear teeth.
Helical gears
Parallel-axis helical gears; Helical-gear-tooth relations; Herringbone gears;
Bevel gears
Straight-tooth bevel gears.
Overview of worm gears.
UNIT V
Mechanism trains
Parallel-axis gear trains and definitions; Examples of gear trains; Determining tooth
numbers; Epicyclic gear trains; Bevel-gear epicyclic trains; Analysis of planetary trains by
formula; Tabular analysis of planetary gear trains; Overview of adders and differentials; All-
wheel drive train.
TEXT BOOK
Theory of Machines and Mechanisms by J.J. Uicker Jr., G.R. Pennock, and J.E.Shigley;
Publisher: McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
1. Mechanism Design (Vol 1) by A.G.Erdman and G.N.Sandor; Publisher: Prentice Hall of
India.
2. Theory of Machines by Thomas Bevan; Publisher: CBS
3. Design of Machinery by R.L.Norton; Publisher: McGraw Hill
68
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech AE II Sem T T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11AME1101) AUTOMOTIVE ENGINES
UNIT I
Introduction
Beginnings; Growth and Refinement; Modern Development; Overview
Thermodynamics of Prime Movers
Introduction; Two and Four StrokeEngines; Indicator Diagrams and Internal Combustion
Engine PerformanceParameters; Otto and Diesel CycleAnalyses - The Ideal Air Standard
OttoCycle, The Ideal Air Standard DieselCycle, and Efficiencies of RealEngines; Ignition
and Combustion in Spark Ignition and Diesel Engines; Sources of Emissions - Simple
CombustionEquilibrium, Unburned Hydrocarbons (HC) and Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) in Spark
IgnitionEngines, Unbumed Hydrocarbons (HC), Nitrogen Oxides (NOx), and Particulates in
Compression Ignition Engines; Fuel and AdditiveRequirements - Abnormal Combustion in
Spark Ignition Engines, and Gasoline and DieselAdditives; Gas ExchangeProcesses - Valve
Flow and Volumetric Efficiency, ValveTiming, Valve OperatingSystems, and Dynamic
Behavior of ValveGear; EngineConfiguration - Choosing the Number ofCylinders, and
Balancing of the Primary and Secondary Forces andMoments; FuelCells - Solid Polymer
Fuel Cells(SPFC), Solid Polymer Fuel Cell (SPFC) Efficiency (activation Losses; fuel
Crossover and Internal Currents; OhmicLosses; Mass TransferLosses; OverallResponse),
and Sources of Hydrogen for Solid Polymer Fuel Cells (SPFC) (Steam Reforming(SR);
Partial Oxidation (POX) Reforming; Autothermal Reforming(AR); Carbon Monoxide Clean-
Up and Solid Polymer Fuel Cell (SPFC) Operation on Reformed Fuel; HydrogenStorage),
and Hydrogen Fuel Cell Systems.
UNIT II
Spark Ignition Engines
Introduction; Engine parts – classification, function, and materials; Spark Ignition and
Ignition Timing - Ignition System Overview, The IgnitionProcess, and Ignition Timing
Selection and Control; Mixture Preparation; Combustion SystemDesign - Port Injection
Combustion Systems, and Direct Injection Spark Ignition (DISI) Combustion Systems;
Emissions Control - Development of the Three-Way Catalyst, Durability, Catalyst Light-Off,
and Lean-Bum NOx-Reducing Catalysts, "DENOx"; Power Boosting - Variable Valve Timing
and Induction Tuning, and Supercharging; Engine Management Systems – Introduction, and
Sensor Types (Crankshaft Speed/Position and Camshaft Position; Throttle Position; Air
Flow Rate; Inlet Manifold Absolute Pressure; Air Temperature and Coolant Temperature;
Air-Fuel Ratio; Knock Detector); Engine Management System Functions – Ignition Timing,
Air-Fuel Ratio Control, Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) Control, and Additional Functions.
69
UNIT III
Diesel Engines
Introduction; Engine parts; Direct and Indirect Injection Combustion Chambers; Fuel
Injection Equipment - Pump-Line-Injector (PLI) Systems, Electronic Unit Injectors (EUI), and
Common Rail (CR) Fuel Injection Systems; Diesel Engine Emissions and Their Control -
Diesel Engine Emissions, Diesel Engine Emissions Control (Exhaust Gas Recirculation
(EGR); Particulate Traps); Turbocharging – Introduction, Turbocharger Performance, and
Turbocharged Engine Performance; Diesel Engine Management Systems.
UNIT IV
Ancillaries
Introduction; Lubrication System – Bearings (Anti-Friction Bearings; Guide Bearings; Thrust
Bearings; Journal Bearings), Engine Lubricants, and Lubrication of Journal Bearings;
Vehicle Cooling Systems–Coolant; Drive Belts - Flat Belt Drives, and V-Belts); Air
Conditioning Systems – Overview, Thermodynamic Performance and Operation, Coefficient
of Performance (CoP), and Air Conditioning System Performance; Generators, Motors, and
Alternators – Fundamentals, Practical Alternators, and Practical Starter Motors).
UNIT V
Overview of alternative vehicles
Case Study
Introduction; The Vauxhall – Introduction, Specifications, Engine Design and Performance,
and Engine Performance.
TEXT BOOK
Automotive Engineering Fundamentals by Richard Stone and J.K. Ball; Publisher: SAE
International.
REFERENCE
1. Automotive Mechanics by William H. Crouse and Donald L. Anglin; Publisher: McGraw
Hill .
2. Automotive Mechanics by Heitner.
3. Automotive Mechanics by Kirpal Singh
70
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech AE II sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11MED1113) APPLIED THERMODYNAMICS
UNIT I
Steam cycles
Rankine cycle; Rankine cycle with superheat; The enthalpy-entropy chart; The reheat cycle;
The regenerative cycle; Further considerations of plant efficiency; Steam for heating and
process use.
Gas turbine cycles
The practical gas turbine cycle; Modifications to the basic cycle; Additional factors.
UNIT II
Nozzles and jet propulsion
Nozzle shape; Critical pressure ratio; Maximum mass flow; Nozzles off design pressure
ratio, Nozzle efficiency; The steam nozzle; Stagnation conditions; Jet propulsion; The
turbojet; The turboprop.
Positive displacement machines
Reciprocating compressors; Reciprocating compressors including clearance; Multi-stage
compression; Steady-flow analysis; Rotary machines; Vacuum pumps; Air motors.
UNIT III
Rotodynamic machinery
Rotodynamic machines for steam and gas turbine plant; The impulse steam turbine;
Pressure and velocity compounded impulse steam turbines; Axial-flow reaction turbines;
Losses in turbines; Axial-flow compressors; Overall efficiency, stage efficiency, and reheat
factor; Polytropic efficiency; Centrifugal compressors; Radial-flow turbines.
UNIT IV
Reciprocating internal-combustion engines
Four-stroke cycle; Two-stroke cycle; Other types of engine; Criteria of performance; Engine
output and efficiency; Performance characteristics; Factors influencing performance; Real
cycles and the air standard cycles; Properties of fuels for IC engines.
UNIT V
Reciprocating internal-combustion engines (contd)
Fuel systems; Measurement of air and fuel flow rates; Supercharging; Engine emissions
and legal requirements; Alternative forms of IC engines; Developments in IC engines.
71
Overview of refrigeration and heat pumps
Psychrometry and air conditioning
Psychrometric mixtures; Specific humidity, relative humidity and percentage saturation;
Specific enthalpy; Specific heat capacity; Specific volume of moist air; Overview of air-
conditioning systems.
TEXT BOOK
Applied Thermodynamics by T.D.Eastop and A.McConkey; Publisher: Addison Wesley.
REFERENCE
1. Basic and Applied Thermodynamics by P.K.Nag; Publisher: TMH.
2. Engineering Fundamentals of IC Engine by Pulkrabek; Publisher: Perason/PHI.
3. Internal Combustion Engine Fundamentals by Heywood; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
4. I.C.Engines by V.Ganeshan; Publisher: TMH.
72
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech AE II sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11MED1114) PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY
UNIT I
Materials in manufacturing
Major classes of engineering materials - metals, ceramics, plastics, composite structures,
and joining.
Metal casting
Structure and properties of castings - solidification of melts, and macrosegregation;
Casting properties - viscosity, surface effects, and fluidity;
Casting alloys - ferrous materials, and non ferrous materials;
Melting and pouring: melting, pouring, and quality assurance;
Casting processes – classification, ingot casting, casting of shapes, expendable-mold and
expendable-pattern casting, permanent-mold casting, and centrifugal casting;
Finishing processes - cleaning and finishing, and changing properties after casting;
Quality assurance – inspection, and casting defects;
Process capabilities and design aspects - process capabilities, and part design.
UNIT II
Plastic deformation of metals
Material properties - flow stress in cold working, discontinuous yielding, textures
(anisotropy), effects of cold working, annealing, hot working, and interactions between
deformation and structure;
Overview of Mechanics of deformation processing;
Wrought alloys - carbon steels, alloy steels, and nonferrous materials.
Bulk deformation process
Classification - temperature of deformation, purpose of deformation, and analysis;
Open die forging – axial upsetting of a cylinder, forging of rectangular workpieces, and open
die forging;
Overview of Impression-die and closed-die forging;
Extrusion - the extrusion process, hot extrusion, cold extrusion, and extrusion force;
Forging and extrusion equipment - tools and dies, hammers, and presses;
Drawing: the drawing process, and overview of forces.
Rolling - flat rolling, shape rolling, ring rolling, transverse rolling, and overview of forces and
power requirements.
73
UNIT III
Sheet metalworking processes
Sheet materials - steels, nonferrous materials, surface topography;
Classification;
Shearing - the shearing process, forces, improving the quality of cut, and processes;
Bending - the bending process, bending limits, stresses and springback, and bending
methods;
Overview of Stretch forming;
Deep drawing - drawing processes, limiting draw ratio, and further drawing;
UNIT IV
Processing of plastics
Classification; Casting;
Melt processing (molding) - principles of melt processing, extrusion, injection moulding,
other moulding techniques;
Processing in the rubbery state - blow moulding, thermoforming, cold drawing, matched-die
forming;
Particulate processing techniques; Cellular or foam plastics; Processing of elastomers.
UNIT V
Joining processes
Classification; Mechanical joining;
Solid state welding - cold welding, diffusion welding, hot welding, and friction welding
(FRW);
Fusion welding - the fusion joint, weldability and weld quality, and weldable materials;
Resistance welding;
Electric arc welding - nonconsumable electrode welding, consumable-electrode welding,
and consumable-work piece welding;
Overview of liquid solid state bonding
Overview of Adhesive bonding;
Joining of plastics, and joining of ceramics.
TEXT BOOK
Introduction to Manufacturing Processes by John A. Schey; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
1. Manufacturing Processes for Engineering Materials by Serope Kalpakjian
2. Manufacturing Technology (Volume 1) by P.N.Rao; Publisher: TMH.
3. Process and Materials of Manufacturing by Lindberg; Publisher: Pearson Education.
74
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech. AE II sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11EIE1130) Fundamentals of Electrical and Electronics Engineering
UNIT I
Introduction to electrical engineering
Basic circuit components, Types of elements, types of sources, Ohm’s law, Kirchhoff’s laws,
Simple problems. resistive networks, inductive networks, capacitive networks, series,
parallel circuits, star delta and delta star transformation, Network theorems- Super position,
Thevenins’s, Norton’s, Maximum power transfer theorems and simple problems.
UNIT II
Alternating quantities
Principles of ac voltages, waveforms and basic definitions, root mean square and average
values of alternating currents and voltages, form factor and peak factor, phasor
representation of alternating quantities, the J operator and phasor algebra, analysis of ac
circuits with single basic network element, single phase series circuits.
UNIT III
Diode: characteristics, rectifiers, and filters
Qualitative theory of p-n junction, p-n junction as a diode, diode equation, v-i characteristics,
temperature dependence of VI characteristics, Ideal versus practical -resistance levels
(static and dynamic), transition and diffusion capacitances, diode equivalent circuits, p-n
junction as a rectifier , half wave, full wave and Bridge rectifiers. Filters : Inductor,
Capacitor, L-section and π section filters. ripple factor. Need for voltage regulation.
UNIT IV
Bipolar junction transistor
Junction transistor, Transistor current components, transistor as an amplifier, Transistor
Construction, BJT operation, BJT symbol, Configurations: Common Base, Common Emitter
and Common Collector.
Biasing and Stabilization:
Operating point, Need for biasing, Fixed bias, collector-to-base bias, Voltage divider bias,
Bias stability, Stabilization factors (S,S’,S”) definitions.
UNIT V
Field effect transistor
The junction FET (JFET), Construction and principle of operation, symbol, Pinch off voltage,
Drain and Transfer characteristics, MOSFET principle of operation, symbol, MOSFET
Characteristics in Enhancement and Depletion Modes.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Basic Electrical Engineering by M.S.Naidu and S.Kamakshiah; Publisher: TMH
75
2. Electronic Devices and Circuits by J.Millman and C.C.Halkias; Publisher: Tata
McGraw Hill, 1998.
REFERENCE
1. Electronic Devices and Circuits by A.P. Godse and U.A.Bakshi, Technical Publications.
2. Electrical Circuit Theory and Technology – by John Bird; Publisher: Elsevier, 2007.
3. Theory and Problems of Basic Electrical Engineering by D.P.Kothari and I.J.Nagrath;
Publisher: PHI.
4. Electrical Circuit Analysis-by Sudhakar and Shyam Mohan; Publisher: TMH
76
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech AE II Sem T T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11AME1201) AUTOMOTIVE ENGINES LAB I
(10 experiments)
PART-A
1. Study of Hand power and measuring tools – sketching, materials used and their uses.
2. Writing technical specification and descriptions of all types of automobile engines
(petrol and diesel) –materials, functions with sketches.
3. (i) Dismantling, Inspection for wear and tear, crack, material breakdown of different
engines components. Servicing of engines by paraffin and degreasing methods,
decarborising procedure, Dismantling, Inspection and Assembly of different parts of
two wheelers. 3 wheelers and 4 wheelers. Tractor and heavy duty engines covering 2–
stroke and 4 stroke, SI and CI engines using the concepts of torque and assembly
diagrams.
(ii) Measurement of dimensions of different components of the above engines and
compare the same with standard specifications. Assembling the engines with using
special tools, necessary adjustments of the engine components. Value spring testing,
connecting rod alignment, piston ring testing procedure for dismantling and
assembling.
PART-B
1. Testing of I.C. Engines-Basic measurements –speed, fuel, flow, air ‘consumption,
measurement of BHP using different types of dynamometers, their working principles.
Determination of IHP, BHP. Mech. Efficiency, break thermal efficiency, indicated
thermal efficiency, volumetric efficiency SFC. etc; Drawing head balance sheet for
petrol and diesel engines.
2. Test on multi cylinder engines, Morse test.
3. Valve and port timing diagrams-determination of compression ratio.
4. Tests on Fuel and Lubricants.
77
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech AE II sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11MED1210) PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY Lab
Metal casting lab
1. Pattern design and making - for one casting drawing.
2. Sand properties testing - exercise -for strengths, and permeability – 1
3. Moulding melting and casting - 1 exercise
Welding lab
1. ARC welding lap and butt joint - 2 exercises
2. Spot welding - 1 exercise
3. TIG welding - 1 exercise
4. Plasma welding and brazing - 2 exercises
Mechanical press working
1. Blanking and piercing operation and study of simple, compound and progressive press
tool.
2. Hydraulic press: deep drawing and extrusion operation.
3. Bending and other operations
Processing of plastics
1. Injection moulding
2. Blow moulding
Automotive body building
1. Fabrication of automotive body parts.
2. Joining processes for automotive body parts.
3. Assembly of automotive body parts.
78
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech AE I sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11MED1115) DYNAMICS OF MACHINERY
UNIT I
Static force analysis
Introduction; Applied and constraint forces; Free-body diagrams; Conditions for equilibrium;
Two- and three- force members; Four-force members; Friction-force models; Static force
analysis with friction; Spur-and helical-gear force analysis; Straight-bevel-gear force
analysis; The method of virtual work.
UNIT II
Dynamic force analysis (Planar)
Introduction; Centroid and center of mass; Mass moments and products of inertia; Inertia
forces and D’ Alembert’s principle; The principle of superposition; Planar rotation about a
fixed center; Shaking forces and moments; Complex algebra approach; equation of motion.
Dynamic force analysis (Spatial)
Introduction; Measuring mass moment of inertia; Transformation of Inertia axes; Euler’s
equations of motion; Impulse and momentum; Angular impulse and angular momentum.
UNIT III
Dynamics of reciprocating engines
Engine types; Indicator diagrams; Dynamic analysis-general; Gas forces; Equivalent
masses; Inertia forces; Bearing loads in a single-cylinder engine; Crankshaft torque; Engine
shaking forces; Computation overview.
UNIT IV
Balancing
Static unbalance; Equations of motion; Static balancing machines; Dynamic unbalance;
Analysis of unbalance; Dynamic balancing; Balancing machines; Field balancing with a
programmable calculator; Balancing a single-cylinder engine; Balancing multicylinder
engines; Analytical technique for balancing multicylinder reciprocating engines; Balancing
linkages; Balancing of machines.
UNIT V
Overview of cam dynamics
Flywheels
Dynamic theory; Integration technique; Multicylinder engine torque summation.
79
Governors
Classification; Centrifugal governors; Inertia governors; Mechanical control systems;
Standard input functions; Solution of linear differential equations; Analysis of proportional–
error feedback systems.
Gyroscopes
Introduction; The motion of a gyroscope; Steady or regular precession; Forced procession.
TEXT BOOK
Theory of Machines and Mechanisms by J.J. Uicker Jr., G.R. Pennock, and J.E.Shigley;
Publisher: McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
1. Mechanism Design (Vol 1) by A.G.Erdman and G.N.Sandor; Publisher: Prentice Hall of
India.
2. Theory of Machines by Thomas Bevan; Publisher: CBS
3. Design of Machinery by R.L.Norton; Publisher: McGraw Hill
80
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech AE I sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11MED1116) MECHANICAL ENGINEERING DESIGN I
FUNDAMENTALS OF MECHANICAL DESIGN
UNIT I
Introduction
The meaning of design; Mechanical engineering design; The phases of design; Recognition
and identification; Evaluation and presentation; Design considerations; Factor of safety;
Codes and standards; Economics; Reliability; Safety and product liability; Units.
Stress analysis
Stress; Mohr’s circle; Triaxial stress states; Uniformly distributed stresses; Elastic strain;
Stress strain relations; Shear and moment; Singularity functions.
Normal stresses in bending; Vector programming; Beams with unsymmetrical sections;
Shear stresses in beams; Shear stresses in rectangular-section beams; Flexural shear for
other shapes; Shear center; Torsion; Stresses in cylinders; Press and shrink fits;
Strain energy
Concepts, The theorem of Castigliano; Overview of columns;
UNIT II
Design for static strength
Static strength; Static loads and factor of safety; Failure theories; The maximum-normal-
stress theory; The maximum-shear-stress theory; The distortion–energy theory; Failure of
ductile materials; Failure of brittle materials; Stress concentration; Determination of stress
concentration factors; Stress-concentration charts; Stress concentration and static loads.
Design for fatigue strength
Introduction; The S-N diagram, Low-cycle fatigue; High-cycle fatigue; Endurance-limit
modifying factors; Surface finish; Size effects; Reliability; Temperature effects; Stress
concentration effects; Fluctuating stresses; Fatigue strength under fluctuating stresses.
DESIGN OF MECHANICAL ELEMENTS
UNIT III
The design of screws, fasteners, and connections
Thread standard and definitions; The mechanics of power screws; Thread stresses;
Threaded fasteners; Bolted joints in tension; Compression of bolted members; Torque
requirements; Strength specifications; Bolt preload; Selecting the nut; Fatigue loading;
Gasketed joints; Bolted and riveted joints loaded in shear; Centroids of bolt groups; Shear of
bolts and rivets due to eccentric loading; Keys, pins, and retainers.
81
UNIT IV
Welded, brazed, and bonded joints
Welding; Butt and fillet welds; Torsion in welded joints; Bending in welded joints; The
strength of welded joints.
Mechanical springs
Stresses in helical springs; Deflection of helical springs; Extension springs; Compression
springs; Spring materials; Design of helical springs; Critical frequency of helical springs;
Overview of Fatigue loading.
UNIT V
Rolling contact bearings
Bearing types; Bearing life; Bearing load; Selection of ball and straight roller bearings;
Selection of tapered roller bearings; Lubrication; Mounting and enclosure.
TEXT BOOK
1. Mechanical Engineering Design (SI edition) by J.E. Shigley; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Mechanical Engineering Design (SI edition) by J.E.Shigley and Mischke.
3. Mechanical Engineering Design (International edition) by J.E.Shigley, Mischke, and
Budynas; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
4. Mechanical Engineering Design (International edition) by J.E.Shigley, Mischke,
R.G.Budynas, and K.J.Nisbett; Publisher: TMH.
REFERENCE
1. Machine Design by R.L.Norton; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Schaum’s Outline of Machine Design; Publisher: TMH
82
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech AE I sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MTH1104) NUMERICAL ANALYSIS AND LINEAR PROGRAMMING
NUMERICAL ANALYSIS
UNIT I
Solutions of nonlinear systems
Introduction; Mathematical preliminaries; Solution of algebraic and transcendental equations
– the bisection method, the method of false position, the iteration method, Newton -
Raphson method, and their order of convergence.
UNIT II
Interpolation
Introduction; Errors in polynomial interpolation; Finite differences; Forward differences;
Backward differences; Central differences; Symbolic relations and separation of symbols;
Differences of a polynomial; Newton’s formulae for interpolation; Central difference
interpolation formulae; Gauss’s central difference formulae; Lagrange and Hermite
interpolation formulae; Cubic spline interpolation.
UNIT III
Numerical differentiation and Integration
Introduction; Differentiation of equally and unequally spaced data, and finite difference
approximations; Trapezoidal rule, Simpson’s 1/3 rule, and Simpson’s 3/8 rule.
Numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations
Solution of initial value problems by Taylor’s series - Picard’s method of successive
approximations, Euler’s method, and Runge - Kutta methods; Predictor Corrector methods –
Adams-Bashforth-Moulton method.
UNIT IV
Numerical solutions of partial differential equations (PDE)
Introduction; Classification of second order PDE; finite difference approximations to
derivatives; Solution of Laplace and Poisson equation - Jacobi’s method, Gauss-Seidal
method (by Leibmann’s), Solution of parabolic equations (heat equation) by explicit and
Crank Nicolson implicit scheme method; Solution of hyperbolic equations (wave equation).
LINEAR PROGRAMMING
UNIT V
Linear programming
Basic concepts; formulation of linear programming problem; constrained optimization-linear
programming - simplex method, dual simplex method, and transportation problems.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Numerical Analysis by S.S.Sastry;, Publisher: PHI , 2010.
83
2. Operations Research by Prem Kumar Gupta and D.S.Hira (2003); Publisher: S.Chand.
REFERENCE
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher: John
Wiley and Sons.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher:
Cengage Learning.
3. Elementary Numerical Analysis: An algorithmic approach by Samuel D. Conte and Carl
De Boor (2006); 3rd edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
4. Numerical Analysis by R.L Burden and J.D Faires; 7th edition; Publisher: Thomson,
2007.
84
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech. AE Isem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11MED1117) MACHINE TOOLS
UNIT I
Introduction
Introduction to material removal processes; Variety of machine tools.
Metal cutting
Introduction; Chip formation; Shear zone; Orthogonal cutting; Shear angle and its relevance;
Cutting tool materials; Thermal aspects; Tool wear and tool life; Surface finish; Cutting
fluids; Empirical and analytical determination of cutting forces; Economics.
Machine tools
Introduction; Classification of machine tools; Generating and forming; Methods of generating
surfaces; Accuracy and finish achievable; Basic elements of machine tools; Support
structures; Power transmission; Actuation systems; Guideways; General work holding
methods.
UNIT II
Centre lathe
Introduction; Constructional features of a centre lathe; Aids for support and location; Cutting
tools; Operations performed in a centre lathe; Taper turning methods; Thread-cutting
methods; Special attachments; Machining time and power estimation; Typical setups.
Special purpose lathes
Limitations of a centre lathe; Capstan and turret lathes; Automatic lathes; Tooling layout.
Reciprocating Machine Tools
Introduction; Shaper; Planing machine; Slotter.
UNIT III
Milling
Introduction; Types of milling machines; Milling cutters; Milling operations; Dividing head;
Milling Mechanics; Milling time and power estimation; Special setups.
Hole-making operations
Introduction; Drilling; Reaming; Boring; Tapping; Other hole-making operations.
Abrasive processes
Introduction; Grinding wheel designation and selection; Types of grinding machines;
Grinding process; Grinding process parameters; Creep feed grinding; Honing; Lapping;
Other finishing processes.
85
UNIT IV
Other machine tools
Sawing; Overview of Broaching; Gear cutting.
Overview of Machine tool testing
Designing for machining
Introduction; General guidelines for “design for machining”.
UNIT V
Jigs and fixtures
Introduction; Functional surfaces; Location principles; Locating devices; Clamping devices;
Jigs; Designing a Jig; Fixtures.
TEXT BOOK
Manufacturing Technology (Volume 2): Metal Cutting and Machine Tools by P.N. Rao;
Publisher: McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
1. Technology of Machine Tools by Steve F Krar, Arthur R Gill, and Peter Smid;
Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Production Technology; Publisher: HMT and McGraw Hill.
3. Manufacturing Engineering and Technology by Serope Kalpakjian and Steven R.
Schmid; Publisher: Pearson.
86
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech AE I sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11MED1118) METROLOGY AND INSTRUMENTATION
METROLOGY FOR WORKSHOP/ MACHINE SHOP
UNIT I
Accuracy – interchangeability – gauging
Conditions and synthesis of accuracy; Interchangeability and limit systems; BS system;
Selective assembly gauging; Limit gauges; Indicating gauges; Special and first operation
gauges.
Checking and measurement of surfaces
Surface relationships and accuracy; Tests for accuracy; Flatness; Squareness; Parallelism;
Roundness; Concentricity; Angle measurement; Vernier protractor; Length measurement;
The rule; Calipers; Micrometer; Vernier caliper; Use of gauges; Metric system; Metric and
english micrometer and vernier.
UNIT II
Measurement and precision work
Slip gauges; Comparator; Vernier height guage; Marking out; Vernier micrometer; Examples
of measurement; Sine bar; Angular testing; Use of rollers; Tapers; Projection.
Measurement and inspection
The standard of length; Measurement and comparison of length; Plane, angular, and linear
examination; Comparison of heights and parallelism; Angular and division testing; The tool
maker’s microscope; Inspection and control on the machine.
Screw thread and spur gear measurement
Screw thread shapes and accuracy; Screw thread inspection; Screw thread limits and
tolerances; Measurements and testing of gears.
UNIT III
Surface roughness measurements
Surface roughness vs. surface waviness; Numerical assessment of surface finish; Methods
of measurements of surface finish; ISI symbols for indication of finish.
INSTRUMENTATION: MECHANICAL MEASUREMENTS
Measurement of flow
Introduction; Basic principles of flow measurement; Fluid flow in closed pipes; Flow in open
channels; Point velocity measurement; Flow meter calibration methods.
Overview of measurement of viscosity
87
INSTRUMENTATION SYSTEMS
UNIT IV
Classification of instrument transducers
Primary quantities – input characteristics; Secondary quantities – output characteristics;
Electromechanical coupling characteristics – electromechanical analogies, and Unified
theory of bilateral electromechanical transducers (basic two port equations; ideal
transducers; real transducers); Feedback systems.
Design and construction of instruments
Introduction; Instrument design; Elements of construction; Construction of electronic
instruments; Mechanical instruments;
Instrument installation and commissioning
Introduction; General requirements; Storage and protection; Mounting and accessibility;
Piping systems. Cabling; Earthing; Overview of testing and precommissioning; Plant
commissioning.
UNIT V
Overview of pneumatic instrumentation
Display and recording
Introduction; Indicating devices; Light-emitting diodes (LEDs); Liquid crystal displays
(LCDs); Plasma displays; Cathode ray tubes (CRTs); Graphical recorders; Magnetic
recording; Transient/waveform recorders; Data loggers.
Interface and backplane bus standards for instrumentation systems
Introduction; Principles of interface; Data-link control protocol; Parallel interface and buses;
Parallel bus; backplane bus; parallel bus; Black plane bus standards.
TEXT BOOK
For Metrology part:
1. Workshop Technology - Part I (3rd edition) by W.A.J. Chapman; pp. 194 to 228;
Publisher: Viva Books.
2. Workshop Technology - Part II (3rd edition) by W.A.J. Chapman; pp. 1 to 68; Publisher:
Viva Books.
3. Workshop Technology - Part III (3rd edition) by W.A.J. Chapman and S.J. Martin; pp.
481 to 506 and 531 to 545; Publisher: Viva Books.
For Instrumentation part:
INSTRUMENTATION by B.E. Noltingk (Part Numbers 1, and 4); Publisher: Butterworth-
Heinemann 1995
(Alternatively available as separate books, Jones' Instrument Technology - Volume 1:
Mechanical Measurements; Jones' Instrument Technology - Volume 4: Instrumentation
Systems by Ernest Beachcroft Jones, and B.E.Noltingk; Publisher: Butterworths
1985/1987).
88
REFERENCE
1. Instrument Transducers: An Introduction to Theory by Neubert Herman; Publisher:
Oxford - Harper Collins
2. Engineering Metrology by Hume
3. Metrology by R.K. Jain
89
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11CED1109) ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
UNIT I
Introduction; Definition, scope, and Importance
Ecosystems - Introduction, types, Classification of Eco system, AND structure and functions
of ecosystems.
Bio-diversity and its conservation; Value of bio-diversity; Bio-geographical classification of
India – India as a mega diversity habitat; Threats to bio-diversity –Hot-spots of Bio Diversity;
Conservation of bio-diversity.
UNIT II
Natural Resources
Classification of Resources; Land resources; Land degradation; Soil erosion and
desertification; Food resources; Effects of modern agriculture; Fertilizer pesticide problems;
Food miles; Organic farming; Forest resources; Use and over-exploitation; Water resources;
Dams–benefits; Conflicts over Water; Energy resources-sustainable Development; Energy
Audit
UNIT III
Environmental pollution and its control
Classification of pollution and pollutants; Air pollution, causes; Effects; Control measures;
Ambient air quality standards; Water pollution causes; Effects; Control measures; Water and
waste water treatment methods; Water quality standards; Noise pollution causes; Effects;
Control measures; Land pollution causes, effects, and control measures; Solid waste
disposal methods; Characteristics of e-waste and management.
UNIT IV
Global Environmental problems and global Efforts
Nuclear hazards; Global warming; Acid rain; Hurricanes; Hazardous Waste; Overpopulation;
Ozone layer depletion; Clean development mechanism; Green computing; Green Building;
Carbon credits; Carbon trading.
International conventions/protocols
Earth summit; Kyoto protocol and Montreal protocol; Stockholm Declaration
90
UNIT V
Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management plan
Definition of impact; Classification of Impacts; Prediction of impacts and impact assessment
methodologies; Environmental impact statement; Environmental management plan -
Technological Solutions.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Environmental Science by Y.Anjaneyulu; Publisher: BS Publications.
2. Text book of Environmental Studies by Deeksha Dave; Publisher: Cengage Learning.
3. Textbook of Environmental Science and Technology by M.Anji Reddy; Publisher: BS
Publications
REFERENCE
1. Environmental Science by Anubha Kaushik and C P Kaushik; Publisher: New Age
International
2. Environmental Studies by S V S Rana; Publisher: Rastogi Publications
3. Text book of Environmental Studies by Dr. K Raghavan Nambiar; Publisher: Scitech
Publishers.
91
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech AE I sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11MED1211) MACHINE TOOLS LAB
1. Introduction to general purpose machines - lathe, drilling machine, milling machine,
shaper, planing machine, slotting machine, cylindrical grinder, surface grinder, and tool
and cutter grinder.
2. Step turning and taper turning on lathe machine.
3. Thread cutting and knurling on lathe machine.
4. Drilling and tapping.
5. Shaping and planning.
6. Slotting.
7. Milling.
8. Cylindrical surface grinding.
9. Machining of engine components.
10. Machining of transmission components.
92
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech. AE I sem L T/P/D C
0 5 3
(R11MED1212) METROLOGY AND INSTRUMENTATION LAB
METROLOGY: Ten experiments
1. Measurement of lengths, heights, diameters by vernier calipers micrometers etc.
2. Measurement of bores by internal micrometers and dial bore indicators.
3. Use of gear teeth, Vernier calipers and checking the chordal addendum and chordal
height of spur gear.
4. Machine tool alignment test on a lathe.
5. Machine tool alignment test on a milling machine.
6. Tool makers microscope and its application
7. Angle and taper measurements by bevel protractor, sine bars, etc.
8. Use of spirit level in finding the flatness of surface plate.
9. Thread measurement by two wire/ three wire method or tool makers’ microscope.
10. Surface roughness measurement by Taly Surf.
11. Surface wear resistances test using electro spark coating device.
INSTRUMENTATION LAB: Ten experiments
1. Calibration of pressure gauges
2. Calibration of transducer for temperature measurement.
3. Study and calibration of LVDT transducer for displacement measurement.
4. Calibration of strain gauge for temperature measurement.
5. Calibration of thermocouple for temperature measurement.
6. Calibration of capacitive transducer for angular displacement.
7. Study and calibration of photo and magnetic speed pickups for the measurement of
speed.
8. Calibration of resistance temperature detector for temperature measurement.
9. Study and calibration of a rotometer for flow measurement.
10. Study and use of a seismic pickup for the measurement of vibration amplitude of an
engine bed at various loads.
11. Study and calibration of Mcleod gauge for low pressure.
12. Mounting and calibration of load cell.
REFERENCES
1. Workshop Technology by W.A.J. Chapman (Parts I, II, and III); Publisher: Viva Books.
2. The Principles of Metallographic Laboratory Practice by George L. Kehl; Publisher:
McGraw Hill.
93
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech AE II Sem T T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11MED1120) MECHANICAL ENGINEERING DESIGN II
UNIT I
Lubrication and journal bearings
Types of lubrication; Viscosity; Petroff’s law; Stable lubrication; Thick-film lubrication;
Hydrodynamic theory; Design considerations; Bearing performance; Optimization
techniques; Pressure–fed bearings; Heat balance; Bearing design; Bearing types; Thrust
bearings; Bearing materials; Boundary- lubricated bearings.
UNIT II
Spur gears
Nomenclature; Conjugate action; Involute properties; Fundamentals; Contact ratio;
Interference; The forming of gear teeth; Basic tooth dimensions; Gear trains; Force analysis;
Tooth stresses; Dynamic effects; Estimating gear size; Fatigue strength; Factor of safety;
Surface durability; Surface fatigue strength; Heat dissipation; Gear materials; Gear- blank
design.
Helical, worm, and bevel gears
Parallel helical gears-kinematics; Helical gears-tooth proportions; Helical gears- force
analysis; Helical gears-strength analysis; Crossed helical gears; Worm gearing–kinematics;
Worm gearing-force analysis; An observation and some REFERENCE; Straight bevel
gears- kinematics; Bevel gears- force analysis; Spiral bevel gears.
UNIT III
Shafts Power screws
Introduction; Design for static loads; A historical approach; Reversed bending and steady
torsion; The Soderberg approach; The Goodman approach; A general approach; The Sines
approach, Suggestions for computer solution.
Power Screws
UNIT IV
Clutches, brakes, couplings, and flywheels
Statics; Internal–expanding rim clutches and brakes; External–contracting rim clutches and
brakes; Band-type clutches and brakes; Band type clutches and brakes; Frictional-contact
axial clutches; Cone clutches and brakes; Energy considerations; Temperature rise; Friction
materials; Miscellaneous clutches and couplings; Flywheels.
94
UNIT V
Flexible, mechanical elements
Belts; Flat- belt drives; V belts; Roller chain; Rope drives; Wire rope.
TEXT BOOK
1. Mechanical Engineering Design (SI edition) by J.E. Shigley; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Mechanical Engineering Design (SI edition) by J.E.Shigley and Mischke.
3. Mechanical Engineering Design (International edition) by J.E.Shigley, Mischke, and
Budynas; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
4. Mechanical Engineering Design (International edition) by J.E.Shigley, Mischke,
R.G.Budynas, and K.J.Nisbett; Publisher: TMH.
REFERENCE
1. Machine Design by R.L.Norton; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Schaum’s Outline of Machine Design; Publisher: TMH.
95
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech AE II Sem T T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11AME1102) STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS
UNIT I
Types of structures and loads
Introduction; Classification of structures; Loads; Structural Design.
Analysis of statically determinate structures
Idealized structures; Principle of superposition; Equations of equilibrium; Analysis of simple
diaphragm and shear wall systems; Maximum influence at a point due to a series of
concentrated loads.
UNIT II
Analysis of statically determinate trusses
Common types of trusses; Classification of coplanar trusses; The method of joints; Zero-
force members; The method of sections; Compound trusses; Complex trusses; Space
trusses.
UNIT III
Internal loading developed in structural members
Internal loading at a specified point; Shear and moment functions; Shear and moment
diagrams for a beam; Shear and moment diagrams for a frame; Moment diagrams
constructed by the method of superposition.
UNIT IV
Cables and Arches
Cables; cable subjected to concentrated loads; Cable subjected to a uniform distributed
load; Arches; Three-hinged arch.
UNIT V
Influence lines for statically determinate structures
Influence lines; Influence lines for beams; Qualitative influence lines; Influence lines for floor
girders; Influence lines for trusses; Live loads for bridges; Maximum influence at a point due
to a series of concentrated loads; Absolute maximum shear and moment; Overview of
applications for influence lines.
Deflections
Deflections of trusses by virtual work method
Overview of analysis of statically indeterminate structures
TEXT BOOK
Structural Analysis by R.C.Hibbeler; Publisher: Pearson Education
REFERENCE
Fundamentals of Structural Analysis by Kenneth M. Leet and Chia – Ming Uang; TMH.
Structural Analysis by Prakash Rao.
96
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech AE II Sem T T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11AME1103) AUTOMOTIVE CHASSIS AND SUSPENSION
UNIT I
Types of suspension and drive
General characteristics of wheel suspension; Independent wheel suspensions (general) –
Requirements, Double wishbone suspensions, McPherson struts and strut dampers, Rear
axle trailing-arm suspension, Semi-trailing-arm rear axles, and Multi-link suspension; Rigid
and semi-rigid crank axles - Rigid axles, and Semi rigid crank axles; Front-mounted engine,
rear-mounted drive - Advantages and disadvantages of the front-mounted engine,
rearmounted drive design, Non-driven front axles, and Driven rear axles; Rear and mid
engine drive; Front-wheel drive - Types of design, Advantages and disadvantages of front-
wheel drive, Driven front axles, and Non-driven rear axles;
UNIT II
Types of suspension and drive (contd)
Four-wheel drive - Advantages and disadvantages, Four-wheel drive vehicles with overdrive
Manual selection four-wheel drive on commercial and all-terrain vehicles, Permanent four-
wheel drive, basic passenger car with front-wheel drive, Permanent four-wheel drive, basic
standard design passenger car, and Summary of different kinds of four-wheel drive;
Overview of Tyres and wheels;
Overview of wheel travel and elastokinematics;
UNIT III
Steering
Steering system – Requirements, Steering system on independent wheel suspensions, and
Steering system on rigid axles; Rack and pinion steering - Advantages and disadvantages,
Configurations, Steering gear, manual with side tie rod take-off, Steering gear, manual with
centre tie rod take-off; Recirculating ball steering - Advantages and disadvantages, and
Steering gear; Power steering systems - Hydraulic power steering systems, Electro-
hydraulic power steering systems, and Electrical power steering systems; Steering column;
Steering damper; Steering kinematics - Influence of type and position of the steering gear,
Steering linkage configuration, Tie rod length and position
UNIT IV
Springing
Comfort requirements - Springing comfort, Running wheel comfort, and Preventing ‘front-
end shake’; Masses, vibration and spring rates; Weights and axle loads - Curb weight and
vehicle mass, Permissible gross vehicle weight and
Mass, Permissible payload, Design weight, Permissible axle loads, and Load distribution
according to IS0 2416; Springing curves - Front axle, Rear axle, Springing and cornering
behavior, and Diagonal springing; Spring types - Air- and gas-filled spring devices, Steel
97
springs, Stops and supplementary springs, and Anti-roll bars; Shock absorbers (suspension
dampers) - Types of fitting, Twin-tube shock absorbers, non-pressurized, Twin-tube shock
absorbers, pressurized, Monotube dampers, pressurized, Monotube dampers, non-
pressurized, Damping diagrams and characteristics, Damper attachments, and Stops and
supplementary springs; Spring/damper units; McPherson struts and strut dampers -
McPherson strut designs, Twin-tube McPherson struts, non-pressurized Twin-tube
McPherson struts, pressurized, and Damper struts; Variable damping
UNIT V
Chassis and vehicle overall
Vehicle and body centre of gravity - Centre of gravity and handling Properties, Calculating
the vehicle centre of Gravity, Axle weights and axle centres of Gravity, Body weight and
body centre of Gravity; Mass moments of inertia;
Braking behavior – Braking, Braking stability, Calculating the pitch angle, Influence of
radius-arm axes, Anti-dive control and brake reaction support angle; Traction behavior -
Drive-off from rest, Climbing ability, and Skid points; Platform, unit assembly and common
part systems
TEXTBOOK
The automotive chassis engineering principles by J. Reimpell, H. Stoll, J. W. Betzler;
Publisher: SAE International
REFERENCE
1. Automotive Chassis by P.M.Heldt; Publisher: Chilton
2. Automotive Chassis and Body by P.L.Kohli; Publisher: TMH
98
99
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech AE II sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MED1122) HEAT AND MASS TRANSFER
UNIT I
Introduction
Conduction heat transfer; Thermal conductivity; Convection heat transfer; Radiation heat
transfer; Dimensions and units.
Steady-state conduction – one dimension
Introduction; The plane wall; Insulation and R values; Radial systems; The overall heat–
transfer coefficient; Critical thickness of insulation; Heat-source systems; Cylinder with heat
sources; Conduction-convection systems; Fins; Thermal contact resistance.
UNIT II
Steady-state conduction
Introduction; Mathematical analysis of two-dimensional heat conduction; Graphical analysis;
The conduction shape factor; Numerical method of analysis; Overview of Numerical
formulation in terms of resistance elements.
Unsteady-state conduction
Introduction; Lumped-heat-capacity system; Transient heat flow in a semi-infinite solid;
Convection boundary conditions; Transient numerical method; Overview of thermal
resistance and capacity formulation.
UNIT III
Principles of convection
Introduction; Viscous flow; Inviscid flow; Laminar boundary layer on a flat plate; Energy
equation of the boundary layer; The thermal boundary layer; The relation between fluid
friction and heat transfer; Turbulent-boundary-layer heat transfer; Turbulent-boundary layer
Thickness; Overview of heat transfer in laminar tube flow, turbulent flow in a tube, and heat
transfer in high-speed flow.
Empirical and practical relations for forced convection heat transfer.
Natural convection systems
Introduction; Free-convection heat transfer on a vertical flat plate; Empirical relations for free
convection; Free convection from vertical plates and cylinders; Free convection from
horizontal cylinders; Free convection from horizontal plates; Free convection from inclined
surfaces; Introduction to non-newtonian fluids.
100
UNIT IV
Radiation heat transfer
Introduction; Physical mechanism; Radiation properties; Radiation shape factor; Relations
between shape factors; Heat exchange between nonblackbodies; Infinite parallel surfaces;
Radiation shields; Gas radiation.
UNIT V
Condensation and boiling heat transfer
Introduction; Condensation heat-transfer phenomena; The condensation number; Film
condensation inside horizontal tubes; Boiling heat transfer; Simplified relations for boiling
heat transfer with water.
Heat exchangers
Introduction; The overall heat-transfer coefficient; Fouling factors; Types of heat
exchangers; The log mean temperature difference; Effectiveness-NTU method, Overview of
compact heat exchangers, and heat exchanger design considerations.
Mass transfer
Introduction; Fick’s law of diffusion; Diffusion in gases; Diffusion in liquids and solids; The
mass-transfer coefficient; Evaporation processes in the atmosphere.
TEXT BOOK
Heat Transfer by J.P. Holman; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES
1. Heat Transfer by P.K. Nag.
2. Heat and Mass Transfer by Cengel; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
3. Schaum’s Outline of Heat Transfer; Publisher; TMH
101
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech AE II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11HAS1102) BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
UNIT I
Business and new economic environment
Characteristic features of business; Features and evaluation of sole proprietorship;
Partnership; Joint stock company; Public enterprises and their types; Changing business
environment in post- liberalization scenario.
UNIT II
Introduction to business economics, and demand analysis
Definition; Nature and scope of managerial economics - demand analysis determinants;
Law of demand and its exceptions.
Elasticity of demand and demand forecasting
Definition; Types; Measurement and significance of elasticity of demand; Demand
forecasting; Factors governing demand forecasting; Methods of demand forecasting -
survey methods, statistical methods, expert opinion method, test marketing, controlled
experiments, and judgmental approach to demand forecasting.
UNIT III
Cost analysis
Cost concepts - opportunity cost, fixed vs. variable costs, explicit costs vs. implicit costs,
and out of pocket costs vs. imputed costs; Break-even analysis (BEA) - determination of
break-even point (simple problems), managerial significance, and limitations of BEA.
Capital and capital budgeting
Capital and its significance; Types of capital; Estimation of fixed and working capital
requirements; Methods and sources of raising finance.
Nature and scope of capital budgeting; Features of capital budgeting proposals; Methods of
capital budgeting - payback method, accounting rate of return (ARR), and net present value
method (simple problems)
UNIT IV
Theory of production
Production function - isoquants and isocosts, least cost combination of inputs, and laws of
returns; Internal and external economics of scale.
Market structures
Types of competition; Features of perfect competition, monopoly, and monopolistic
competition; Price-output determination in case of perfect competition and monopoly.
102
Pricing policies and methods
Cost plus pricing; Marginal cost pricing; Sealed bid pricing; Going rate pricing, Limit pricing,
Market skimming pricing, Penetration pricing, Two-part pricing, Block pricing, Bundling
pricing, Peak load pricing, Cross subsidization.
UNI T V
Introduction to financial accounting
Double-entry book keeping; Journal; Ledger; Trial balance; Final accounts - trading account,
profit and loss account, and balance sheet with simple adjustments.
Financial analysis through ratios
Computation; Analysis and interpretation of liquidity ratios - current ratio, and quick ratio;
Activity ratios - inventory turnover ratio, and debtor turnover ratio; Capital structure ratios –
debt-equity ratio, and interest coverage ratio; Profitability ratios - gross profit ratio, net profit
ratio, operating ratio, P/E ratio, and EPs.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Managerial Economics and Financial Analysis by Aryasri, 2009; Publisher: Tata
McGraw Hill.
2. Managerial Economics by Varshney and Maheswari, 2009; Publisher: Sultan Chand.
REFERENCE
1. Financial Accounting for Management: An analytical perspective by Ambrish Gupta,
2010; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Managerial Economics by H. Craig Peterson and W. Cris Lewis; Publisher: Prentice
Hall of India.
103
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11MED1157) CAD/ CAM
OVERVIEW OF CAD/CAM SYSTEMS
UNIT I
CAD/CAM software
Introduction; Graphics standards; Basic definitions - data structure, database, database
management system (DBMS), database coordinate system, working coordinate system, and
screen coordinate system; Modes of graphics operations; User interface, Software modules
- operating system (OS) module, graphics module, applications module, programming
module, and communications module; Modeling and viewing; Software documentation;
Software development; Efficient use of CAD/CAM software; Software trends.
GEOMETRIC MODELING
UNIT II
Types and mathematical representations of curves
Introduction; wireframe models; Wireframe entities; Curve representation; Parametric
representation of analytic curves - review of vector algebra, lines, circles, ellipses,
parabolas, hyperbolas, and conics; Parametric representation of synthetic curves - hermite
cubic splines, Bezier curves, B-spline curves, and rational curves; Curve manipulations -
displaying, evaluating points on curves, blending, segmentation, trimming, intersection, and
transformation; Design and engineering applications; Graphics aids, graphics manipulations,
and editings;
Practice of flow charts on the above topics to aid in the development of CAD software.
UNIT III
Graphics aids
Graphics aids, graphics manipulations, and editings
Overview of Types and mathematical representations of surfaces
Overview of Types and mathematical representations of solids
Overview of CAD/CAM data exchange
COMPUTER AIDED MANUFACTURING
UNIT IV
Part programming and manufacturing
Introduction; Part production cycle; Manufacturing systems; Manufacturing
processes - removing processes, forming processes, deforming
processes, and joining processes; Integration requirements; Process planning -
manual approach, variant approach, generative approach, hybrid approach,
and geometric modeling for process planning; Part programming - fundamentals of NC,
Basics of NC programming , and NC programming languages; Overview of tool
104
path generation and verification.
UNIT V
Computer aided quality control
Introduction; Contact inspection methods; Noncontact inspection methods -
machine vision, scanning laser beam devices and photogrammetry; Overview
of Nonoptical-Noncontact inspection methods.
Computer aided manufacturing
Computer assisted process planning (CAPP); Group technology - methodology, steps
required for the execution of group technology, and group technology concepts; Computer
aided production management system (CAPMS); Materials requirement planning
(MRP)- master production schedule; Shop floor control system – shop floor control,
and functions of shop floor control; Overview of computer assisted production
scheduling; Overview of flexible manufacturing system; Overview of parts based
manufacturing information system.
TEXT BOOK
CAD/ CAM – THEORY and PRACTICE by Ibrahim Zeid; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
1. CAD/ CAM by Zimmer and Groover; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Computer Graphics by Harrington; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
105
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech.AE II sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11AME1202) AUTOMOTIVE ENGINES LAB II
1. Dismantling and assembly of LMV components as following:
a. Gear box b) clutch assembly c) Propeller shaft d) differential gear box e) rear axle f)
suspension system g) steering mechanism
2. Dismantling and assembly of door frames, door locks and window locks
3. study of driver’s seat layout in anyone LMV and anyone HMV.
4. Testing, servicing and charging of batteries.
5. Servicing of generator, alternator and starter motor with dismantling, testing, inspection
and assembly.
6. Servicing of ignition systems
7. Drawing of general electrical wiring diagrams of various vehicles {two and four wheelers}
8. Calibration of micrometer, measurement of plain plug, measurement of plain ring gauge,
taper gauge
9. Measurement of taper using sine bar and other instruments.
10. Measurement of base circle diameter and tooth thickness of spur and helical gears
11. Use of slip gauges, measurement of screw thread using screw thread micrometer, use
of comparators, experiments involving profile projectors.
Note: Driving practice of a geared two wheeler and anyone LMV for a minimum of 10 hours
during 5 th and 6th semester must be provided.
106
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech. AE II SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11MED1213) HEAT AND MASS TRANSFER LAB AND ADVANCED ENGLISH
LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
HEAT AND MASS TRANSFER LAB: Six experiments
1. Composite slab apparatus – Overall heat transfer co-efficient.
2. Heat transfer through lagged pipe.
3. Heat transfer through a concentric sphere
4. Thermal conductivity of given metal rod.
5. Heat transfer in pin-fin
6. Experiment on transient heat conduction
7. Heat transfer in forced convection : apparatus.
8. Heat transfer in natural convection
9. Parallel and counter flow heat exchanger.
10. Emissivity apparatus.
11. Stefan boltzman apparatus.
12. Heat transfer in drop and film wise condensation.
13. Critical Heat flux apparatus.
14. Study of heat pipe and its demonstration.
15. Study of Two – Phase flow.
ADVANCED ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
Introduction
This course aims to offer students a practical approach to Technical Writing, and provide a
relevant, contemporary and authoritative introduction to the dynamic field of technical
communication that prepares them for Workplace Communication. Each unit in the syllabus
is devised so as to include a writing component as well as an oral component.
The objectives of this course are to
i) expose students to workplace writing
ii) initiate them into the Process of Technical Communication
iii) to enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content
107
iv) enable students to produce documents reflecting different types of technical
communication such as Abstracts, Proposals and Technical Reports through
ample practice
v) enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific
target audience
vi) groom students in behavioral skills
Methodology
Writing Component
A Process- Genre methodology will be used in teaching the technical genres. This method
would enable students to understand the use of particular lexico-grammatical patterns
required of in the context of technical writing. They would learn to use language to express
the particular communicative intent that is required of in the context of writing these genres.
Oral Communication Component
The objective of including Oral Communication is to impart behavioral skills and prepare
students to speak to a large group or team, keeping in mind the audience, context and
purpose of communication. This Oral Communication component must enable students to
speak in an organized and mature way, without any inhibitions. They will be groomed to
relate their speech to their audience.
Objectives of Oral Communication Component
i) equip students with Behavioral skills
ii) prepare them for Oral presentations, and Group Discussions
iii) equip them with Interview skills
Syllabus Outline
UNIT I
1. Applications and Covering letters
2. Resume Writing
3. Oral Communication :Self Introduction
UNIT II
1. Introduction to Technical Writing
 Defining Technical Writing
 Distinguishing it from other types of writing
 Determining audience, purpose and context
2. Summarizing and Synthesizing Information
108
3. Behavioral Skills and Personality Development
(a) Building a positive attitude, building a positive personality, Motivation, goal setting,
values and vision
(b) Problem Solving and Decision Making; Negotiation Skills through Role Play
(c) Team Building and Leadership Abilities
UNIT III
1. Verbal Ability : language, reasoning skills, analytical ability, reading and listening skills
2. Oral Communication: Presentation Skills (Oral and Visual)
UNIT IV
1. Writing Research Abstracts
2. Oral Communication: Group Discussions
UNIT V
1. Writing Project Proposals
2. Writing Project Reports
3. Oral Communication: Interview Skills
REQUIRED TEXT BOOKS AND MATERIALS
1. Technical Writing: Process and Product by Sharon J. Gerson and Steven M.
Gerson (1999); Publisher: Prentice Hall.
2. Effective Technical Communication by Ashraf Rizvi, M., (2005); Publisher: Tata
Mc Graw Hill.
3. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical
Communication: A Reader-Centered Approach (5th ed.) (pp. 457-473). Boston:
Heinle.
REFERENCE
1. Technical Communication by Rebecca E. Burnett, 5th edition (2001); Publisher:
Thomson/Wadsworth
2. Technical Communication: A Practical Approach (7th ed.) by William S. Pfeiffer;
Publisher: Person education
3. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies by Mike Markel (2006-2007);
Publisher: Bedford/ St. Martins.
4. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Three Types of Special Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's
Technical Communication: A Reader-Centered Approach (5th ed..) (pp. 474-513).
Boston:Heinle.
5. Bolter, Jay David (2001), “The Late Age of Print” in Robert P. Yagelski's
Literacies and Technologies: A Reader for Contemporary Writers (135-145);
Publisher: Longman.
109
6. Brandt, Deborah. (1998) Sponsors of literacy. College Composition and
Communication 49.2, 165-185.
7. Burnett, Rebecca, E. (2001) “Locating and Recording Information” in Rebecca E.
Burnett's Technical Communication (pp. 164-195).
8. Johnson-Sheehan, Richard (2007). “Starting Your Career” in Richard Johnson-
Sheehan's Technical Communication Today (2nd ed.) (pp. 388-402). New York:
Longman.
9. Business Correspondence and Report Writing by R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan,
Third Edition (2002); Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
10. Technical Communication: Principles and Practices by M. Raman and S. Sharma
(Indian edition; 2004); Publisher: Oxford University Press.
110
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME I SEM L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11HAS1103) MANAGEMENT SCIENCE
UNIT I
Introduction to management
Concepts of management - nature, importance, and functions of management; Taylor’s
scientific management theory; Fayol’s principles of management; Mayo’s Hawthorne
experiments; Maslow’s theory of human needs; Douglas McGregor’s theory X and theory Y;
Herzberg’s two-factor theory of motivation; System and contingency approach to
management; Planning – meaning, significance, and types of plans; Decision making and
steps in decision making process; Leadership styles; Social responsibilities of management.
Organizing - Meaning, and features; Process of organization; Principles of organization;
Elements of organization; Organization chart; Span of control - Graicunas formulae;
Centralisation and decentralization; Types of mechanistic and organic structures of
organisation - line organization, line and staff organization, functional organization,
committee organization, matrix organization, virtual organisation, cellular organisation, team
structure, boundaryless organization, inverted pyramid structure, and lean and flat
organization structure; Their merits, demerits and suitability.
UNIT II
Human resources management
Concepts of HRM;
Basic functions of HR manager - human resource planning (definition; objectives; process),
recruitment (definition; sources; techniques), selection (definition; process), induction and
orientation, training and development (definition; need; methods), employee exit process,
employee relations management, employee compensation and benefits administration, job
evaluation (objectives; process; methods), and performance appraisals (objectives; process;
methods).
UNIT III
Strategic management
Mission; Goals; Objectives; Policy; Strategy; Programmes; Elements of corporate planning
process - environmental scanning; value chain analysis, BCG matrix, generic strategy
alternatives, SWOT analysis, and steps in strategy formulation and implementation; Balance
score card; Capability maturity model (CMM)/ People capability maturity model (PCMM).
111
UNIT IV
Operations management
Plant location; Types of plant layout; Methods of production – job, batch, and mass
production; Work study-basic procedure involved in method study and work measurement.
Materials management
Objectives; Need for inventory control; EOQ, ABC Analysis; Purchase procedure; Value
analysis; JIT, Six sigma; TQM; Supply chain management; Stores management and stores
records.
Marketing
Functions of marketing; Marketing mix, and marketing strategies based on product life cycle;
Channels of distribution.
UNIT V
Project management – network analysis
Network analysis; Programme evaluation review technique - PERT (probability of
completing the project within given time); Critical path method - CPM (Identifying critical
path); Project cost analysis; Project crashing; Simple problems.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Management Science by Aryasri; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill, 2009.
2. Management by James Arthur, Finch Stoner, R. Edward Freeman, and Daniel R.
Gilbert 6th Ed; Publisher: Pearson Education/ Prentice Hall.
3. Principles and Practice of Management - L.M. Prasad; Publisher: Sultan Chand
Publications, New Delhi.
REFERENCE
1. Principles of Marketing: A South Asian Perspective by Kotler Philip, Gary Armstrong,
Prafulla Y. Agnihotri, and Eshan ul Haque , 2010, 13th Edition, Publisher: Pearson
Education/ Prentice Hall of India.
2. A Handbook of Human Resource Management Practice by Michael Armstrong, 2010;
Publisher: Kogan Page Publishers.
3. Quantitative Techniques in Management by N.D. Vohra, 4th edition, 2010; Publisher:
Tata McGraw Hill.
4. Operations Management: Theory and Practice by B. Mahadevan, 2010; Publisher:
Pearson Education.
5. Strategic Management by V.S.P.Rao and V.Hari Krishna, 2010; Publisher: Excel
Books.
112
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
VI Year B.Tech AE I Sem T T/P/D C
Elective I 4 0 4
(R11AME1104) ALTERNATIVE FUELS FOR AUTOMOBILES
UNIT I
An Overview
Introduction-classification of alternative fuels and drive trains-scenario of conventional auto
fuels-oil reserves of the world-fuel quality aspects related to emissions –technological up
gradations required Need for alternative fuels –regulatory frame work for CNG/LPg vehicles
in India- Third – party inspection check list for alternative fuels vehicles-comparsion of
alternative fuel technologies – business driving factors for alternative fuels –implementation
barriers for alternative fuels –Stakeholders of alternative fuels –
Road map for alternative fuels-AFV development world wide.
UNIT II
Compressed Natural Gas (CNG)
Introduction-History of CNG-Production of CNG-Properties of CNG-CNG storage –piping for
CNG-Advantages and Disadvantages of CNG-CNG dispensing systems-CNG
transportation-Material compatibility for CNG-CNG fuel kits-Engine modifications for CNG
operations- CNG combustion-
stoichiometric vs. Lean burn CNG engines-Engine optimization- vehicle emission from CNG
– after treatment of CNG exhaust – CNG fuelling station safety systems- CNG standards
and regulations- Third party inspection for alternative fuels vehicles. CNG vehicles wide –
CNG scenario in India.
UNIT III
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG)
Introduction-history LNG-Production of LNG-properties-economics of LNG-Advantages and
Disadvantages- transportation and storage of LNG-piping for LNG- LNG dispensers- LNG to
CNG conversion system-regulations for LNG- LNG vehicle world wide vehicle performance
characteristics for LNG- vehicle emissions from LNG- LNG India.
Liquefied petroleum Natural Gas (LPG)
Introduction – History of LPG- Production of LPG- properties, Storage of LPG- Dispensing of
LPG- LPG nozzles and receptacles- material compatibility for LPG- Piping, safety systems
and transportation of LPG- Advantages and disadvantages of LPG- LPG engine
developments- LPG fuel kits and combustion, Emission from LPG- LPG Standards– LPG
vehicle world wide– LPG scenario in India
UNIT IV
Liquefied Hydrogen
Properties of Hydrogen- Production of hydrogen- photochemical production of Hydrogen-
Algal production of Hydrogen (Bio Hydrogen)-On- board storage of Hydrogen-metal
hydrates -compressed hydrogen gas-activates carbon storage- Hazards with LH2–
Advantages and disadvantages of LH2– vehicle emissions from LH2– BMW liquid hydrogen
cars – liquid hydrogen in India.
Bio-Fuels
113
Bio gas-Methanol- Ethanol-Butanol-straight vegerable oil bio diesels - properties production
– storage methods power densities advantages and disadvantages over conventional fuels
– specific deign criteria use in automobiles.
UNIT V
Electric vehicles
Introduction- batteries electric vehicle-components of EV- EV batteries- EV charges- EV
drives – EV tractive force EV transmission EV motor desing – EV Power devices and
controllers-Advantages and Disadvantages –performance characteristics-testing
Fuel cell power vehicles
Fuel cell vehicle-Benefits of fuel cells for automotive industry- Basics, efficiency and types of
fuel cells-Fuel cell options for fuel cell vehicle-fuel reguLations- Fuel cell hybrid vehicle- Fuel
cell solar vehicle, Solar photovoltaic cell, Solar car electrical system and drive train, solar
array-solar car body and chassis, Hybrid gas turbine EV, Nuclear car-road map for
alternative power trains.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Alternative fuels/SS Thipse/JAICO publishers/2010
2. Alternative fuel technology/Erjavec,Arias/Yesdee publications/2009
REFERENCES
1. A Text Book of Alternative Fuel of Automobile Engine, Ramireddy and Yousuf, Front
line publishers
2. The complete Idiot’s Guide to Hybrid and Alternative Fuel Vehicles by Jack R.Nerad.
3. Hybrid and Alternative Fuel Vehicles (New Edition) by James D. Halderman
4. Powering your vehicle with straight vegetable Oil by Forest Gregg.
114
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech. AE I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective I 4 0 4
(R11AME1105) VEHICLE DYNAMICS
UNIT I
Introduction
General issues in vehicle dynamics; Vehicle system classification; Dynamic system;
Classification of dynamic system models; Constraints, generalized coordinates, and
degrees of freedom; Discrete and continuous systems; Vibration analysis;
Elements of vibrating systems - spring elements, potential energy of linear springs,
equivalent springs (springs in parallel; springs in series), mass or inertia elements and
damping elements (viscous damping; coulomb damping; structural or hysteretic damping;
combination of damping elements);
Review of dynamics - Newton's laws of motion, kinematics of rigid bodies, linear
momentum, principle of conservation of linear momentum, angular momentum, equations of
motion for a rigid body, angular momentum of a rigid body, principle of work and energy,
conservation of energy; principle of impulse and momentum, mechanical systems,
translational systems, rotational systems, translation and rotational systems, angular
momentum and moments of inertia, and geared systems;
Lagrange's equation - degrees of freedom, generalized coordinates, overview of virtual
work, D'Alembert's principle, generalized force, Lagrange's equations of motion, Holonomic
systems, Nonholonomic systems, and Rayleigh's dissipation function.
UNIT II
Analysis of Dynamic Systems
Introduction; Classification of Vibrations;
Classification of Deterministic Data - sinusoidal periodic data, complex periodic data, almost
periodic data, and transient nonperiodic data;
Linear Dynamic Systems - linear single-degree-of-freedom system, free vibration of a
single-degree-of-freedom system, forced vibration of a single-degree-of-freedom system,
linear multiple-degrees-of-freedom system, eigenvalues and eigenvectors (undamped and
damped systems), and forced vibration solution of a multiple-degreesof-freedom system;
Nonlinear Dynamic Systems - exact methods for nonlinear systems, approximate methods
for nonlinear systems (iterative method, ritz averaging method, perturbation method, and
variation of parameter method);
Graphical Method - phase plane representation, phase velocity, and pell's method and
multiple-degrees-of-freedom systems;
Random Vibrations - probability density function, and autocorrelation function;
Gaussian Random Process - Fourier analysis (Fourier series; Fourier integral), response of
a single-degree-of-freedom vibrating system (impulse response method; frequency
response method), power spectral density function, joint probability density function, cross-
correlation function, application of power spectral densities to vehicle dynamics, response of
a single-degree-of-freedom system to random inputs, and response of multiple-degrees-of-
freedom systems to random inputs;
115
UNIT III
Tire dynamics
Introduction; Vertical dynamics of tires - vertical stiffness and damping characteristics of
tires, vertical vibration mechanics models of tires (point contact model of tires; fixed contact
patch model of tires; time-varying contact patch model of tires), and enveloping
characteristics of tires;
Tire longitudinal dynamics - tire rolling resistance, rolling resistance of the tire with toe-in,
rolling resistance of the turning wheel, longitudinal adhesion coefficient, and theoretical
model of tire longitudinal force under driving and braking;
Tire lateral dynamics - tire cornering characteristics, mathematical model of the tire
cornering characteristic (simplified mathematical model of the tire cornering characteristic;
cornering characteristic with lateral bending deformation of the tire case), and rolling
properties of tires (cambered tire models; cambered tire model with roll elasticdeformation of
the tire carcass);
Tire mechanics model considering longitudinal slip and cornering characteristics - C.G. Gim
theoretical model, K.H. Guo tire model (steady-state simplified theoretical tire model;
nonsteady-state semi-empirical tire mechanics model), and H.B. Pacejka magic formula
model.
UNIT IV
Ride dynamics
Introduction;
Vibration environment in road vehicles - vibration sources from the road (power spectral
density in spatial frequency; power spectral density in temporal frequency), vehicle internal
vibration sources (vibration sources from the powerplant; vibration sources from the
driveline; vibration sources from the exhaust system;
Vehicle ride models - quarter car model (modeling for the quarter car model; modal analysis
for the quarter car model; dynamic analysis for the quarter car model), bounce-pitch model,
and other modeling;
Seat evaluation and modeling – introduction, seat value, seat velocity, linear seat modeling
and transmissibility, and nonlinear seat modeling and transmissibility.
UNIT V
(Contd) Ride dynamics
Discomfort evaluation and human body model - discomfort and subjective evaluation,
objective evaluation of ride discomfort (weighted root-mean-square method, objective
evaluation by the vibration dose value), linear human body modeling, objective evaluation
by nonlinear seat-human body modeling;
Active and semi-active control – introduction, basic control concepts, active control, and
semi-active control.
TEXT BOOK
Road Vehicle Dynamics by Rao Dukkipati, Jian Pang, Mohamad Qatu, Gang Sheng, and
Shuguang Zuo; Publisher: SAE International.
116
REFERENCE
Mechanics of Pneumatic Tyre by S.K.Clark; Publisher: Prentice Hall
117
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE I sem L T/P/D C
Elective I 4 0 4
(R11MED1124) AUTOMATION IN MANUFACTURING
UNIT I
Introduction
Production systems; Automation in production systems; Manual labor in production
systems; Automation principles and strategies.
Manufacturing operations
Manufacturing industries and products; Manufacturing operations; Product facilities;
Product/production relationships; Lean production.
Manufacturing models and metrics
Mathematical models of production performance; Manufacturing costs.
AUTOMATION AND CONTROL TECHNOLOGIES
UNIT II
Introduction to automation
Basic elements of an automated system; Advanced automation functions; Levels of
automation.
Industrial control systems
Process industries versus discrete manufacturing industries; Continuous versus discrete
control; Computer process control.
Hardware components for automation and process control
Sensors; Actuators; Analog-to-digital converters; Digital-to-Analog converters; Input / Output
devices for discrete data.
MATERIAL HANDLING AND IDENTIFICATION TECHNOLOGIES
UNIT III
Material transport systems
Introduction to material handling equipment; Material transport equipment; Analysis of
material transport systems.
Storage systems
Storage system performance and storage location strategies; Conventional storage
methods and equipment; Automated storage systems; Engineering analysis of storage
systems.
Automatic identification and data capture
Overview of automatic identification methods; Bar code technology; Radio frequency
identification; Other AIDC Technologies
118
MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS
UNIT IV
Introduction to manufacturing systems
Components of a manufacturing system; Classification of manufacturing systems; Overview
of the classification scheme;
Single-station manufacturing cells
Single station manned workstations; Single station automated cells; Applications single
station cells; Analysis of single station cells.
Manual assembly lines
Fundamentals of manual assembly lines; Analysis of single model assembly lines; Line
balancing algorithms; Mixed model assembly lines; Workstation considerations.
Other considerations in assembly line design
Alternative assembly systems.
UNIT V
Automated production lines
Fundamentals of automated production lines; Applications of automated production lines;
Analysis of transfer lines.
Automated assembly systems
Fundamentals of automated assembly systems; Quantitative analysis of assembly systems.
TEXT BOOK
Automation, Production Systems and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing by Mikell P.
Groover; Publisher: Pearson/ Prentice Hall.
REFERENCE
1. Computer Aided Manufacturing by Tien-Chien Chang, Richard A.Wysk and Hsu-Pin
Wang; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Automation by W.Buekinsham.
119
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech. AE I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective I 4 0 4
(R11MED1126) ADVANCED MECHANISM DESIGN
UNIT I
Introduction to kinematics and mechanisms
Introduction; Motion; The four-bar linkage; The science of relative motion; Kinematic
diagrams; Six-bar chains; Degrees of freedom; Analysis versus synthesis.
UNIT II
Introduction to kinematic synthesis: graphical and linear analytical methods
Introduction; Tasks of kinematic synthesis; Number synthesis - the associated linkage
concept; Tools of dimensional synthesis; Graphical synthesis-motion generation - two
prescribed positions; Graphical synthesis - motion generation - three prescribed positions;
Graphical synthesis for path generation - three prescribed positions; Path generation with
prescribed timing - three prescribed positions.
UNIT III
(Contd…) Introduction to kinematic synthesis: graphical and linear analytical methods
Graphical synthesis for path generation (without prescribed timing) - four positions; Function
generator - three precision points; The overlay method; Analytical synthesis techniques;
Complex number modeling in kinematic synthesis; The dyad or standard form; Number of
prescribed positions versus number of free choices; Three prescribed positions for motion,
path and function generation.
UNIT IV
(Contd…) Introduction to kinematic synthesis: graphical and linear analytical methods
Three–precision-point synthesis program for four–bar linkages; Three–precision-point
synthesis - analytical versus graphical; Extension of three-precision-point synthesis to
multiloop mechanisms; Circle-point and center–point circles; Ground-pivot specification;
Freudenstein’s equation for three-point function generation; Loop-closure-equation
technique; Order synthesis - four-bar function generation.
UNIT V
Kinematic synthesis of linkages - advanced topics
Introduction; Motion generation with four prescribed positions; Solution procedure for four
prescribed positions; Computer program for four prescribed precision points; Four
prescribed motion-generation positions - superposition of two three-precision-point cases;
Special cases of four-position synthesis; Motion generation - five positions; Solution
procedure for five prescribed positions.
120
TEXT BOOK
Advanced Mechanism Design: Analysis and Synthesis (Volume 2) by George N. Sandor
and Arthur G. Erdman; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
REFERENCE
1. Machines and Mechanisms by Pennock, Uickker, and Shigley
2. Design of Machinery by R.L.Norton
121
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective II 4 0 4
(R11MED1128) THEORY OF ELASTICITY AND PLASTICTY
UNIT I
Introduction
Elasticity; Stress; Notation for forces and stresses; Components of stress; Components of
strain; Hooke’s law; Index notation; Plane stress; Plane strain; Stress at a point; Strain at a
point; Measurement of surface strains; Construction of Mohr strain circle for strain rosette;
Differential equations of equilibrium; Boundary conditions; Compatibility equations; Stress
functions.
UNIT II
Two-dimensional problems in rectangular coordinates
Solution by polynomials; End effects; Saint–Venant’s principle; Determination of
displacements; Bending of a cantilever loaded at the end; Bending of a beam by uniform
load, Other cases of continuously loaded beams; Solution of the two dimensional problems
in the form of a Fourier series; Other applications of Fourier series - Gravity loading; End
effects - Eigen solutions.
UNIT III
Two dimensional problems in polar coordinates
General equations in polar coordinates; Stress distribution symmetrical about an axis; Pure
bending of curved bars; Strain components in polar coordinates; Displacements for
symmetrical stress distributions; Rotating disks; Bending of a curved bar by a force at the
end; Edge dislocation; The effect of circular holes on stress distributions in plates.
UNIT IV
(contd) Two dimensional problems in polar coordinates
Concentrated force at a point of a straight boundary; Any vertical loading of a straight
boundary; Force acting on the end of a wedge; Bending couple acting on the end of a
wedge, Concentrated force acting on a beam; Stresses in a circular disk; Force at a point of
an infinite plate; Generalized solution of the two-dimensional problem in polar coordinates;
Applications of the generalized solution in polar coordinates; A wedge loaded along the
faces; Eigen solutions for wedges and notches.
UNIT V
Equations of plastic state
On the mechanical properties of solids - change in density and change in shape of a solid,
elastic and plastic deformation, strain hardening, strain anisotropy, effect of strain rate, and
creep; On the experimental study of plastic deformations under combined stresses - simple
and complex loading – on experiments, and simple and complex loading; On yield
conditions - yield surface and yield curve; The constant maximum shearing stress condition
(Tresca-Saint Venant condition); The constant shearing stress intensity condition (Von
122
Mises condition); On strain hardening conditions - loading surface - loading and unloading,
loading surface, and unloading; Conditions of isotropic strain hardening - simple variant of
the condition of isotropic strain hardening, “unique curve” hypothesis, energy condition of
strain hardening, and Odquist’s condition; Theory of plastic flow.
TEXT BOOK
For elasticity part:
Theory of Elasticity by S.P. Timoshenko and J.N. Goodier; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
For plasticity part:
Fundamentals of Theory of Plasticity by L.M.Kachanov; Publisher: Mir Publisher.
123
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective II 4 0 4
(R11MED1129) ROBOTICS
UNIT I
Introduction
Brief history; Types of robots; Technology of robots; Basic principles in robotics; Notation;
Symbolic computation and numerical analysis.
Mathematical representation of robots
Introduction; Position and orientation of a rigid body – some properties of rotation matrices,
successive rotations of a rigid body, representation of orientation by three angles, and other
representations of orientation; Transformation between coordinate systems-homogeneous
transformation; properties of BA[T]; Representation of joints-rotary joint, prismatic joint, screw
joint, cylindrical joint, spherical joint, spherical-spherical joint pair, and other joints;
Representation of links using Denavit-Hartenberg – link parameters for intermediate links,
and first and last links; Link transformation matrices-applications-the planar 3R manipulator,
the puma 560 manipulator, and a scara manipulator, the planar four-bar mechanism, a
three-DOF parallel manipulator; Homogeneous coordinates, lines, screws and twists.
UNIT II
Kinematics of serial manipulators
Introduction; Degrees of freedom of a manipulator; Direct kinematics of serial manipulators -
the planar 3R manipulator, the PUMA 560 manipulator; and a SCARA manipulator; Inverse
kinematics of serial manipulators - the planar 3R manipulator, and the PUMA 560
manipulator; Manipulator with non-intersecting wrist; Inverse kinematics of a general 6R
robot; Inverse kinematics for manipulators with n<6; Inverse kinematics of redundant
manipulators; Solution methods for non-linear equations.
UNIT III
Kinematics of parallel manipulators
Introduction; Degrees of freedom; Loop-closure constraint equations; Direct kinematics of
parallel manipulators - the planar four-bar mechanism, a three-DOF parallel manipulator,
and a six-DOF parallel manipulator; Direct kinematics of Stewart-Gough platform; Mobility of
parallel manipulators - the planar four-bar mechanism, and a three-DOF parallel
manipulator; Inverse kinematics of parallel manipulators - a six-DOF hybrid manipulator, and
the Stewart platform.
124
Velocity analysis and statics of manipulators
Introduction; Linear and angular velocities of a rigid body; Linear and angular velocities of
links in serial manipulators - the planar 3R manipulator; Serial manipulator Jacobian;
Parallel manipulator Jacobians - the planar four-bar mechanism and a three-DOF parallel
manipulator, Statics of serial manipulators - the planar 3R manipulator; Statics of parallel
manipulators.
UNIT IV
Dynamics of manipulators
Introduction; Inertia of a link; The Lagrangian formulation - equations of motion of a planar
2R manipulator, and equations of motion of a planar four-bar mechanism; Dynamic
equations in cartesian space; Inverse dynamics of manipulators - inverse dynamics of
planar 2R manipulator; Simulation of equations of motion - simulation of a planar 2R
manipulator, and simulation of a planar four-bar mechanism.
Trajectory planning and generation - Introduction; Joint space schemes - a cubic trajectory;
Joint space schemes with via points - a cubic trajectory with a via point, and a cubic
trajectory with matching velocity, and acceleration at a via point; Cartesian space schemes-
cartesian straight line motion, cartesian circular motion, and trajectory planning for
orientation; Additional issues;
UNIT V
Position and force control of manipulators
Introduction; Feedback control of a single-link manipulator – usefulness of feedback, first-
order system, second-order system, PID control of a single-link manipulator, and digital
control of a single-link manipulator; PID control of a multi-link manipulator; Non-linear control
of manipulators-time required to compute the model; Lack of knowledge of model
parameters; Simulation and experimental results - simulation results, and experimental
results; Non-linear control of constrained and parallel manipulators; Cartesian control of
manipulators; Force control of manipulators - Force control of a single mass, and
partitioning a task for force and position control- case study: peg-in-hole assembly.
Overview of robot actuators and feedback components
TEXT BOOK
Robotics: Fundamental Concepts and Analysis by Ashitava Ghosal; Publisher: Oxford
University Press.
REFERENCE
1. Robot Dynamics and Control by M.W.Sponge and M.Vidyasagar; Publisher: John
Wiley.
125
2. Introduction to Robotic Mechanics and Control by JJ Craig; Publisher: Pearson
education.
3. Robotics by K.S.Fu; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
4. Industrial Robotics by M.P.Groover; Publisher: Pearson Education.
126
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE I Sem T T/P/D C
Elective II 4 0 4
(R11EEE1134) AUTOMOTIVE ELECTRICAL AND AUTOTRONICS
UNIT I
STORAGE BATTERY
Principles of lead acid cells and their characteristics. construction and working of lead acid
battery. types of batteries, testing of batteries, effect of temperature on capacity and voltage,
battery capacity, voltage, efficiency, charging of batteries, sulphation and desulphation,
maintenance and servicing. Fault diagnosis. New developments in electrical storage.
CHARGING SYSTEM
Principle of generation of direct current. Principle, construction and working of alternator
generating systems. Maintenance, servicing and trouble shooting. Bosch compact
alternator:
UNIT II
IGNITION SYSTEM
Conventional ignition system and study of its components. Types of ignition systems, spark
advance and retarding mechanisms. Types of spark plugs, ignition timing, maintenance,
servicing and fault diagnosis. Electronic ignition systems, programmed ignition, distributor-
less ignition.
STARTER MOTOR
Construction and working of series and shunt automotive starter motor, types of device
arrangement, solenoid switches, starter motor troubles and repairs.
Electronic controls of carburetion: component of fuel injection systems, multipoint injection.
Bosch L-variation electronic control diesel fuel injection.
UNIT III
WIRING FOR AUTO ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS
Earth return and insulated return systems, six volt and twelve volt systems, fusing of circuits,
low and high voltage automotive cables, wiring diagram for typical automotive wiring
systems, maintenance and servicing.
DASH BOARD UNITS AND ELECTRICAL ACCESSORIES
Principle of automobile illumination, head lamp construction and wiring, horn, wind screen
wiper signaling devices, fog lamps, auxiliary lighting , temperature gauge, oil pressure
gauge, fuel gauge, speedometer, odometer.
127
UNIT IV
NUMBER SYSTEM CODES AND DATA REPRESENTATION
Binary numbers, number base conversion, decimal, octal and hexa-decimal numbers, BCD
codes, memory representation of positive and negative integers, conversion real numbers.
floating point notations and representations of floating point numbers, binary arithmetics,
addition and subtraction of binary numbers, ones and two’s complement method.,
UNIT V
LOGIC GATES, ARITHMETIC CIRCUITS AND INTRODUCTION TO
MICROPROCESSORS
Study of basic and universal logic gates, study of X-OR and X-NOR gates. flip flop, S-R, S-J
flip flop and counters and shift resistance, half adders and subtractors.
TEXTBOOKS
1. Automotive Electrical auxiiajy systems,By N. R. Khatawale
2. Digital Logic and Computer Design by Mano, Prentice Hall of India
REFERENCES
I. Automotive Electrical systems,By Young and Griffith, Butterworth
2 Basic automotive electrical systems,By C.P.Nakra, Dhanpat Rai.
3. Automotive mechanics,By William H. Grouse, TMH
4. Modem Electrical Equipments,By A. W. Judge,
5. Automotive Electrical Equipment,By P.L. Kohli, TMH
128
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech. AE I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective II 4 0 4
(R11MED1132) ADVANCED MACHINE DESIGN
UNIT I
Load determination
Introduction; Loading classes; Free-body diagrams; Loads analysis – three dimensional
analysis, two dimensional analysis, and static load analysis; Two-dimensional static loading
case studies – case study 1A – bicycle break lever loading analysis, case study 2A – hand
operated crimping – tool loading analysis, case study 3A – automobile scissors – jack
loading analysis; Three-Dimensional, static loading case study – case study 4A – bicycle
break arm loading analysis; Dynamic loading case study – case study 5A – four bar linkage
loading analysis; Vibration loading – natural frequency, dynamic forces, and case study 5b –
four bar linkage dynamic loading measurement; Impact loading – energy method; Beam
loading – shear and moment, Singularity functions, and Superposition.
UNIT II
Static failure theories
introduction; Failure of ductile materials under static loading – the Von Mises-Hencky or
distortion-energy theory, the maximum shear-stress theory, maximum normal-stress theory,
and comparison of experimental data with failure theories; Failure of brittle materials under
static loading – even and uneven materials, the Colomb-Mohr theory, the modified-Mohr
theory, fracture-mechanics – fracture mechanics theory, fracture toughness Kc; Using the
static-loading failure theories; Case studies in static failure analysis – case study 1C –
bicycle break lever failure analysis, case study 2C – crimping – tool failure analysis, case
study 3C – automobile scissors – jack failure analysis, and case study 4C – bicycle break
arm factors of safety
UNIT III
Fatigue failure theories
Introduction - history of fatigue failure; Mechanism of fatigue failure – crack-initiation stage,
crack propagation stage, and fracture; Fatigue-failure models – fatigue regimes, the stress-
life approach, the strain-life approach, the LEFM approach; Machine design considerations;
Fatigue loads – rotating machinery loading, and service equipment loading.
UNIT IV
Surface failure
Introduction; Surface geometry; Mating surfaces; Friction – effect of roughness on friction,
effect of velocity on friction, rolling friction, and effect of lubricant on friction; Adhesive wear
– the adhesive wear coefficient; Abrasive wear – abrasive materials, and abrasion-resistant
materials; Corrosion wear – corrosion fatigue, and fretting corrosion; Surface fatigue;
Spherical contact – contact pressure and contact patch in spherical contact, static stress
distributions in spherical contact; Cylindrical contact - contact pressure and contact patch in
parallel cylindrical contact, and static stress distributions in parallel cylindrical contact;
129
General contact - contact pressure and contact patch in general contact, and stress
distribution in general contact; Dynamic contact stresses – effect of sliding component on
contact stresses.
UNIT V
Design case studies
Introduction; Case study 7 – A portable air compressor – case study 7a – preliminary design
of a compressor drive train; Case study 8 – A hay-bale lifter – Case study 8a – preliminary
design of a winch lift; Case study 9 – A cam – testing machine – case study 9a - preliminary
design of a cam dynamic text fixture (CDTF)
TEXT BOOK
Machine Design: Integrated Approach by Robert L. Norton; Publisher: Pearson Education.
REFERENCE
1. Mechanical Engineering Design (SI edition) by J.E. Shigley; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Mechanical Engineering Design (SI edition) by J.E.Shigley and Mischke.
3. Mechanical Engineering Design (International edition) by J.E.Shigley, Mischke, and
Budynas; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
4. Mechanical Engineering Design (International edition) by J.E.Shigley, Mischke,
R.G.Budynas, and K.J.Nisbett; Publisher: TMH.
130
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective III 4 0 4
(R11AME1106) VEHICLE TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT
UNIT I
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND
Introduction, the growth of a network, trams, trolley buses, private car’s subsidies.
THE INFRASTRUCTURE
Road, Approach Road. Highways National, State, District, traffic condition, relief of
congestion, pedestrians, zebra lines, margins, shopping centers. Bus-stops. shelters. Bus
stations. Garages layout of premises, equipment, use of machinery, conveyance of staff,
facilities for passengers. Maintenance, preventive, breakdown, overhauling, major, minor.
UNIT II
ORGANISATION AND MANAGEMENT
Forms of ownership, principle of transport, management, internal organization, centralized
condition, decentralized condition (Engineering, traffic and administration), staff
administration: industrial relation, administration, recruitment and training, welfare, health
and safety.
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISIONS
Dissemination of information, maintaining goodwill- handling complaints, traffic advisory,
committees- local contractors co-operation with the press news and articles-, facilities for
visitors- forms of publicity importance of quality, inter departmental liaison advertisements,
signs,, notice and directions general appearance of premises, specialized publicity.
UNIT III
PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS
Emphasis of safe driving-annual awards bonus encouragement vehicle design platform,
layout, location of steps, scheduled route hazards records elimination of accident prone
devices.
ROUTE PLANNING
Source of traffic, town planning. turning points, stopping places, shelters survey of route
preliminary schedule test runs elimination of hazards factors affecting. Frequency direction
of traffic flow estimated traffic possibility single verses double deck.
TIMING, BUS WORKING AND SCHEDULES
Time table layout uses of flat graph method of presentation preparation of vehicle and crew
schedule preparation of the duty roster, co-operation with employers use of the vehicle
131
running numbering determination of vehicle efficiency, checking efficiency of crew, duty
arrangements.
UNIT IV
FARE COLLECTIONS SYSTEMS
Principles of collection the way bill, bell punch system reduced ticket stocks wilk brew
system T.l.M and straight /M/C/S. The verometer lenson parason coach tickets exchanges,
box system personal and common stock flat fare platform, control.
THE FARE STRUCTURE
Basis of fares historical background effects of competition and control calculating average
zone system straight and tapered scale elastic and inelastic demand coordination of fares
concessions fares changes for workman. Anomalies double booking inter availability
through booking and summation private hire charges.
UNIT V
OPERATING COST AND TYPES OF VEHICLES
Classification costs, average speed running costs supplementary costs depreciation
obsolescence, life of vehicles sinking fund factor affecting post per vehicles mile incidence
of wages and overheads 100 seats miles basis, average seating capacity vehicles size and
spread overs, types of vehicle economic considerations authorization of trolley, bus
services, statuary procedure taxes and hire cars.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Bus Operation, L.D. Kitchen, Cliffe and Sons.
2. Bus and Coach Operation, Rex W. Faulks, Butterworth Version Of 1987
REFERENCES
1. Compendium of Transport Terms, CIRT, Pune
2. M.V. Act 1988 Central Law Agency, Allahabad
3. The Elements Of Transportation,R.J. Eaton
4. Goods Vehicle Operation, By C.S. Dubbar
5. Road Transport Law — L.D.Kitchen
6. Compendium Of Transport Terms CIRT, Pune (Report
7. M.V .Act 1988, Pub Central Law Agency, Allahabad.
132
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective III 4 0 4
(R11MED1133) MECHATRONICS
UNIT I
Introduction
Scope of mechatronics; Systems; Measurement systems; Control systems, Microprocessor-
based controllers; Response of systems; The mechatronics approach.
Sensors and transducers
Introduction; Performance terminology, Displacement, position and proximity; Velocity and
motion; Force; Fluid pressure; Liquid flow; Liquid level; Temperature; Light sensors;
Selection of sensors; Inputting data by switches.
UNIT II
Signal conditioning
Introduction; The operational amplifier; Protection; Filtering, Wheatstone bridge; Digital
signals; Multiplexers; Data acquisition; Digital signal processing; Pulse modulation.
Data presentation systems
Displays; Data presentation elements; Magnetic recording; Data acquisition systems;
Measurement systems, Testing and calibration.
UNIT III
Pneumatic and hydraulic actuation systems
Actuation systems; Pneumatic and hydraulic systems; Directional control valves; Pressure
control valves; Cylinders; Process control valves; Rotary actuators.
Mechanical actuation systems
Mechanical systems; Types of motion; Kinematic chains; Cams, Gear trains; Ratchet and
pawl; Belt and chain drives; Bearings; Mechanical aspects of motor selection.
UNIT IV
Electrical actuation system
Electrical systems; Mechanical switches; Solid-state switches; Solenoids; DC Motors; AC
Motors; Stepper motors.
Basic system models
Mathematical models; Mechanical systems building blocks; Electrical system building
blocks; Fluid system building blocks; Thermal system building blocks.
System models
Engineering systems; Rotational–translational systems; Electro-mechanical systems;
Hydraulic-mechanical systems.
UNIT V
Dynamic responses of systems
Modeling dynamic systems; First order systems; Second order systems; Performance
measures for second order systems; System identification.
133
System transfer function
The transfer function; First order systems; Second order systems,; Systems in series;
Systems with feed back loops; Effect of pole locations on transient response.
Closed loop controllers
Continuous and discrete processes; Control modes; Two step mode; Proportional mode;
Derivative control; Integral control; PID controller; Digital controllers; Control system
performance; Controller tuning, Velocity control, Adaptive control.
Microprocessors
Control; Microprocessors systems; Microcontrollers; Applications; Programming.
TEXT BOOK
Mechatronics: Electronic Control Systems in Mechanical and Electrical Engineering by W.
Bolton; Publisher: Pearson Education.
REFERENCE
1. Mechatronics; Publisher: HMT and TMH
2. Introduction to Mechatronics and Measurement Systems by David G. Alciatore,
Michael B.Histand; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
3. Mechatronic System Design by Devdas Shetty and Richard A. Kolk; Publisher:
Cengage Learning.
4. INSTRUMENTATION by B.E. Noltingk (Part Numbers 1, to 5); Publisher: Butterworth-
Heinemann
134
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective III 4 0 4
(R11MED1134) ADVANCED MECHANICS OF SOLIDS
UNIT I
Linear stress-strain-temperature relations
First law of thermodynamics, internal energy density, and complementary internal energy
density – elasticity and internal-energy density, and elasticity and complementary internal-
energy density; Hooke’s law: anisotropic elasticity; Hooke’s law: isotropic elasticity –
isotropic and homogeneous materials, and strain-energy density of isotropic materials;
Equations of thermoelasticty for isotropic materials; Hooke’s law: orthotropic materials.
Inelastic material behavior
Limitations on the use of uniaxial stress-strain data – rate of loading, temperature lower than
room temperature, temperature higher than room temperature, unloading and load reversal,
and multiaxial states of stress; Nonlinear material response – models of uniaxial stress-
strain curves; Yield criteria: general concepts – maximum principal stress criterion,
maximum principal strain criterion, and strain-energy density criterion; Yielding of ductile
metals – maximum shear-stress (Tresca) criterion, distortional energy density (von mises)
criterion, and effect of hydrostatic stress and the π-plane; Alternative yield criteria – Mohr-
coulomb yield criterion, Drucker-Prager yield criterion, and Hill’s criterion for orthotropic
materials; General yielding – elastic-plastic bending, fully plastic moment, shear effect on
inelastic bending, modulus of rupture, comparison of failure criteria, and interpretation of
failure criteria for general yielding.
UNIT II
Curved beams
Introduction; Circumferential stresses in a curved beam – location of neutral axis of cross
section; Radial stresses in curved beams – curved beams made from anisotropic materials;
Correction of circumferential stresses in curved beams having I, T, or similar cross sections
– Bleich’s correction factors; Deflections of curved beams – cross sections in the form of an
I, T, etc.; Statically indeterminate curved beams: closed ring subjected to a concentrated
load; Fully plastic loads for curved beams – fully plastic versus maximum elastic loads for
curved beams.
UNIT III
Beams on elastic foundations
General theory; Infinite beam subjected to concentrated load: boundary conditions – method
of superposition, and beam supported on equally spaced discrete elastic supports; Infinite
beam subjected to a distributed load segment – uniformly distributed load, βL’< π, βL’∞,
intermediate values of βL’, and triangular load; Semiinfinite beam subjected to loads at its
end; Semiinfinite beam with concentrated load near its end; Short beams; Thin-wall circular
cylinders.
135
UNIT IV
The thick-wall cylinder
Basic relations – equations of equilibrium, strain-displacement relations and compatibility
condition, stress-strain-temperature relations, and material response data; Stress
components at sections far from ends for a cylinder with closed ends – open cylinder; Stress
components and radial displacement for constant temperature – stress components, radial
displacement for a closed cylinder, and radial displacement for an open cylinder; Criteria of
failure – failure of brittle materials, failure of ductile materials, material response data for
design, and ideal residual stress distributions for composite open cylinders; Fully plastic
pressure and autofrettage; Cylinder solution for temperature change only – steady-state
temperature change (distribution), and stress components; Rotating disks of constant
thickness.
UNIT V
Flat plates
Introduction; Stress resultants in a flat plate; Kinematics: strain-displacement relations for
plates – rotation of a plate surface element; Equillibrium equations for small-displacement
theory of flat plates; Stress-strain-temperature relations for isotropic elastic plates – stress
components in terms of tractions and moments, and pure bending of plates; Strain energy of
a plate; Boundary conditions for plates; Solution of rectangular plate problems – Solution of
▼2 ▼2 w = P/D for a rectangular plate, Westerguaard approximate solution for rectangular
plates: uniform load, deflection of a rectangular plate: uniformly distributed load;
Solution of circular plate problems – solution of ▼2 ▼2 w = P/D for a circular plate, circular
plates with simply supported edges, circular plates with fixed edges, circular plate with a
circular hole at the center; summary of circular plates with simply supported edges,
summary for stresses and deflections in flat circular plates with central holes, summary for
large elastic deflections of circular plates: clamped edge and uniformly distributed load,
significant stress when edges are clamped, load on a plate when edges are clamped,
summary for large elastic deflections of circular plates: simply supported edge and uniformly
distributed load, rectangular or other shaped plates with large deflections.
Contact stresses
Introduction; The problem of determining contact stresses; Geometry of the contact surface
– fundamental assumptions, contact surface shape after loading, justification, and brief
discussion of the solution; Notation and meaning of terms; Expressions for principal
stresses; Method of computing contact stresses – principal stresses, maximum shear
stress, maximum octahedral shear stress, maximum orthogonal shear stress, and curves for
computing stresses for any value of B/A; Deflection of bodies in point contact – significance
of stresses; Stress for two bodies in line contact: loads normal to contact area – maximum
principal stresses:k=0, maximum shear stress:k=0, and maximum octahedral shear
stress:k=0; Stresses for two bodies in line contact:loads normal and tangent to contact area
– roller on plane, principal stresses, maximum shear stress, maximum octahedral shear
stress, effect of magnitude of friction coefficient, and range of shear stress for one load
cycle.
Overview of creep: time-dependent deformation.
136
TEXT BOOK
Advanced Mechanics of Materials (6E) by Arthur P. Boresi and Richard J. Schmidt;
Publisher: John Wiley.
REFERENCE
Strength of Materials (part 2): Advanced Theory and Problems by Stephen Timoshenko;
Publisher: CBS.
137
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective III 4 0 4
(R11MED1136) TRIBOLOGY
UNIT I
Introduction to the concept of tribodesign
Specific principles of tribodesign; Tribological problems in machine design - plain sliding
bearings, rolling contact bearings, piston, piston rings, cylinder liners, friction drives,
overview of gears.
Basic principles of tribology
Origins of sliding friction; Contact between bodies in relative motion; Friction due to
adhesion; Friction due to ploughing; Friction due to deformation; Energy dissipation during
friction; Friction under complex motion conditions; Types of wear and their mechanisms -
adhesive wear, abrasive wear, wear due to surface fatigue, and wear due to chemical
reactions; Sliding contact between surface asperities; The probability of surface asperity
contact.
UNIT II
(Cont’d) Basic principles of tribology
Wear in lubricated contacts - rheological lubrication regime, functional lubrication regime,
fractional film defect, load sharing in lubricated contacts, adhesive wear equation, and
fatigue wear equation; Relation between fracture mechanics and wear - estimation of stress
intensity under non-uniform applied loads; Film lubrication - coefficient of viscosity, fluid film
in simple shear, viscous flow between very close parallel surfaces, shear stress variations
within the film, lubrication theory by Osborne Reynolds, high-speed unloaded journal,
equilibrium conditions in a loaded bearing, loaded high-speed journal, equilibrium equations
for loaded high-speed journal, reaction torque acting on the bearing, the virtual coefficient of
friction, and the Sommerfeld diagram.
UNIT III
Elements of contact mechanics
Introduction; Concentrated and distributed forces on plane surfaces; Contact between two
elastic bodies in the form of spheres; Contact between cylinders and between bodies of
general shape; Failures of contacting surfaces; Design values and procedures;
Thermal effects in surface contacts - analysis of line contacts, refinement for unequal bulk
temperatures, refinement for thermal bulging in the conjunction zone, the effect of surface
layers and lubricant films, critical temperature for lubricated contacts, the case of circular
contact, contacts for which size is determined by load, and maximum attainable flash
temperature;
Contact between rough surfaces - characteristics of random rough surfaces, and contact of
nominally flat rough surfaces; Representation of machine element contacts.
138
UNIT IV
Friction, lubrication and wear in lower kinematics pairs
Introduction; The concept of friction angle - friction in slideways, and friction stability; Friction
in screws with a square thread - application of a threaded screw in a jack; Friction in screws
with a triangular thread; Plate clutch - mechanism of operation; Cone clutch - mechanism of
operation - driving torque; Rim clutch - mechanism of operation - equilibrium conditions,
auxiliary mechanisms, and power transmission rating; Centrifugal clutch - mechanism of
operation; Boundary lubricated sliding bearings - axially loaded bearings, and pivot and
collar bearings; Drives utilizing friction force - belt drive, mechanism of action, power
transmission rating, relationship between belt tension and modulus, and V-belt and rope
drives; Overview of frictional aspects of brake design.
UNIT V
Sliding-element bearings
Derivation of the Reynolds equation; Hydrostatic bearings; Squeeze-film lubrication
bearings; Thrust bearings - flat pivot, the effect of the pressure gradient in the direction of
motion, equilibrium conditions, and coefficient of friction and critical slope; Journal bearings
- geometrical configuration and pressure generation, mechanism of load transmission,
thermoflow considerations, design for load-bearing capacity, unconventional cases of
loading, numerical example.
TEXT BOOK
Tribology in Machine Design by T.A. Stolarski; Publisher: Butterworth and
Heinemann/Industrial Press.
REFERENCE
1. Tribology: Friction and Wear of Engineering Materials by I.M.Hutchings; Publisher:
Edward Arnold.
2. Industrial Tribology: The Practical Aspects of Friction, Lubrication and Wear by
M.H.Jones and Douglas Scott; Publisher: Elsevier
139
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(R11MED1139) UNCONVENTIONAL MACHINING PROCESSES
UNIT I
Early progress in machining;
Electron beam machining (EBM)
Introduction; Basic equipment; Emission current; Theoretical considerations; Rates of
material removal in EBM; Surface roughness of work piece in EBM; Heat-affected zone;
Applications of EBM.
Ion beam machining
Introduction; Ion beam machining system; Collision mechanism; Rates of material removal
in IBM; Accuracy and surface effects; Applications.
UNIT II
Electrochemical machining
Introduction; Electrolysis; Characteristics of ECM; Basic working principles; Industrial
electrochemical machine; Rates of machining; Surface finish in ECM; Accuracy and
dimensional control; Overview of theory of shaping in ECM; Applications; Special ECM
applications.
UNIT III
Laser machining
Introduction; Spontaneous emission of radiation; Stimulated emission; Laser oscillation;
Types of laser; Laser beam characteristics; Effects of laser on materials; Effects of work
piece material; Overview of Rates of machining and heat-affected zones; Applications.
Electro discharge machining
Introduction; Lazarenko relaxation (RC) circuit; Development of controlled pulse generators;
Mechanism of materiel removal; Dielectric fluids; Tool materials; Overview of metal removal
rates, surface effects, and accuracy; Applications.
UNIT IV
Overview of Plasma arc machining
Ultrasonic machining (USM)
Introduction; Principles of USM; Mechanism of material removal; Brittleness criterion;
Effects of process conditions on rate of USM; Theory of material removal rates in USM;
Surface finish; Accuracy; Applications; Ultrasonic twist drilling; Industrial ultrasonic machine.
UNIT V
Water-jet machining
Introduction; Basic equipment; Theoretical considerations; Advantages of WJM,
Applications.
140
TEXT BOOK
Advanced Methods of Machining by J.A. McGeough; Publisher: Chapman and Hall.
REFERENCE
1. Manufacturing Engineering and Technology by Serope Kalpakjian and Steven R.
Schmid; Publisher: Pearson.
2. New Technology by A. Battacharya; Publisher: The Institution of Engineers, India,
1984.
141
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE I Sem T T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(R11AME1107) VEHICLE BODY ENGINEERING AND SAFETY
UNIT I
STRUCTURAL MATERIALS
Aluminium alloy sheet, extrusion and casting, Austenitic and Ferritic stainless steels. alloy
steels. Different types of composites, FRP and Metal Matrix Composites. Structural timbers,
properties designing in GRP and high strength composites different manufacturing
techniques of composites. Thermo plastics, ABS and styrenes. Load bearing plastics, semi-
rigid PUR foams and sandwich panel construction
UNIT II
SHAPING AND PACKAGING
Product design and concepts, Aesthetics and industrial design, formal aesthetics and
shape. Computer aided drafting, surface development, interior ergonomics. Ergonomics
system design, dashboard instruments, advances in electronic display, CV legal dimension.
CV- cab ergonomics, mechanical package layout.
UNIT III
AERODYNAMICS
Basics, aerofoils, aerodynamics drag lift, pitching, yawing and rolling moments,
determination of aerodynamic coefficients (wind tunnel testing). racing car aerodynamics.
bluff body aerodynamics, local air flows.
LOAD DISTRIBUTION
Types of load carrying structures,closed, integral, open, flat types. Calculation of loading
cases- static, asymmetric, vertical loads. Load distribution, stress analysis of structure, body
shell analysis.
UNIT IV
NOISE, VIBRATION, HARSHNESS
Noise and vibration basics. body structural vibrations, chassis bearing vibration, designing
against fatigue, rubber as an isolator. CV body mountings. automatic enclosures, sandwich
panels, structure dynamics applied, surety under impact: Impact protection basics. design
for crash worthiness, occupant and cargo restraints. Passive restraint systems, slide impact
analysis, bumper system, energy absorbant foams, laws of mechanisms applied to safety.
VEHICLE STABILITY
Steering geometry vehicle and a curvilinear path, and lateral stability. etfects of tyre factors.
mass distribution and engine location on stability.
142
UNIT V
BODY FITTING AND I CONTROLS
Driver’s seat, window winding mechanism, Door lock mechanism, other interior
mechanisms, driver’s visibility’ and tests for, visibility, minimum space, requirements and
methods or improving space in cars. electric wiring and electronic control systems,
advanced body electronics, networking or body systems controls.
VANS, TRUCKS AND BUSES
Types of mini coach with trailers, single and double deckers. design criteria based on
passenger capacity; goods to be transported and distance to be Covered, constructional
details: weights and dimensions; conventional and integral type.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Body Engineering,by Sydney F Page
2. Vehicle body engineerin by Gilcs J Pawlowski,
REFERENCES
1. Automotive chassis,P.M. Heldt. chilton and Co
2. Handbook on vehicle body design,SAE Publications.
143
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(R11MED1140) PLANT LAYOUT AND MATERIAL HANDLING
UNIT I
Plant layouts
Fundamentals of plant layouts; Software tools used for making plant layouts; Case studies
Overview of process Layout and product layout;
Elements of material handling system
Importance; Terminology; Objectives and benefits of better material handling; Principles and
features of Material Handling System; Interrelationships between material handling and
plant layout; Physical facilities and other organizational functions; Classification of material
handling equipments.
UNIT II
Selection of material handling equipments
Factors affecting for selection; Material handling equation; Choices of material handling
equipment; General analysis procedures; Basic analytical techniques; The unit load
concept; Selection of suitable types of systems for applications; Activity cost data and
economic analysis for design of components of material handling systems; Functions and
parameters affecting service; Packing and storage of materials.
UNIT III
Hoists
Drives for hoisting; Components and hoisting mechanisms; Rail traveling components and
mechanisms; Hoisting gear operation during transient motion; Selecting the motor rating
and determining breaking torque for hoisting mechanisms.
Cranes
Hand-propelled and electrically driven E.O.T. overhead traveling cranes; Traveling
mechanisms of cantilever and monorail cranes; Design considerations for structures of
rotary cranes with fixed radius; Fixed post and overhead traveling cranes; Stability of
stationary rotary and traveling rotary cranes.
UNIT IV
Load lifting attachments
Load chains and types of ropes used in material handling system; Forged, Standard and
ramshorn hooks; Crane grabs and clamps; Grab buckets; Electromagnet; Design
consideration for conveyor belts; Application of attachments.
UNIT V
Study of systems and equipments used for material storage
Objectives of storage; Bulk material handling; Gravity flow of solids through slides and
chutes; Storage in bins and hoppers; Belt conveyors; Bucket-elevators; Screw conveyors;
Vibratory conveyors; Cabin conveyors; Mobile racks etc.
144
TEXT BOOK
1. Material Handling Equipment by N. Rudenko; Publisher: Peace publishers.
2. Facility layout, location and analytical approach by R.L. Francis, L.F. McLinnis Jr.,
White; Publisher: PHI
145
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(R11MED1141) COMPUTATIONAL FLUID DYNAMICS
BASIC THOUGHTS AND EQUATIONS
UNIT I
Philosophy of Computational Fluid Dynamics
Need for computational fluid dynamics; Computational fluid dynamics as a research tool;
Computational fluid dynamics as a design tool; The impact of computational fluid dynamics
– examples - automobile and engine applications, industrial manufacturing applications, civil
engineering applications, environmental engineering applications, naval architecture
applications (submarine example); computational fluid dynamics technique.
The Governing Equations of Fluid Dynamics - Derivation, Physical Meaning, and
Forms Particularly Suitable to CFD
Introduction; Models of the flow - Finite control volume, and infinitesimal fluid element; The
substantial derivative (time rate of change following a moving fluid element); The divergence
of the velocity - its physical meaning;
The continuity equation - model of the finite control volume fixed in space, model of the finite
control volume moving with the fluid, model of an infinitesimally small element fixed in
space, model of an infinitesimally small fluid element moving with the flow, integral versus
differential form of the equations, and similarities and differences in equations;
The momentum equation; The energy equation;
Summary of the governing equations for fluid dynamics - equations for viscous flow (the
navier-stokes equations), equations for inviscid flow (the Euler equations);
Physical boundary conditions; Forms of the governing equations particularly suited for CFD.
UNIT II
Mathematical behavior of partial differential equations - the impact on CFD
Introduction; Classification of quasi-linear partial differential equations; A general method of
determining the classification of partial differential equations - the eigenvalue method;
General behavior of the different classes of partial differential equations - impact on physical
and computational fluid dynamics - hyperbolic equations, parabolic equations, elliptic
equations, and applications.
BASICS OF THE NUMERICS
UNIT III
Basic aspects of discretization
Introduction; Introduction to finite differences; Difference equations; Explicit and Implicit
approaches - definitions and contrasts; Errors and an analysis of stability.
Grids with appropriate transformations
Introduction; General transformation of the equations; Metrics and Jacobians; Convenient
form of the governing equations particularly suited for CFD; Stretched (compressed) grids;
Boundary-fitted coordinate systems; Elliptic grid generation.
146
UNIT IV
Introduction to CFD Techniques
Introduction; The Lax-Wendroff technique; MacCormack’s technique;
Viscous flows, conservation form, and space marching; The relaxation technique and is use
with low-speed inviscid flow; Aspects of numerical dissipation and dispersion - artificial
viscosity; The alternating-direction-implicit (ADI) technique.
UNIT V
(Contd) Introduction to CFD Techniques
The pressure correction technique - application to incompressible viscous flow - the
incompressible navier-stokes equations, Central differencing of the incompressible Navier-
stokes equations - the need for a staggered grid; The philosophy of the pressure correction
method; The pressure correction formula; The numerical procedure - the SIMPLE algorithm;
Boundary conditions for the pressure correction method.
APPLICATIONS
Numerical solutions of quasi-one-dimensional nozzle flows – simple problems
Overview of Numerical solution of a two-dimensional supersonic flow- Prandtl-Meyer
expansion wave
TEXT BOOK
Computational Fluid Dynamics: the basics with applications by John D. Anderson, Jr.;
Publisher: McGraw Hill
REFERENCE
1. Computational Fluid Dynamics: An Introduction by J.F.Wendt and J.D.Anderson;
Publisher: Springer
2. Computational Fluid Dynamics by J.Blazek; Publisher: Elsevier.
147
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech. AE I SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11AME1203) AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING LAB
Part A
Primary inspection of the engine condition
Demounting the automotive engine
Mounting of automotive engine
Connections for automotive engine
Air conditioning test
Part B
Advanced Fabrication of automotive body parts.
Advanced Joining processes for automotive body parts.
Advanced Assembly of automotive body parts.
Advanced Automotive body building.
148
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech. AE I SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11MED1209) CAD/ CAM LAB
12 experiments from the following syllabus:
1. Part Modeling: Generation of 3D models of various parts using feature based and
parametric software;
Creation of various features; Study of parent child relation;
Surface and assembly modeling; Study of various standard translators.
2. Finite element analysis
a) Determination of deflection and stresses in 2D and 3D trusses and beams.
b) Determination Principal/ Von-Mises stresses and deflections, in plane stress/
plane strain/ axisymmetric models.
c) Determination of stresses in 3D and shell structures.
d) Estimation of natural frequencies and mode shapes, and harmonic response of
2D beam.
3. Computer aided manufacturing
a) Development of process sheets for various components.
b) Development of manufacturing and tool management systems.
c) Study of various post processors used in NC Machines.
d) Development of NC code for turning and milling jobs using CAM packages.
e) Machining of simple components on NC lathe and Mill by transferring NC Code/
from a CAM package through RS 232.
f) Quality Control and inspection.
149
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE I sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MED1121) FINITE ELEMENT METHOD
UNIT I
Fundamental concepts
Introduction; Historical background; Stresses and equilibrium; Boundary conditions; Strain-
displacement relations; Stress-strain relations; Temperature effects; Potential energy and
equilibrium - the Rayleigh-Ritz method; Galerkin’s method; Saint Venant’s principle; Von
Mises stress.
Matrix algebra and Gaussian elimination
Matrix algebra; Gaussian elimination; Conjugate gradient method for equation solving.
One-dimensional problems
Introduction; Finite element modeling; Co-ordinates and shape functions; The potential
energy approach; The Galerkin approach; Assembly of the global stiffness matrix (K) and
load vector; Properties of K; The finite element equations; Treatment of boundary
conditions; Quadratic shape functions; Temperature effects.
UNIT II
Trusses
Introduction; Plane trusses; Three-dimensional trusses; Assembly of global stiffness matrix
for the banded and skyline solutions.
Two-dimensional problems using constant strain triangles
Introduction; Finite element modeling; Constant strain triangle (CST); Problem modeling and
boundary conditions.
UNIT III
Axisymmetric solids subjected to axisymmetric loading
Introduction; Axisymmetric formulation; Finite element modeling - triangular element;
Problem modeling and boundary conditions.
UNIT IV
Two-dimensional isoparametric elements and numerical integration
Introduction; The four-node quadrilateral; Numerical integration; Higher-order-elements.
150
UNIT V
Beams and frames
Introduction; Finite element formulation; Load vector; Boundary considerations; Shear force
and bending moment; Beams on elastic supports; Plane frames; Three-dimensional frames.
Overview of Three-dimensional problems in stress analysis
TEXT BOOK
Introduction to Finite Elements in Engineering, 2E, by Tirupathi R. Chandrupatla, Ashok D.
Belegundu; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
REFERENCE
1. Finite Element Method by Zienkiewicz.
2. An Introduction to Finite Element Methods by J.N.Reddy.
3. Finite Element Method by S.S.Rao.
151
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 0 3
(R11AME1108) AUTO AIR CONDITIONING
UNIT I
FUNDAMENTALS OF REFRIGERATION
Vapour compression refrigeration, working principle, cycle COP, refrigeration cycle in T-s
and P-h coordinates, Effect of sub cooling and super heating and cycle analysis and
problems using P-h charts. Refrigerants used in Automobiles — properties
UNIT II
INTRODUCTION TO AIR CONDITIONING
Psychrometric properties and processes, sensible and latent heat loads, characterization
and SHF load for ventilation and filtration, concepts of RSHFand SHF ESHF and ADP,
concepts of human comfort and effective temperature.
Vehicle cooling, load estimation, capacity requirements of Air Conditioning System.
UNIT III
COMPONENTS OF AIR CONDITIONERS
Air-conditioning Components: Compressor- Evaporator-Condenser- Expansion valve,
Receiver Drier- Filters-Mufflers, special features-compressor protection Anti freezing relay.
Air Heating equipment, Ducts, Registers and Grills, blowers, filters.
UNIT IV
OPERATION OF AN AIR-CONDITIONING SYSTEM
Type of Air conditioners. Heaters, Vehicle ventilation-combination heater and air
conditioner-manually controlled air conditioner and heater system- automatically controlled
air conditioner and heater systems.
UNIT V
TROUBLE SHOOTING AND SERVICES
Servicing of heating Systems, Causes of air conditioner Failure, leak testing guide,
Discharging the system- Evacuating the system-charging the System-trouble shooting air
conditioner heater Systems.
SERVICING OF AIR CONDITIONERS, HEATING SYSTEMS
Air conditioner maintenance and service. Compressor trouble shooting and service, clutch
service- shaft seal leakage compressor. Seal removal checking oil level-oil addition, repairs
on compressors.
152
TEXT BOOK
Automotive Air-conditioning- By William H.Crouse and Donald L.Anglin. MH
REFERENCES
1. Automotive Air-conditioning- By Lesile F.Gomgs. McGrawHil I
2. Automotive Air-conditioning- By Boyce H.Dwiggins. Reston Pub.
3. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning by Manohar Prasad
4. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning by C.P.Arora
153
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE II SEM L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 0 3
(R11MED1147) PRODUCTION PLANNING AND CONTROL
GENERAL
UNIT I
Functions of production planning and control (PPC)
Introduction; Materials; Methods; Machines and equipments; Routing; Estimating; Loading
and scheduling; Dispatching; Expediting; Inspection; Evaluating;
Broad categories of functions of production planning and control - Preplanning, planning and
control; Other industrial engineering functions that have interdependency with PPC - Plant
layout, simplification and standardization, time and motion study, and Inventory control.
Manufacturing systems
Types of production - job production, batch production, and continuous production; Size of
pants; Types of industry.
Production procedure
The production cycle; Coordination of production decisions - the product, the components
and assemblies (or semi finished products), the means (7 M’s; management: skill and
potentialities; manpower; management: finance planning; matrix; materials; methods;
machines); Departmental responsibilities.
Organization
Department sectionalization - Production planning, production control, and inventory control;
Variations on the conventional pattern of organization – motion and time study, standards
section, transportation section, and central statistics office; Centralized and decentralized
production planning and control.
PREPLANNING
Product development and design
Company policy – Effect of competition on design, and long-range planning;
Product analysis – marketing aspect, and the product characteristics (functional aspect;
operational aspect; durability and dependability; aesthetic aspect);
Economic analysis – profit and competitiveness, the three S’s (simplification; specialization;
standardization; preferred numbers), the break-even analysis, and the economics of a new
design;
Production aspect.
154
UNIT II
Sales forecasting and estimating
About forecasting;
Restrictions of consumption – the product and its limitations, the consumer and his potential
buying power, analysis of competition (competing for a share of the market), saturation
(selling to satisfy demand; replacement), distribution and promotion methods (advertising;
effectiveness of distribution channels; terms of sale), and state of business (pricing policies;
business cycles);
Making the forecast – the market share, sales trend analysis, forecasting in seasonal
demand, a trend analysis in seasonal demand, the use of indicators and correlation
analysis, and combination of methods;
Effects of forecast on the production order; Accuracy of forecasts; Case studies in sales
forecasting.
Plant layout
Introduction; Flow systems – horizontal flow lines (I-flow, L-flow, U-flow, S-flow, O-flow,
unidirectional or retractional flow, integration of flow lines into an assembly line), and vertical
flow lines (processing downwards or upwards; centralized or decentralized elevation;
unidirectional or retractional flow; vertical or inclined flow; single or multiflow; flow between
buildings);
Types of layouts – classification (product layout; process layout; static product layout),
machine layout, materials handling, effect of automation on layout, symptoms of a bad
layout, factors to be considered in layout planning, and templates and models.
Evaluation of materials and methods
Introduction; Value analysis – consideration of new techniques and materials;
Efficient utilization and selection of materials – criteria for selection of materials, machine
speeds, hot processes, machine speeds, hot processes, surface characteristics, new
materials, dimensional specifications, material utilization of a shop or a process, analysis of
processes, and case studies;
Design for production – scope of modifications.
PLANNING
UNIT III
The production order
Schematic process outlines, process, and activity charts;
Production master programs – required data, long-term planning, programming component
production; Operation and route sheets; Breakline of the production order; Stock planning;
Basic production planning problems.
155
Quantities in batch production
Stock control; Definition of batch sizes; Minimum cost batch size – formulae, raymond’s
formula, lehoczky’s formula, davis formula, use of formula, use of a monograph, a graphical
method, a modified graphical method, equating the variable costs; The production range –
determination of the production range, and effect on production costs; Maximum-profit batch
size; Maximum return; Maximum rate of return; Comparison of the various criteria.
Batch-size determination under boundary conditions
Abrupt changes in the constant cost term, c; Breaks in the carrying cost factor, K; Breaks in
the preparation costs, s; Combined breaks.
Machine capacity – typical problems.
UNIT IV
Scheduling
Forms of schedules – loading and scheduling, and basic scheduling problems;
Flow production scheduling for fluctuating demand – decision process, and production
loading; Multiproduct scheduling in batch production;
The assignment problems – Distribution according to capacity, cost of operating production
facilities, and effects of overtime or subcontracting;
Scheduling orders with random arrivals – problems of random-order scheduling, the
simulation technique, other applications of the simulation technique; Product sequencing –
sequence analysis, and minimum processing time.
Batch production scheduling
Introduction – sequence of batches; Optimizing the production schedule – maintaining stock
level, specifying batch sizes, minimum costs per unit, maximium profit for the whole
schedule, maximum returns to the whole schedule, and maximum rate of return for the
whole schedule; Deriving a realistic solution – procedure; Multischeduling six products-a
case study – preliminary data and first solution, determining the production range, testing
the solution, methods of leading to modified solutions, increase the consumption period,
relaxation of the production ranges, increase the capacity of the plant, modify the
requirements, and relaxation of p for two-cycle production plans; Application of the theory to
assembly work.
CONTROL
UNIT V
Elements of control procedures
Stages and activities of control – control of processes and production activities, quantity or
inventory control, quality control, cost control; Dispatching and expediting; Recording
progress – visual charts, and cumulative and weekly charts.
156
Computer-assisted production control
Introduction – computer requirements, and computer types and operation; Media for
recording data – sales information, production control, payroll and assignment, and
materials control; Installation of a computer-assisted production control system – sales
analysis, product and materials analysis, schedule analysis, and designing a new
procedure; Programming; Applications – stock control, and control of job production.
Inventory control
Significance; Effect of demand on inventories – restrictions on output increase, stock control
systems, ordering procedures, the two-bin system, the ordering cycle system, and
combinations of the two-bin and the ordering cycle systems; Reorder quantity – reorder
range, effect of splitting an order; Reorder procedure – reorder point in the two-bin system,
and reorder procedure in the cycle system; Effect of uncertainity – insufficient supply to
customers, and insufficient supply to assembly line; Comparison of replenishment policies -
the optimistic policy, the realistic policy, and the pessimistic policy.
TEXT BOOK
Elements of Production Planning and Control by Samuel Eilon; Publisher: Universal
Publishing Corporation (UPC).
REFERENCE
1. Fundamentals of Production Planning and Control by S.N.Chapman; Publisher:
Pearson Education.
2. Operations Management by Chase; Publisher: PHI.
157
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE II SEM L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 0 3
(R11MED1149) OPERATIONS RESEARCH
UNIT I
Introduction
The origins of operations research; The nature of operations research; The impact of
operations research; Algorithms and OR courseware.
Overview of the operations research modeling approach
Defining the problem and gathering data; Formulating a mathematical model; Deriving
solutions from the model; Testing the model; Preparing to apply the model; Implementation;
Conclusions.
UNIT II
Introduction to linear programming
Applications; The linear programming model; Assumptions of linear programming; Some
classic case studies; Formulating and solving linear programming models on a spreadsheet;
Formulating very large linear programming models.
UNIT III
Solving linear programming problems: the simplex method
The essence of the simplex method; Setting up the simplex method; The algebra of the
simplex method; The simplex method in tabular form; Tie breaking in the simplex method;
Adapting to other model forms; Postoptimality analysis; Computer implementation; The
interior-point approach to solving linear programming problems; Case studies.
The theory of the simplex method
Foundations of the simplex method; the revised simplex method; A fundamental insight.
UNIT IV
Duality theory and sensitivity analysis
The essence of duality theory; Economic interpretation of duality; Primal-dual relationships;
Adapting to other primal forms; The role of duality theory in sensitivity analysis; The essence
of sensitivity analysis; Applying sensitivity analysis; Performing sensitivity analysis on a
spreadsheet; Case studies.
The transportation and assignment problems
Transportation problem; a streamlined simplex method for the transportation problem;
Assignment problem.
158
UNIT V
Network optimization models
Applications; The terminology of networks; The shortest- path problem; The minimum
spanning tree problem; The maximum flow problem; The minimum cost flow problem; The
network simplex method; a network model for optimizing a projects time-cost trade-off; Case
Studies.
Dynamic programming
A prototype example for dynamic programming; Characteristics of dynamic programming
problems; Deterministic dynamic programming; Probability dynamic programming.
TEXT BOOK
Introduction to Operations Research by Frederick Hillier and Gerald Libermann; Publisher:
McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
1. Operations Research by Wagner; Publisher: PHI.
2. Operations Research by J.K.Sharma, 3rd edition; Publisher: MacMillan
3. Operations Research: A Practical Introduction by M.W.Carter and C.C.Price;
Publisher: CRC Press.
4. Operations Research: Methods and Problems by Maurice Saseini, Arthur Yaspan and
Lawrence Friedman.
5. The Operations Research Problem Solver by Research and Education Association;
Publisher: Research and Education Associates.
159
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 0 3
(R11MED1158) MAINTENANCE AND SAFETY ENGINEERING
UNIT I
Organization and management of the maintenance function
Redefining Maintenance — Delivering reliability; Introduction to the theory and practice of
maintenance; Maintenance and reliability engineering; Cooperative partnerships; Effective
maintenance organizations; Operating policies of effective maintenance; Six sigma safety -
applying quality management principles to foster a zero-injury safety culture; Introduction to
corrective maintenance, preventive maintenance, and predictive maintenance.
UNIT II
Maintenance of mechanical equipment
Plain bearings; Rolling-element bearings; Flexible couplings for power transmission; Chains
for power transmission.
UNIT III
(Contd) Maintenance of mechanical equipment
Cranes - Overhead and gantry; Chain hoists; Belt drives; Mechanical variable-speed drives.
UNIT IV
(Contd) Maintenance of mechanical equipment
Gear Drives and speed reducers; Reciprocating air compressors; Valves; Pumps -
Centrifugal and positive displacement.
UNIT V
Lubrication
The organization and management of lubrication; Lubricating devices and systems;
Planning and implementing a good lubrication program.
TEXT BOOK
Maintenance Engineering Handbook by R. Keith Mobley, Lindley R. Higgins, and Derin J.
Wikoff; Publisher: Mc Graw Hill
REFERENCE
Engineering Maintenance: A Modern Approach by B.S.Dhillon; Publisher: CRC Press.
160
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE II SEM L T/P/D C
Elective VI 3 0 3
(R11AME1109) AUTOMOTIVE POLLUTION AND CONTROL
UNIT I
Laws and Regulation
Historical background; Regulatory test procedures (European cycles); Exhaust gas
pollutants (European rail road limits); Particulate pollutants; European statutory values;
Inspection of vehicles in circulation (Influence of actual traffic conditions and influence of
vehicle maintenance).
Economic challenges
Introduction; Cost of improvement to SI Engines; cost of injection systems, cost of
improvement in diesel engines, Economic consequences of introducing the catalyst,
additional costs incurred by diesel traps. Cost of periodic inspection of pollution control
systems and evaporative control systems.
UNIT II
Analysis of pollutants
Carbon and nitrogen compounds -(CO, CO2, Nox), Ammonia and Amines, Hydrocarbons,
Volatile compounds, evaporative losses, analysis of particulates
Pollutants from SI engines
Mechanism and Formation of HC, CO, and NOx in SL engines. Engine and operating
variables affecting pollutants in SI engines.
Pollution for CI engines
Mechanism of formation of HC, CO, NOx, and root in CI engines. Factor affecting emissions
in CI engines.
UNIT III
Lean burn and stratified charge engines
Multipoint fuel injection and Gasoline direct injection methods. Common rail fuel injection in
diesel engines. Exhaust gas recirculation.
Post combustion treatments
Introduction, exhaust gas composition before treatment, catalytic converters, oxidation and
three way types thermal reactors, installation of catalysts in exhaust lines, NOx treatment in
diesel engines, particulate traps for diesel engines, particulate trap regeneration.
161
UNIT IV
Instrumentation for pollution measurements
NDIR- analyzer, thermal conductivity and flame ionization detectors, analyzers for NOx, gas
chromatograph. Orsat apparatus, smoke meters- spot sampling and continuous indication
types like Bosch, Hartridge. Particulate measuring systems. Dilution tunnels – full flow and
partial flow.
UNIT V
Knock in SI and CI engines
Knock rating of SI and CI engine fuels, alternative fuel like hydrogen, natural gas, LP
vegetable oil and bio diesel, their production, properties, storage and performance as
engine fuels.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Bosch: Gasoline fuel injection- Bosch Publications
2. Bosch: Diesel fuel injection –Bosch Publications
REFERENCES
1. Automobile and Pollution- PaulDegobert(SAE)
2. Diesel engines operation manual- VL Maleev, CBS Publications.
3. IC Engines – E.F Obert, Harper and Row
4. Engine emission- Springer and Patterson, Plenum Press.
5. Heins Aeisth- Internal Combustion Engines- SAE Publications
162
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE II SEM L T/P/D C
Elective VI 3 0 3
(R11MED1153) PRINCIPLES OF ENTERPRENEURSHIP
THE ENTREPRENEURIAL PERSPECTIVE
UNIT I
The nature and importance of entrepreneurs
Sample profile; Nature and development of entrepreneurship; Definition of entrepreneurship;
The entrepreneurial decision process - change from present lifestyle, desirability of new
venture formation, and possibility of new venture formation; Types of start-ups; Role of
entrepreneurship in economic development - government as an innovator, intrapreneurship,
and entrepreneurship; Entrepreneurial careers and education; Ethics and social
responsibility of entrepreneurs; The future of entrepreneurship.
The entrepreneurial and intrapreneurial mind
Sample profile; The entrepreneurial process - identify and evaluate the opportunity, develop
a business plan, determine the resources required, and manage the enterprise; Managerial
versus entrepreneurial decision making - strategic orientation, commitment to opportunity,
commitment of resources, control of resources, and management structure; Causes for
interest in intrapreneurship; Corporate versus intrapreneurial culture; Climate for
intrapreneurship; Intrapreneurial leadership characteristics; Establishing intrapreneurship in
the organization; Problems and successful efforts.
The individual entrepreneur
Sample profile; Entrepreneurial feelings - locus of control, feelings about independence and
need for achievement, and risk taking; Entrepreneur background and characteristics -
childhood family environment, education, personal values, age, and work history;
Motivation; Role models and support systems - moral-support network, and professional-
support network; Male versus female entrepreneurs; Minority entrepreneurship;
Entrepreneurs versus inventors.
International entrepreneurship opportunities
Sample profile; The nature of international entrepreneurship; The importance of international
business to the firm; International versus domestic entrepreneurship - economics, stage of
economic development, balance of payments, type of system, political-legal environment,
cultural environment, technological environment, and strategic issues; Entrepreneurial entry
into international business - exporting, nonequity arrangements, and direct foreign
investment; Barriers to international trade - general agreements on tariffs and trade,
Increasing protectionist attitudes, Trade blocs and free trade areas; Entrepreneur's strategy
and trade barriers, and entrepreneurial partnering; Case studies for “The entrepreneurial
perspective”.
CREATING AND STARTING THE VENTURE
UNIT II
Creativity and the business idea
Sample profile; Sources of new ideas - consumers, existing products and services,
distribution channels, federal government, and research and development; Methods of
163
generating ideas - focus groups, brainstorming, and problem inventory analysis; Creative
problem solving - brainstorming, reverse brainstorming, brainwriting, Gordon method,
checklist method, free association, forced relationships, collective notebook method,
attribute listing, big-dream approach, and parameter analysis; Opportunity recognition;
Product planning and development process - establishing evaluation criteria, idea stage,
concept stage, product development stage, and test marketing stage; E-commerce and
business start-up - using e-commerce creativity, website, tracking customer information,
and doing e-commerce as an entrepreneurial company.
Legal issues for the entrepreneur
Sample profile; Intellectual property; Need for a lawyer; Select a lawyer; Legal issues in
setting up the organization; Patents - international patents, the disclosure document, the
patent application, and patent infringement; Business method patents; Trademarks -
registering the trademark; Copyrights; Trade secrets; Licensing; Product safety and liability;
Insurance; Contracts.
The business plan - creating and starting the venture
Sample profile; Planning as part of the business operation; Business plan; Writing the plan;
Scope and value of the business plan—reading of the plan; evaluation of the plan by
potential lenders and investors; Presenting the plan; Information needs - market information,
operations information needs, and financial information needs; Using the internet as a
resource tool; Writing the business plan - introductory page, executive summary,
environmental and industry analyses, description of venture, production plan, operations
plan, Marketing plan, organizational plan; assessment of risk, and financial plan; Using and
implementing the business plan - measuring plan progress, and updating the plan; Failure of
business plan.
UNIT III
The marketing plan
Sample profile; Industry analysis - competitor analysis; Marketing research for the new
venture - defining the purpose or objectives, gathering data from secondary sources,
gathering information from primary sources, analyzing and interpreting the results;
Understanding the marketing plan; Characteristics of a marketing plan; The marketing mix;
Steps in preparing the marketing plan - defining the business situation, defining the target
market/opportunities and threats, considering strengths and weaknesses, establishing goals
and objectives, defining marketing strategy and action programs, marketing strategy-
consumer versus business-to-business markets, budgeting the marketing strategy,
implementation of the market plan, and monitoring progress of marketing actions;
Contingency planning; Failure of plans.
The organizational plan
Sample profile; Developing the management team; Legal forms of business - ownership,
liability of owners, costs of starting a business, continuity of business, transferability of
interest, capital requirements, management control, distribution of profits and losses, and
attractiveness for raising capital; Tax attributes of forms of business - tax issues for
proprietorship, tax issues for partnership, and tax issues for corporation;
164
(In the national and international context) The limited liability company versus the S
corporation; S corporation - advantages and disadvantages of an S corporation; The limited
liability company;
Designing the organization; Building the management team and a successful organization
culture; The role of a board of directors; The board of advisors; The organization and use of
advisors.
The financial plan
Sample profile; Operating and capital budgets; Pro Forma income statements; Pro Forma
cash flow; Pro Forma balance sheet; Break-even analysis; Pro forma sources and
applications of funds; software packages; Case studies for “creating and starting the
venture”.
UNIT IV
Financing the new venture: sources of capital
Sample profile; An overview - debt or equity financing, and internal or external funds;
Personal funds; Family and friends; Commercial banks - types of bank loans, cash flow
financing, and bank leading decisions; Role of SBA in small business financing; Research
and development limited partnerships - major elements, procedure, benefits and costs, and
case studies; Government grants – procedure; Private placement - types of investors,
private offerings, and regulations; Bootstrap financing.
Informal risk capital and venture capital
Opening profile; Financing the business; Informal risk-capital market; Venture capital -
nature of venture capital, overview of the venture-capital industry, venture-capital process,
locating venture capitalists, and approaching a venture capitalist; Valuing your company -
factors in valuation, ratio analysis, liquidity ratios, activity ratios, leverage ratios, profitability
ratios, general valuation approaches, general valuation method, and evaluation of an
internet company; Deal structure; Case studies for “financing the new venture”.
MANAGING, GROWING, AND ENDING THE NEW VENTURE
UNIT V
Entrepreneurial strategy: generating and exploiting new entries
Sample profile; New entry; Generation of a new entry opportunity - resources as a source of
competitive advantage, and creating an effective resource bundle; Assessing the
attractiveness of a new entry opportunity - information on a new entry, comfort with making
a decision under uncertainty, and decision to exploit or not to exploit the new entry; Entry
strategy for new entry exploitation - environmental instability and first-mover
(dis)advantages, customers' uncertainty and first-mover (dis)advantages, and lead time and
first-mover (dis)advantages; Risk reduction strategies for new entry exploitation - market
scope strategy, imitation strategies, and managing newness.
Strategies for growth and managing the implications of growth
Sample profile; Growth strategies - Avenues for growth opportunities - penetration
strategies, market development strategies, product development strategies, diversification
strategies, and case studies; Economic implications of growth; Implications of growth for the
firm - pressures on existing financial resources, pressures on human resources, pressures
on the management of employees, and pressures on the entrepreneur's time; Overcoming
165
pressures on existing financial resources; Financial control - managing cash flow, managing
inventory, mananging fixed assets, managing costs and profits, taxes, and record keeping;
Overcoming pressures on existing human resources; Overcoming pressures on the
management of employees; Overcoming pressures on entrepreneurs’ time - basic principles
of time management; Implications of firm growth to the entrepreneur - a categorization of
entrepreneurs and their firms' growth.
Accessing resources for growth from external sources
Sample profile; Using external parties to help grow a business; Franchising - advantages of
franchising to the franchisee and the franchisor, disadvantages of franchising, and types of
franchises; Investing in a franchise; Joint ventures - types of joint ventures, and factors in
the joint venture success; Acquisitions - advantages of an acquisition, disadvantages of an
acquisition, synergy, structuring the deal, locating acquisition candidates; Mergers;
Leveraged buyouts; Overcoming constraints by negotiating for more resources.
Going public
Sample profile; Advantages and disadvantages of going public; The alternatives to going
public; Timing of going public and underwriter selection - timing, and underwriter selection;
Registration statement and timetable - the prospectus, and procedure; Legal issues, and
blue-sky qualifications; After going public - aftermarket support, relationship with the
financial community, and reporting requirements; myths concerning going public.
Ending the venture
Sample profile; Bankruptcy—an overview; Surviving bankruptcy; Prepackaged bankruptcy;
Extended time payment plans; Liquidation; Strategy during reorganization; Keeping the
venture going; Warning signs of bankruptcy; Starting over; The reality of failure; Business
turnarounds; Exit strategy; Succession of business - transfer to family members and non–
family members; Harvesting strategy - direct sale, employee stock option plan, and
management buyout; case studies for “managing, growing and ending the new venture”.
TEXT BOOK
Principles of Entrepreneurship by Robert D. Hisrich, Michael P. Peters, and Dean A.
Shepherd; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
1. Small Scale Industries and Entrepreneurship in the Twenty-First Century by Vasanth
Desai; Publisher: Himalaya Publishing House.
2. Entrepreneurship: Successfully Launching New Ventures by Bruce R.Barringer and R.
Duane Ireland; Publisher: Pearson Education.
166
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech. AE II SEM L T/P/D C
Elective VI 3 0 3
(R11MED1155) STATISTICAL QUALITY CONTROL AND TQM
UNIT I
Introduction and overview
The meaning of quality; The control-chart viewpoint; Scientific sampling; Use of examples;
Meanings and usage of the words ‘defective’ and ‘defect’; Significance of the viewpoint of
statistical quality control; statistical quality control and useful by–products; Reasons for the
use of the adjective, “statistical’; Four different levels of understanding statistical quality
control; Nonmanufacturing applications of statistical quality control techniques;
Directions for sample x and r chart
Setting up and operating control charts for X and R; Checklist of necessary steps in using X
and R charts; Some comments on computer software for statistical process control.
UNIT II
Why the control chart works; statistical concepts
The need for understanding statistical principles; Description of patterns of variation;
Graphic representation of a frequency distribution; Averages and measures of dispersion;
Sampling statistics and universe parameters; The normal curve; Other frequency curves;
Interpretation of average and standard deviation of a set of numbers.
Why the control charts works; examples
The use of control charts to judge whether or not a constant system of chance causes is
present; Use of the control chart in interpretation of a frequency distribution; Contribution of
the control chart to elimination of causes of trouble; Changes in universe average; Shift in
universe dispersion with no change in universe average; Change in universe average and
universe dispersion; A possible view of the question answered by a control chart;
Nonproduct applications of control charts for variables; Conflicting expressions for the
standard deviation of a set of numbers.
UNIT III
Some fundamentals of the theory of probability
Probability and its mathematical meaning; Modern concepts of probability theory; Some
theorems of the theory of probability; Infinite and finite universes; The hypergeometric
probability distribution; The binomial as a probability distribution; The Poisson law as a
probability distribution; The normal distribution; Deciding on the method to be used for
calculating probabilities in industrial sampling problems; Relationship between control charts
and certain other statistical techniques; Random variables; Point estimates and estimators;
The problem of selecting a parameter to describe universe dispersion and of choosing an
estimator for that parameter; Sampling from a normal distribution; Theory of extreme runs.
167
UNIT IV
The control chart for fraction rejected
Some practical limitations of control charts for variables; Control charts for attributes;
Control charts for fraction rejected; The binomial as a probability law that determines the
fluctuations of fraction rejected; Control limits for the p chart; Problems introduced by
variable subgroup size; Checklist of necessary steps in connection with control chart for
fraction rejected; Sensitivity of the p chart; Nonproduct applications of p and np charts; p
charts are not suitable for all data on fraction rejected – why.
The control chart for nonconformities
The place of the c chart in statistical process control; Distinction between a nonconforming
article and a nonconformity; Limits for the c chart are based on the Poisson distribution; The
combination of Poisson distributions; Conditions favorable to the economic use of the
control chart for nonconformities; Adaptations of the c chart to variations in the area of
opportunity for a nonconformity; Probability limits for c and u charts; The u charts for
nonconformities per multiple units.
UNIT V
TQM principles and practices
Definition; Basic approach; Gurus of TQM; TQM framework; Awareness; Defining quality;
Historical reviews; Obstacles; Benefits of TQM; TQM exemplary organization.
Continuous process improvement
Intoduction; Process; The Juran Trilogy; Improvement strategies; Types of problems; The
PDSA Cycle; Problem-solving method; Kaizen; Reengineering; Six-Sigma; TQM Exemplary
Organization.
TEXT BOOK
Statistical Quality Control by Eugene Grant; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
1. Total Quality Control by Armand V. Feigenbaum; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Introduction to Statistical Quality Control by D.C.Montgomery; Publisher: John Wiley.
168
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech. AE II SEM L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 0 3
(R11MED1156) FRACTURE MECHANICS
UNIT I
Introduction; Historical perspective; Fracture mechanics approach to design – energy
criterion, stress intensity approach, time-dependant crack growth and damage tolerance;
Effect of material properties on fracture; Brief review of dimensional analysis.
UNIT II
Linear elastic fracture mechanics
An atomic view of fracture; Stress concentration effect of flaws; Griffith energy balance –
comparison with critical stress criterion, and modified Griffith equation; Energy release rate;
Instability and the R Curve – Reasons for the R curve shape, load control vs. displacement
control, and structures with finite compliance; Stress analysis of cracks – stress intensity
factor, relationship between K and global behavior, effect of finite size, principle of
superposition, and weight functions; Relationship between K and G.
UNIT III
(Contd) Linear elastic fracture mechanics
Crack Tip Plasticity – The Irwin Approach, Strip-yield model, Comparison of plastic zone
corrections, plastic zone shape; K controlled fracture; Plane Strain fracture – Crack-tip
triaxiality, effect of thickness on apparent fracture toughness, plastic zone effects,
implications for cracks in structures; Mixed Mode fracture – propagation of an angled crack,
equivalent Mode I crack, and Biaxial loading; Interaction of multiple cracks – coplanar
cracks, and parallel cracks.
UNIT IV
Elastic plastic fracture mechanics
Crack tip opening displacement; J contour integral – nonlinear energy release rate, J as a
path independent line integral, J as a stress intensity parameter, large strain zone, and
laboratory measurement of J; Relationships between J and CTOD; Crack-growth resistance
curves – stable and unstable crack growth, and computation of J for a growing crack; J
controlled fracture – stationary cracks, and J controlled crack growth; Crack-tip constraint
under large scale yielding – elastic T stress, and J-Q theory.
169
UNIT V
Dynamic and time dependent fracture
Dynamic fracture and crack arrest - rapid loading of a stationary crack; Rapid crack
propagation and crack arrest – crack speed, elastodynamic crack tip parameters, dynamic
toughness, and crack arrest; Dynamic contour integrals.
TEXT BOOK
Fracture Mechanics: Introduction and Applications by T.L. Anderson; Publisher: CRC Press.
170
