SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/r11/R11CSE.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE
AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
Computer Science Engineering
B.TECH. FOUR YEAR DEGREE COURSE
)
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2011-2012
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND
TECHNOLOGY
(AFFILIATED TO JNTUH)
An Autonomous Institute under JNTUH
Bachupally, Nizampet (S.O),
Hyderabad – 500090
Andhra Pradesh, India
1
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute under JNTUH
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS 2011 FOR B.TECH. DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for Students admitted from the academic year 2011-2012)
1. Courses of study
The following courses of study are offered at present for specialization for the B. Tech.
Course:
Branch Code Branch
01 Civil Engineering.
02 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
03 Mechanical Engineering
04 Electronics and Communication Engineering
05 Computer Science and Engineering.
10 Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
12 Information Technology
24 Automobile Engineering
1.1 Eligibility Criteria for Admission
The eligibility criteria for admission into engineering programmes shall be as
mentioned below:
The candidate shall be an Indian National.
The candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st December
of the academic year for which the admissions are being conducted.
The Candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or equivalent
as on the date of admission.
Seats in each programme in the Institution are classified into Category A and
Category B as per the G.Os.
2
1.1.1 Category – A Seats
These seats will be filled through counseling as per the rank at the Common
Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by the State Government and State
Government GOs as per other admission criteria laid down in the G.Os.
1.1.2 Category - B Seats
These seats will be filled by the institute as per the G.Os. Issued by State
Government from time to time.
1.1.3 Category: Lateral Entry
He candidates shall be admitted into the Third Semester, based on the rank
secured by the candidate at Engineering Common Entrance Test (ECET(FDH)) by
the Convener, ECET.
2. Distribution and Weightage of Marks
i. The performance of a student in each Semester shall be evaluated subject –wise
with a maximum of 100 marks for theory and 75 marks for practical subjects. In
addition, an Industry oriented mini-project, Seminar, Comprehensive viva-voce, and
Project Work shall be evaluated for 50, 50, 50 and 200 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects the distribution shall be 30 marks for Internal Evaluation and
70 marks for the End-Examination.
For theory subjects, Two mid examinations will be conducted in each Semester as
per the academic calendar. Each mid examination is evaluated for 25 marks. First
mid examination should be conducted for 1 – 2 ½ Units of syllabus and the second
mid examination shall be conducted for 2 ½ - 5 Units of syllabus. The mid descriptive
type exam paper consists of Section-A and Section-B.
Section-A [compulsory] consists of 5 short answer questions and each carries one
mark.
Section-B consists of 5 questions out of which 4 are to be answered and each
question carries 5 marks. The time duration of each mid examination is 90 minutes.
Two assignments are to be given to students covering the syllabus of first mid and
second Mid examinations and are evaluated for 5 marks each. .
The first assignment shall be submitted before first mid examinations and second
Assignment should be submitted before second mid examination.
3
At the end of the Semester Internal Marks Maximum 30 for the respective subjects
are allotted as follows:
(a) 25 marks for the better of the two mid term examinations
(b) 5 marks of the average of the two assignment marks
iii. For practical subjects there shall be a continuous evaluation during the Semester for
25 internal marks and 50 marks for end examination. Out of the 25 marks for
internal, day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be evaluated for 10 marks, and
10 marks for internal examination (two internal practical examinations will be
conducted and the better of the two examinations will be taken into account) and 5
marks for laboratory record.
NOTE: A student who is absent for any assignment/Mid term examination for any reason
what so ever shall be deemed to have secured ‘zero’ marks in the
test/examination and no makeup test/examination shall be conducted.
iv For the subjects having design and / or drawing, (such as Engineering Graphics,
Engineering Drawing, Machine Drawing, Production Drawing Practice, and
Estimation etc., the distribution shall be 30 marks for internal evaluation (15
marks for day-to-day work and 15 marks for internal tests (the better of the two
examinations will be taken into account) and 70 marks for end examination.
There shall be two internal tests in a Semester.
iv. There shall be an industry-oriented mini-Project, in collaboration with an industry
of their specialization, to be taken up during the vacation after III year II Semester
examination. The mini project shall be evaluated during the IV year I Semester.
The industry oriented mini project shall be submitted in report form and should be
presented before a committee, which shall be evaluated for 50 marks. The
committee consists of Head of the Department, the supervisor of mini project and a
senior faculty member of the department. There shall be no internal assessment
for industry oriented mini project.
vi. There shall be a Seminar presentation in IV year II Semester. For the Seminar,
the student shall collect the information on a specialized topic other than the project
topic and prepare a technical report, showing his understanding of the topic, and
submit to the department, which shall be evaluated by a Departmental committee
consisting of the Head of the department, Seminar supervisor and a senior faculty
member. The Seminar report shall be evaluated for 50 marks. There shall be no
external examination for Seminar.
4
vii. There shall be a Comprehensive Viva-Voce in IV year II Semester. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce will be conducted by a Committee consisting of the Head
of the Department and three Senior Faculty members of the Department. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce is aimed to assess the student’s understanding in various
subjects studied during the B.Tech. course of study. The Comprehensive Viva-
Voce is evaluated for 50 marks by the Committee. There will be no internal
assessment for the Comprehensive viva-voce.
viii. The Project work shall be started by the student in the beginning of the IV year I
Semester. Out of a total of 200 marks for the project work, 60 marks shall be for
Internal Evaluation and 140 marks for the Semester end Examination. The
Semester end Examination (viva-voce) shall be conducted by a committee
comprising of an external examiner, Head of the Department and the project
supervisor. The evaluation of project work shall be conducted at the end of the IV
year II Semester. The Internal Evaluation shall be on the basis of three
Seminars conducted during the IV year II Semester for 30 marks by the
committee consisting of Head of the Department, project supervisor and
senior faculty member of the Department and for 30 marks by the supervisor
of the project.
3. Semester end Examination
(a) Theory Courses
Each course is evaluated for 70 marks. Examination is of 3 hours duration.
Question paper contains two sections [Section-A and Section-B]
Section-A: Carries 30 marks [Five questions of one mark each, five questions of two
marks each and another five questions of three marks each] which is compulsory.
Section-B: carries 40 marks consisting of six essay type questions out of which four
questions to be answered, each carrying 10 marks.
Drawing related subjects, question paper contains 8 questions (atleast one
question from each unit), out of which the candidate has to answer any 5 questions,
each carrying 14 marks.
(b) Practical Courses
Each lab course is evaluated for 50 marks. The examination shall be conducted by
the laboratory teacher and another senior teacher concerned with the subject of the
same/other department/Industry. The external examiner may be appointed by the
Chief Superintendent in consultation with HOD as and when required.
5
(c ) Supplementary Examinations
Supplementary examinations will be conducted along with regular Semester end
examinations. (During even Semester regular examinations, supplementary examinations
of odd Semester and during odd Semester regular examinations, supplementary
examinations of even Semester will be conducted).
4. Attendance Requirements
i. A student shall be eligible to appear for the Semester end examinations if he acquires a
minimum of 75% of attendance in aggregate of all the subjects for Semester / year.
ii. Condonation of shortage of attendance in aggregate up to 10% (65% and above
and below 75%) in a Semester may be granted by Institute Academic Committee.
iii. A student will not be permitted to write the end examination and hence not promoted to
the next Semester unless he satisfies the attendance requirement of the present
Semester, as applicable. They may seek re-admission for that Semester when offered
next.
iv. Shortage of Attendance below 65% in aggregate shall in NO case be condoned.
v. Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned in any Semester are not eligible
to take their end examination of that Semester.
vi. A stipulated fee shall be payable towards condonation of shortage of attendance.
5. Minimum Academic Requirements
The following academic requirements have to be satisfied in addition to the attendance
requirements mentioned in item No.4.
i. A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic requirements and
earned the credits allotted to each theory or practical design or drawing subject or
project, if he secures not less than 35% (25 out of 70 marks) of marks in the end
examination and a minimum of 40% of marks in the sum total of the internal
evaluation and end examination taken together.
ii. A student shall be promoted from II to III year only if he fulfils the academic
requirement of 37 credits from Two regular and one supplementary examinations
of I year I Semester and One Regular and One Supplementary exam of I year II
6
Semester, and one regular examination of II year I Semester irrespective of whether
the candidate takes the examination or not.
iii. A student shall be promoted from III year to IV year only if he fulfils the academic
requirements of total 62 credits from the following examinations, whether the
candidate takes the examinations or not.
 Three regular and Two supplementary examinations of I B Tech I Semester.
 Two regular and two Supplementary examinations for I B Tech II Semester
 Two regular and one supplementary examinations up to the end of II year I
Semester.
 One regular and one supplementary examinations of II year II Semester.
 One regular examination of III year I Semester.
iv. A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 200 credits
and earn the 200 credits. Marks obtained in all 200 credits shall be considered for
the calculation of percentage of marks.
v. Students who fail to earn 200 credits as indicated in the course structure within eight
academic years from the year of their admission shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech.
course and their admission shall stand get cancelled.
6. Course pattern
i. The entire course of study is of four academic years. All the I, II, III and IV years
are of Semester pattern .
ii. A student eligible to appear for the end examination in a subject, but absent or has
failed in the end examination may reappear for that subject at the supplementary
examination whenever conducted.
iii. When a student is detained due to shortage of attendance in any Semester, he may
be re-admitted into that Semester when it is offered next, with the academic
regulations of the batch into which he gets readmitted.
iv. When a student is detained due to lack of credits in any year, he may be eligible to
be promoted or for promotion into the next year after fulfillment of the academic
requirements, with the academic regulations of the batch into which he gets
admitted
7. Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
A student will be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. Degree if he/she
fulfils the following academic regulations:
7
I. Pursued a course of study for not less than four academic years and not more
than eight academic years.
ii. Registered for 200 credits and secured 200 credits.
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award of the
degree within eight academic years from the year of their admission, shall forfeit their
seat in B.Tech. Course.
Iii After a student has satisfied the requirements prescribed for the completion of
the program and is eligible for the award of B. Tech. Degree he shall be placed in
one of the following four classes:
Class Awarded % of marks to be secured
First Class with Distinction 70% and above
First Class Below 70% but not less than 60% From the aggregate
Second Class Below 60% but not less than 50% marks secured for
the 200 Credits.
Pass Class Below 50% but not less than 40%
Fail Below 40%
(The marks in internal evaluation and end examination shall be shown separately in the marks
memorandum).
8. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to College, or if any case of indiscipline is pending
against him, the result of the candidate may be withheld and he will not be allowed to
go into the next higher Semester. The award or issue of the Degree may also be
withheld in such cases.
9. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or any
other academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and when they
become eligible. They have to take up Equivalent subjects, as substitute subject in
place of repetition of subjects as decided by the Institute Academic Committee.
8
10. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each Semester shall be 90 clear instruction
days.
11. There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission process.
12. The decision of the Institute Academic Committee will be final in respect of
equivalent subjects for those students who are transferred from other
colleges. The procedure for permitting students to transfer from other colleges
will be decided by the principal / Institute Academic Committee keeping the
Government Rules concerned in view.
13. General
i. Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include “she”, “her”,
“hers”.
ii. The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
iii. In the case of any doubt or ambiguity in the interpretation of the above rules, the
decision of the Principal is final.
iv. In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arises in the above rules and
regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
v. The College may change or amend any or all of the academic regulations or syllabi at
any time and the changes or amendments made shall be applicable to all the students
concerned with effect from the dates notified by the College.
14. Academic Regulations for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2012-2013)
(i) A student shall register for all 150 credits and earn all the 150 credits. Marks
obtained in all 150 credits shall be considered for the calculation of the class.
(ii) A student who fails to earn 150 credits as indicated in the course structure
within six academic years from the year of their admission shall forfeit their
seat in B.Tech. programme and their admission stands cancelled.
(iii) The same attendance regulations are adopted as that of B.Tech. Four year
degree course.
(iv) A student shall be promoted from third year to fourth year only on fulfilling the
academic requirements of securing 37 credits from the following examinations.
9
a. Two regular and one supplementary examination of II year I Semester
b. One regular and one supplementary examination of II year II Semester
c. One regular examination of III year I Semester.
Irrespective of whether the candidate appears the Semester-End examination or not as
per the normal course of study and in case of getting detained for want of credits the
student may make up the credits through supplementary exams of the above exams
before the date of commencement of class work for IV year I Semester.
(v) Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
After a student has satisfied the requirements prescribed for the completion of the
program and is eligible for the award of B. Tech. Degree he shall be placed in one of
the following four classes:
Class Awarded % of marks to be secured
First Class with Distinction 70% and above
First Class Below 70% but not less than 60%
From the aggregate
Second Class Below 60% but not less than 50%
marks secured for
Pass Class Below 50% but not less than 40%
the 150 Credits.
Fail Below 40%
(i.e., II year to IV
year)
(The marks in internal evaluation and end examination shall be shown separately in the marks
memorandum)
(vi) All other regulations as applicable to B.Tech. four year degree course will hold
good for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme).
10
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs):
The educational objectives of an engineering degree program are the statements that describe
the expected achievements of graduates in their career, and also in particular, what the
graduates are expected to perform and achieve during the first few years after graduation.
PEOs are broad statements- Describe the career and professional accomplishments that the
program prepares its graduates to accomplish.
I. To apply current industry accepted computing practices and new emerging
technologies to analyze, design, implement and verify high quality computer-based
solutions to real world problems and to work professionally in one or more following
areas: Computer hardware and software design, computer-based systems,
computer network design, system integration, maintaining the databases, and
electronic automations.
II. To familiarize students with the practical implementation of the theoretical concept
learned, by bringing the real world into the laboratories and to enhance the analytical
skills of the students with VNR lab protocols like the design and development of PC
Based Search Engine, Performance comparison of Routing protocols.
III. To provide graduates with sufficient knowledge in computer science, basic
engineering and related technical disciplines like Electronic devices and circuits,
Digital systems, Microprocessors and controllers and embedded systems.
Graduates will have basic computational skills strengthened with underlying
computer architecture and hardware specifications, and supplemented with
presentation skills, design skills. Student should be able to undertake multi-
disciplinary projects which span relevant engineering disciplines, and also to
participate effectively in multi-disciplinary activities.
IV. To communicate effectively, work with multi-disciplinary teams, recognize and
incorporate industry specific needs and constraints in their professional endeavors,
and practice the Computer Engineer profession with high regard to legal and ethical
responsibilities.
V. The students are trained to collect and consolidate information from various sources
like National and International Journals, online forums, e-learning which is
incorporated into the presentation of seminars and contributes to the literature
survey for projects like Virtual Class room, and Rural banking. Funding is provided
for innovative ideas of students so as to convert them into marketable product. The
students are also encouraged to participate in contests such as Live Projects, project
design contests etc., and also to incorporate team-work culture, finishing school and
entrepreneur training.
VI. Graduates have been trained to carter to the contemporary requirements of the
software industry with due focus on evolving technologies like Multimedia
Applications Development, Software testing Environments, Modeling Languages,
Data ware housing technologies and gain hands-on experience with respect to
prevalent application areas like e-commerce, e-governance. Students augment their
knowledge base through relevant certification in Information Technology.
11
3.1.1 Programme Outcomes (POs):
Students in the Computer Science & Engineering program should, at the time of their
graduation, are in possession of:
a. Graduates acquire an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, probability &
statistics, basic sciences, computer science and engineering which apply to the
fields of computer software and hardware.
b. Graduates demonstrate an ability to effectively communicate technical information in
speech, presentation, and in writing.
c. Graduates project their education skills in Management Science. Accounting,
Environmental Science in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context,
with knowledge of contemporary issues.
d. Students will project an ability to design and develop computer programs which
could be application oriented like designing Online Banking system application using
UML, Development of In-House applications like alumni portal, College Management
system or system oriented like Designing of Language translators, as well as to
organize, analyze, and interpret data.
e. Graduates acquire an ability to use several programming languages and frame
works such as C, C++, Java, SQL, DOT Net, Swings and different programming
paradigms like structured programming, object-oriented programming and their
implementation.
f. Engineering graduates demonstrate an ability to acquire sound knowledge in
theoretical computer science, software engineering and computer organization
concepts and the ability to apply that knowledge in formulating and implementing
computer-based solutions to problems like Intermediate code generator, design of
test case
g. Students demonstrate their skills to analyze algorithms, apply the knowledge of data
structures, use discrete structures and graph theory and analyze the Time and
space complexity of computer based solutions.
h. Graduates are equipped with the ability to engage in lifelong learning process, and
will be able to design systems and software components like design models, code,
test cases, tools and processes as per the needs of the Industry/society.
i. Graduate acquire the necessary skills to translate the theoretical concepts into
working models which help them to design engineering solutions to the industrial
needs with social commitment.
j. Graduates showcase the knowledge of computer engineering practices in a variety
of professional applications covering legal, business, scientific and general utilities.
k. Graduates demonstrate an ability to cultivate confidence for self-learning and
aptitude so as to face the global challenges from a higher level of education and
research.
l. To substantiate contemporary knowledge and technological developments by being
a continuous learner
12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH Computer Science Engineering
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11MTH1101 Mathematics – I 3 1 3
R11PHY1101 Engineering Physics-I 3 0 3
R11CHE1101 Engineering Chemistry 3 0 3
R11HAS1101 English 3 0 3
R11CSE1101 Computer Programming 3 0 3
R11EIE1126 Basic Electrical & Electronics Engineering 4 0 4
R11HAS1201 English Language Communication Skills 0 3 2
Laboratory-1
R11CSE1201 Computer Programming Laboratory 0 3 2
R11MED1202 Workshop Practice 0 3 2
Total 19 10 25
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11MTH1102 Mathematics – II 3 1 3
R11MTH1104 Numerical Analysis and Linear 3 1 3
Programming
R11PHY1102 Engineering Physics-II 3 0 3
R11CED1109 Environmental Studies 3 0 3
R11CSE1102 Data Structures 3 0 3
R11MED1105 Engineering Drawing 3 3 4
R11EPC1201 Engineering Physics & Engineering 0 3 2
Chemistry Laboratory
R11CSE1202 Data Structures Laboratory 0 3 2
R11HAS1202 English Language Communications 0 3 2
Skills Laboratory-II
13
Total 18 14 25
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH Computer Science Engineering
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lecture T/P/D Credit
s s
R11MTH1106 Probability and Statistics
3 1 3
R11CSE1103 Computer Organization
4 0 4
R11ITD1118 Advanced Data Structures
4 1 4
R11MTH1107 Mathematical Foundation for 3 0 3
Computer Science
R11CSE1117 Principles of Programming
3 1 3
Languages
R11ITD1119 Digital Logic Design
4 0 4
R11ITD1206 Advanced Data Structures
0 3 2
Laboratory
R11EIE1209 Basic Electrical and Electronics
0 3 2
Laboratory
Total 21 9 25
14
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH Computer Science Engineering
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11CSE1118 Computer Graphics and Animation
4 0 4
R11CSE1108 Operating Systems
3 1 3
R11HAS1102 Business Economics and Financial
4 0 4
Analysis
R11CSE1119 Design and Analysis of Algorithms
3 1 3
R11CSE1110 Database Management Systems
4 0 4
R11CSE1120 Software Engineering
3 1 3
R11CSE1203 Operating Systems Laboratory
0 3 2
R11CSE1208 Database Management Systems
0 3 2
Laboratory
Total 21 9 25
15
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH Computer Science Engineering
III YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11CSE1104 Formal Languages and Automata Theory 4
4 0
Microprocessors and Microcontrollers
R11ECE1108 4 0 4
R11CSE1105 Artificial Intelligence 4 0 4
R11CSE1114 Object Oriented Programming 4
4 0
Elective – I
R11CSE1109 Advanced Computer Architecture
R11CSE1111 Distributed Computing
3 1 3
R11ITD1123 Information Retrieval Systems
R11CSE1204 Object Oriented Programming 2
0 3
Laboratory
R11ECE1204 Microprocessors and Microcontrollers 2
0 3
Laboratory
R11HAS1204 Advanced English Language 2
0 3
Communication Skills Laboratory
Total 18 10 25
16
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH Computer Science Engineering
III YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11CSE1113 Computer Networks 3 1 3
R11CSE1123 Data Warehousing and Data Mining
4 0 4
R11ITD1120 Linux Programming
4 1 4
R11CSE1107 Compiler Design
4 1 4
R11CSE1121 Object Oriented Analysis and Design
4 0 4
R11CSE1206 Data Mining Laboratory
0 3 2
R11ITD1207 Linux Programming Laboratory
0 3 2
R11CSE1205 Object Oriented Analysis and Design and
0 3 2
Compiler Design Laboratory
Total
19 12 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
17
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH Computer Science Engineering
IV YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11CSE1122 Software Testing Methodologies 3 1 3
R11ITD1102 Web Technologies
3 1 3
R11CSE1124 Visual Programming Techniques 3 1 3
R11ITD1121 Network Security 3 1 3
R11HAS1103 Management Science 4 0 4
Elective – II
R11CSE1112 Mobile Computing
3 1 3
R11CSE1125 Distributed Data Bases
R11CSE1126 Soft computing
R11ITD1203 Web Technologies Laboratory 0 3 2
R11CSE1207 Visual Programming Techniques
0 3 2
Laboratory
R11CSE1301 Industry Oriented Mini Project 0 8 2
Total 19 19 25
18
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH Computer Science Engineering
IV YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11ITD1122 Software Project Management 3 1 3
Elective – III
R11CSE1115 Semantic Web and Social Networks
R11ECE1113 Digital Image Processing
3 1 3
R11ITD1124 Business Intelligence Applications
R11CSE1106 Introduction to Mainframe Systems
Elective – IV
R11CSE1116 Ad hoc and Sensor Networks
R11ITD1125 Building Enterprise Applications 3 1 3
R11ITD1126 E-Commerce
R11ITD1127 Storage Area Networks
R11CSE1302 Seminar 0 0 2
R11CSE1303 Comprehensive Viva 0 3 2
R11CSE1304 Project Work 6 12 12
Total 15 18 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
19
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE & IT – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MTH1101) MATHEMATICS – I
(Advanced Calculus)
Course Objectives:
1. Understand Taylor’s theorem and its application to maxima and minima of
f(x,y)
2. Understand the process of curve sketching
3. Understand multiple integrals and its applications
4. Apply the integral theorems of vector calculus.
Course Outcomes:
1. Solve problems involving the maxima and minima of f(x,y).
2. Apply the curve tracing concepts to find arc length of curves, surface area,
volume of solids of revolution.
3. Evaluate the multiple integrals using appropriate change of variables.
4. Verify the integral theorems.
Course
Mapping of CO's with PO's
name
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
PO-b PO-d
a c e f g h i j k l
CO-1 2
Mathematics
– I CO-2 2 2
CO-3 2 2 1
CO-4 2 2 1
UNIT I
Elementary analysis
Sequences and series - convergence and divergence, ratio test, comparison test, integral test,
Cauchy’s root test, Raabe’s test (statements only for the tests), and absolute and conditional
convergence.
Mean value theorems (statements only) - Rolle’s theorem, Lagrange’s theorem, Cauchy’s
theorem, and generalized mean value theorem (Taylor’s Theorem).
20
UNIT II
Functions of several variables
Partial differentiation; Functional dependence; Jacobian; Maxima and Minima of functions of
two variables with constraints and without constraints.
Radius of curvature; Centre and circle of curvature – evolutes and envelopes.
UNIT III
Improper integrals and special functions
Improper Integrals; Beta, Gamma, and Error functions - Properties and simple applications.
UNIT IV
Curve tracing, applications of integration and multiple integrals
Curve tracing – Cartesian, polar, and parametric curves; Applications of integration to lengths,
volumes and surface areas in cartesian and polar coordinates.
Multiple integrals - double and triple integrals, change of variables, and change of order of
integration.
UNIT-V
Vector calculus
Introduction to vector and scalar functions; gradient, curl, divergence, and their related
properties of sums and products; Laplacian and second order operators; Vector integration -
line integral, work done, potential function; Area, surface, and volume integrals; Statements of
Vector integral theorems and their verification (without proofs) - Green’s theorem, Stoke’s
theorem, and Gauss divergence theorem.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Calculus and Analytic Geometry - Thomas and Finney, 9th edition, Pearson
Education.
REFERENCES
1. Elementary Analysis: The Theory of Calculus - Kenneth Ross, Springer.
2. Principles of Mathematical Analysis - Walter Rudin, 3rd edition, Paperbac, 1976.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics - Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition, John Wiley.
4. Calculus - Tom M. Apostol, Volume1 and Volume 2, 2nd edition, John Wiley, 2003.
5. Schaum’s Outline of Vector Analysis - Murray R. Spiegel, 2nd edition, Tata McGraw
Hill 2011.
21
22
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE, IT – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11PHY1101) ENGINEERING PHYSICS-I
Course Objectives:
1. To supplement and enhance the basic concepts in Physics essentially
required in the study of materials as well as interaction of light with matter,
interaction of light with matter through physical phenomena like interference,
diffraction and polarization.
2. To know and understand some important applications of lasers and optical
fibers.
3. To learn the importance of wave and particle nature of light and to understand
the behavior of an electron in one dimensional potential box.
4. To understand the effect of temperature on Fermi Dirac Distribution Function
and also learn the behavior of an electron in a periodic potential, the new
concept of Effective mass of an electron and to know the classification of
materials into conductors, semiconductors and insulators.
Course Outcomes:
1. Understand the Phenomenon of Interference, Diffraction& Polarization.
2. Learn the principle, working, construction and energy mechanism of various
lasers and their applications Explain the light signal propagation and
attenuation through optical fiber.
3. Understand the differences between particle and wave nature, energy states
in one dimensional potential box and also the Consequences of Heisenberg’s
Uncertainty principle.
4. Understand the one dimensional Schrodinger’s wave equation and the effect
of temperature on Fermi-Dirac Distribution, Kronig Penny model.
23
Course
Mapping of CO's with PO's
name
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
PO-b PO-d
a c e f g h i j k l
CO-1
2
Engineering CO-2
2 1
Physics-I
CO-3
1
CO-4
2 1
UNIT –I
INTERFERENCE AND DIFFRACTION: Superposition principle, resultant amplitude,
coherence, methods to obtain coherent sources, interference, Young’s double slit experiment,
interference in thin films by reflection, Newton’s rings Experiment, Distinguish between
Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction, diffraction at single slit (Qualitative and
Quantitative(Phasors approach)), double slit, circular aperture, and multiple slits (grating)(
Qualitative Approach). Resolution of spectral lines, Rayleigh criterion, resolving power of
grating and telescope.
UNIT - II
POLARIZATION: Polarization phenomenon, Brewster’s Law and Malus law, examples, types
of polarization, double refraction, Nicol prism, Quarter and Half wave plates
LASERS: Characteristics of Lasers – Spontaneous and Stimulated Emission of radiation, meta
stable state, population inversion, lasing action, Einstein’s coefficients and relation between
them –– Ruby Laser – Helium-Neon Laser – Carbon dioxide laser - Semiconductor Laser –
Applications of lasers.
UNIT - III
FIBER OPTICS: Principle of optical fiber – Acceptance angle and acceptance cone –
Numerical aperture – - Types of fibers and refractive index profiles – Qualitative analysis of
attenuation in optical fibers –Application of optical fibers.
CRYSTAL STRUCTURES: Space lattice – Unit cell – Lattice parameter – Crystal systems –
Bravais lattices Atomic radius – Co-ordination number - Structures and Packing fractions of
Simple Cubic – Body Centered Cubic – Face Centered Cubic crystals – Hexagonal closed
packed crystals - Structures of diamond, NaCl.
UNIT - IV
DIRECTIONS, PLANES AND X-RD: Miller Indices for Crystal planes and directions – Inter
planar spacing of orthogonal crystal systems –Diffraction of X-rays by crystal planes and
Bragg’s law– Laue method – Powder method – Applications of X-ray diffraction
24
BONDING IN SOLIDS: Force and energy between two approaching atoms, primary and
secondary bonds, binding energy and cohesive energy, Madelung constant, cohesive energy
and Madelung constant for NaCl crystal.
DEFECTS IN SOLIDS: Imperfections in crystals – Point defects (Vacancies, Interstitial and
Impurities) Schottky and Frenkel defects – (with mathematical treatment)- Line imperfections –
Edge and Screw dislocation – Burger vector – Surface defects and volume defects (Qualitative
Treatment).
UNIT - V
SURFACE PHYSICS: Surface Electronic structure( work function, thermionic emission, surface
states, tangential surface transport), Electron Microscope, Scanning Tunneling Microscope.
SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY OF NANOMATERIALS:Origin of nanotechnology – (Basic
principles of Nanoscience & Technology) surface to volume ratio, quantum confinement –
Fabrication of nano materials Bottom up fabrication: sol-gel & combustion methods – Top
down fabrication: CVD& PVD methods– Characterization (XRD & TEM) - Applications of
nanotechnology.
TEXT BOOKS:
(1) Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel : John Wiley & Sons
(2) Physics vol.2, by Halliday, Resnick and Krane; John Wiley & Sons
(3) Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd.
(4) Optics by Ghatak and Thyagarajan, Tata Mc Graw
REFERENCE BOOKS:
(1) Engineering Physics by R.K.Gaur and S.L.Gupta; Dhanpat Rai and Sons
(2) Solid State Physics by S.O.Pillai
(3) Engineering Physics by M Chandra Shekar and P. Appala Naidu, VGS Book links.
(4) Solid State Physics by A.J.Dekker; Macmillan Publishers India Ltd.
(5) Solid State Physics by N.W.Ashcroft & N.David Merwin. Thomson Learning
(6) Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
(7) Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
(8) Introduction to Optical Communication by G. Keiser
(9) Fundamentals of Molecular Spectroscopy by Banwell, Tata McGraw Hill
25
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE & IT – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11CHE1101) ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
Course Objectives:
1. Understand electrochemistry which deals with the utilization of electrical
energy of an external source for bringing about a physical or chemical
change.
2. Knowledge of “Corrosion engineering education” and Usage of polymers in
modern world as an integral part of every human’s life.
3. Knowledge of purification techniques and various applications of soft water in
industries.
4. Usage of nanomaterial’s as emerging scientific components with amazing
potential applications in various fields.
Course Outcomes:
1. Visualize the chemical applications of electricity.
2. Prevention of corrosion of metals and applications of polymers from domestic
articles to sophisticated scientific and medical instruments.
3. Benefits of treated water as source in steam generation and other fields like
production of steel, paper, textiles, atomic energy etc.
4. The applicability and greater efficiency of using a material at nanoscale in
different engineering fields.
Course
Mapping of CO's with PO's
name
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
PO-b PO-d
a c e f g h i j k l
CO-1 1
Engineering
Chemistry CO-2 1 2
CO-3 2
CO-4 2 1 2
26
UNIT- I
Electrochemical cells and Batteries:
Cell representation, Galvanic cells, Single electrode potential, standard electrode potential,
Electrochemical series, Nernst equation, Concentration cells. Reference electrodes –
(Hydrogen, Calomel, Quinhydrone electrode), Ion Selective Electrodes (Glass Electrode &
Flouride Electrode), Numerical problems.
Batteries: Primary and secondary cells, (lead-Acid cell, Ni-Cd cell, Lithium cells). Applications
of batteries.Fuel cells – Hydrogen – Oxygen fuel cells, Advantages of fuel cells. Solar cells:
working, principle and applications.
UNIT- II
Corrosion and its control:Introduction, causes and different types of corrosion and effects of
corrosion. Theories of corrosion – Chemical, Electrochemical corrosion, corrosion reactions,
factors affecting corrosion – Nature of metal – galvanic series, over voltage, purity of metal,
nature of oxide film, nature of corrosion product. Nature of environment -effect of temperature,
effect of pH, Humidity, effect of oxidant.
Corrosion control methods – cathodic protection, sacrificial anode, impressed current cathode.
Surface coatings – methods of application on metals - hot dipping, galvanizing, tinning,
cladding, electroplating -Organic surface coatings – paints constituents and functions.
UNIT- III
Polymers:
III a).Polymers: Introduction, Types of Polymerization, Plastics: Thermoplastic resins &
Thermoset resins. Compounding & fabrication of plastics, preparation, properties, engineering
applications of: polyethylene, PVC, PS, Teflon, Bakelite, Nylon.
III b).Rubber: Characteristics and uses Rubber –Natural rubber, vulcanization. Elastomers –
Buna-s, Butyl rubber, Thiokol rubbers, Fibers – polyester, Fiber reinforced plastics (FRP),
applications.
UNIT- IV
Water:Introduction, Hardness: Causes, expression of hardness – units – types of hardness,
estimation of temporary & permanent hardness of water, numerical problems. Boiler troubles –
Scale & sludge formation, caustic embrittlement, corrosion, priming & foaming Softening of
water (Internal & external treatment-Lime soda, Zeolite, Ion exchange process and Numerical
problems) Reverse osmosis, Electro dialysis.
UNIT- V
27
Nano-materials: Introduction, preparation and applications of nanomaterials with special
reference to Carbon nano tubes.
Insulators: Classification of insulators, characteristics of thermal & electrical insulators and
applications of Superconductors (Nb-Sn alloy, YBa Cu O ).
2 3 7-x
TEXT BOOKS
1. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna Cherukuri, VGS
Book Links, Vijayawada.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain & Monica Jain, Dhanpatrai Publishing Company.
REFERENCES
1. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara & Mukkanti, S.Chand & Co. New
Delhi.
2. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by C.P.Murthy, C.V.Agrawal, Naidu,
B.S.Publications,Hyderabad.
3. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan,D.Venkappayya,Sulochana
Nagarajan, Vikas Publishers.
28
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE, IT – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11HAS1101) ENGLISH
Course Objectives:
1. To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for advanced writing and
speaking.
2. To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns and
grammatical constructions required in technical writing as well as oral
presentation
3. To acquaint the students with the writing process in preparation for
academic and workplace writing.
4. To acquaint the students with the reading process in preparation for
academic reading.
Course Outcomes:
1. Comprehend technical writing produced in the engineering profession
2. Understand the writing process and create logical paragraphs
3. Use infrastructural patterns in writing and speaking
Course
Mapping of CO's with PO's
name
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
PO-b PO-d
a c e f g h i j k l
CO-1 2 2 2
English
CO-2 2 2 2
CO-3 2 2 2
Introduction
This is the age of information and communication technologies. Engineers and technical
professionals need to convey technical information in English for various purposes.
Besides learning general English as an international language, engineering students need to
be equipped with adequate writing ability so that they can communicate technical information
clearly on at least a basic level. A good English writing proficiency can be a contributing factor
to professional recognition and career prospects. This course teaches those writing strategies
that scientists, engineers, and others will need in order to write successfully on the job. It
initiates the students into Technical Writing. The purposes of technical writing are to inform and
persuade. This program aims to train students in writing clear, concise and effective English.
29
This Syllabus is therefore, a Pragmatic English Writing Program for engineering students with
intermediate proficiency. The program covers a syllabus outline and instructional approaches
on basic writing skills with particular reference to technical writing.
Objectives:
i) To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for advanced writing and
speaking.
ii) To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns and
grammatical constructions required of in technical writing.
iii) To acquaint the students with the writing process, beginning with paragraph
writing. This would prepare them for academic and workplace writing.
iv) Equip the students with Oral Communication Skills.
Methodology
A Task-based, process oriented methodology will be used by the teachers to give a practical
orientation to the teaching of language. An inductive approach will be used to demonstrate the
use of language in context. This should enable the students to internalize the language
structures and vocabulary used in context. Students will be exposed to numerous examples
and ample practice will be given in the contextual use of language structures.
Syllabus Outline
Unit I : Prose
1. Heaven’s Gate by Pico Iyer
2. The Connoisseur by Nergis Dalal
Unit II : Basic Grammar
i) Common Errors v) Use of Articles and Prepositions
ii) Subject-Verb Agreement vi) Conjunctions
iii) Adverbs vii) pronoun reference
iv) Transitional elements
Unit III Reading and Writing Skills
i) Reading Comprehension vi) Synonyms and Antonyms
ii) Paragraph Writing vii) One Word Substitutes
iii) Letter Writing viii) Prefixes and Suffixes
iv) Memo Writing ix) Idioms and Phrases
v) Words often Confused
Unit IV : Prose
1. The Cuddalore Experience by Anu George
2. The Odds Against Us by Satyajit Ray
Unit V : Technical Writing Component
A. Definition of a Technical Term
B. Description of a Mechanism
C. Description of a Technical Process
D. Classification
30
E. Cause and Effect
F. Comparison and Contrast
G. Analogy
Prescribed Text Books
1. Effective Technical Communication Ashraf Rizv
2. Technical Communication : Principles and Practices,M. Raman and S. Sharma,
OUP, 2004. (Indian Edition)
References
1. Technical Writing Process and Product.Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson : 3rd
edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
2. Composition Practice, Book Blanton, L.L. 1993; 4 ,Second Edition, Heinle & Heinle
Publishers, pp. 54
3. A course in Analytical Writing for Science and Technology,Georges, T.M. 1996
http://www.mspiggy.etl.noaa.gov/write/
4. Oxford English for Electrical and Mechanical Engineering,Glendinning, E.H. and
Glendinning, N. 1995; Oxford University Press, pp.28,68,83
5. Summary Writing and Sentence Structure in the Advanced ESL Classroom,
Greaney, G.L. 1997; Less is More: The Internet TESL Journal, Vol.III, No.9
http://iteslj.org/Techniques/Greaney-Writing.html
6. A Handbook for Technical Communication,Neufeld, J.K. 1987; Prentice-Hall, Inc.
pp.20,65-68
7. Principles of Course Design for Language Teaching, Yalden, J. 1987; Cambridge
University Press
8. David F. Beer and David McMurrey, Guide to Writing as an Engineer, 2nd ed., Wiley,
2004, ISBN: 0471430749.
9. Dale Jungk, Applied Writing for Technicians, McGraw-Hill, 2005, ISBN 0-07-828357-4.
10. Diane Hacker, Pocket Style Manual, Bedford/St. Martin's, 2003, ISBN: 0312406843.
31
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE & IT – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11CSE1101) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING
Course objectives
1. Learn how to write modular, efficient and readable C programs
2. Declare and manipulate single and multi-dimensional arrays of the C data
types.
3. Describe the techniques for creating program modules in C using functions
and recursive functions.
4. Create and manage derived data types and perform operations on files.
5. Utilize pointers and dynamic memory allocation functions to efficiently solve
problems
Course Outcomes:
1. Understand the fundamentals of C programming.
2. Choose the loops and decision making statements to solve the problem.
3. Usage of different derived data types and the concepts of files
4. Implement different c concepts in problem solving.
Course
Mapping of CO's with PO's
name
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
PO-b PO-d
a c e f g h i j k l
CO-1 2 2 2 1
Computer
Programming CO-2 2 2 2 1 1 1
CO-3 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1
CO-4 2 2 2 1 1 1
UNIT- I
Introduction to Computers – Computer Systems, Computing Environments (DOS/Linux),
Computer languages, Linux commands , creating and running programs, Software
Development Methods, Algorithms, Pseudo code, flow charts, applying the software
development method.
UNIT - II
32
Introduction to C Language – History, Simple C Programme, Identifiers, Basic data types,
Variables, Constants, type qualifiers, Input / Output, Operators. Expressions, Precedence and
Associativity, Expression Evaluation, Type conversions, Bit wise operators, Statements, Simple
C Programming examples.
Selection Statements – if and switch statements, Repetition statements – while, for, do-while
statements, Loop examples, other statements related to looping – break, continue, go to, C
Programming examples.
UNIT - III
Designing Structured Programs, Functions- basics, user defined functions, inter function
communication, Standard functions, Scope, Storage classes-auto, register, static, extern,
scope rules, recursive functions, example C programs.
Arrays – Basic concepts, one-dimensional arrays, two – dimensional arrays, multidimensional
arrays, arrays to functions, C program examples.
Strings – Basic concepts, String Input / Output functions, arrays of strings, string handling
functions, strings to functions, C programme examples.
UNIT - IV
Derived types – Structures – Basic concepts, nested structures, arrays of structures, structures
and functions, unions, typedef, bit fields, enumerated types, C programming examples.
Pointers – Basic concepts, pointers and functions, pointers and strings, pointers and arrays,
pointers and structures, self referential structures , example C programs.
UNIT - V
File I/O – Basic concepts, text files and binary files, file input / output operations, file status
functions (error handling), C program examples.
Preprocessor Directives, Dynamic Memory Allocation, Command-Line Arguments.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. C programming A Problem-Solving Approach by Behrouz
A.Forouzan,E.V.Prasad,Richard F.Gilberg
2. The C Programming Language by Brian W. Kernighan, Dennis M. Ritchie
REFERENCES:
1. Let Us C Yashavant kanetkar BPB
2. C How to Program Paul Deitel and Harvey Deitel , PH
3. Absolute beginner's guide to C, Greg M. Perry, Edition 2,Publisher: Sams Pub.,
1994
33
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE & IT– I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11EIE1126) Basic Electrical & Electronics Engineering
Course Objectives:
1. To understand the basic concepts of circuit analysis
2. To analyze electrical circuits using network theorems and analysis of AC
circuits
3. To learn principle of operation, construction and characteristics of various
electronic devices.
4. To know about different applications of these devices
Course Outcomes:
1. To apply basic network theorems for solving electrical networks.
2. Analyze various Electrical networks using Kirchhoff’s laws.
3. To use the electronic devices in real time applications
4. Calculate h-parameters of BJT under various configurations.
Course
Mapping of CO's with PO's
name
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
PO-b PO-d
a c e f g h i j k l
Basic CO-1 2 2 1 1 2 2
Electrical &
Electronics CO-2 2 2 1 1 2 2
Engineering CO-3 1 1 2 2 2 2
CO-4 2 2 2 2 2 2
UNIT I: Introduction to Electrical Engineering:
Basic circuit components, Types of elements, types of sources, Ohm’s law, Kirchhoff’s laws,
Simple problems. resistive networks, inductive networks, capacitive networks, series, parallel
circuits, star delta and delta star transformation, Network theorems- Super position,
Thevenins’s, Norton’s, Maximum power transfer theorems and simple problems.
34
UNIT II: Alternating Quantities:
Principles of ac voltages, waveforms and basic definitions, root mean square and average
values of alternating currents and voltages, form factor and peak factor, phasor representation
of alternating quantities, the J operator and phasor algebra, analysis of ac circuits with single
basic network element, single phase series circuits.
UNIT III: Diode: characteristics, Rectifiers and Filters:
Qualitative theory of p-n junction, p-n junction as a diode, diode equation, v-i characteristics,
temperature dependence of VI characteristics, Ideal versus practical -resistance levels (static
and dynamic), transition and diffusion capacitances, diode equivalent circuits, p-n junction as a
rectifier , half wave, full wave and Bridge rectifiers. Filters : Inductor, Capacitor, L-section and
π section filters. ripple factor. Breakdown mechanisms in pn junction diodes, zener diode
characteristics, simple circuit of regulator using zener diode.
UNIT IV: Bipolar Junction Transistor
Junction transistor, Transistor current components, transistor as an amplifier, Transistor
Construction, BJT operation, BJT symbol, Configurations: Common Base, Common Emitter
and Common Collector.
Biasing and Stabilization:
Operating point, The DC and AC load lines, Need for biasing, Fixed bias, collector feedback
bias, Emitter feedback bias, Collector-Emitter feedback bias, Voltage divider bias, Bias stability,
Stabilization factors(S,S’,S”) definitions.
UNIT V: Field Effect Transistor:
The junction FET, Construction and principal of operation, symbol, Pinch off voltage, Drain and
Transfer characteristics, The JFET small signal model. MOSFET principal of operation,
symbol, MOSFET Characteristics in Enhancement and Depletion Mode.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Basic Electrical Engineering by M.S.Naidu and S.Kamakshiah – TMH
2. Electronic Devices and Circuits by J.Millman and C.C.Halkias, Tata McGraw Hill, 1998.
REFERENCES:
1. Electronic Devices and Circuits by A.P. Godse & U.A.Bakshi, Technical Publications.
2. Electrical Circuit Theory and Technology – by John Bird, Elsevier Science & Technology,
2007
3. Theory and Problems of Basic Electrical Engineering by D.P.Kothari & I.J.Nagrath PHI.
4. Electrical Circuit Analysis-by Sudhakar & Shyam Mohan, TMH
35
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE & IT – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11HAS1201) ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY-I
The English language Communication Skills Lab aims to provide practice in all the four skills of
LSRW, and provide ample practice in listening and speaking skills.
Course Objectives
1. Provide ample practice in LSRW skills and train the students in oral
presentations, public speaking, role play and situational dialogue.
2. Provide practice in vocabulary usage, grammatical construction, structural
patterns, and improve comprehension abilities in the students.
3. Train students to use neutral pronunciation through phonetic sounds,
symbols, stress and intonation.
4. Enable students to transfer information from verbal to graphic representation
and vice versa.
Course Outcomes:
1. Comprehend spoken and written discourse.
2. Speak fluently with neutral pronunciation and exhibit interpersonal skills.
3. Write accurately, coherently and lucidly making appropriate use of words
depending on context and present data clearly.
4. Introduce oneself to people and be able to speak extempore.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
PO-b PO-d
a c e f g h i j k l
English
CO-1 2 2 2
Language
Communication CO-2 2 2 2
Skills
Laboratory-1 CO-3 2 2 2
CO-4 2 2 2
Syllabus for Lab Sessions
Unit 1
Multimedia Lab
36
1. Phonetics
2. Listening Comprehension
3. Vocabulary Lesson 1
Oral Communication Skills Lab: Self Introduction ; E-mail
Unit 2
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar ---Nouns and Pronouns; The Present Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 2
3. Listening Skills
Oral Communication Skills Lab: Role Play/ Situational Dialogues
Unit 3 Multimedia Lab
1. Telephoning Skills
2. Grammar --- Articles; The Past Tense
3. Vocabulary Lesson 3
Oral Communication Skills Lab: JAM/ Short Talk
Unit 4
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar ---- Concord; The Future Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 4
3. Listening Comprehension
Oral Communication Skills Lab: Information Transfer
Unit 5 Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar --- Adjectives, adverbs, conjunctions
2. Vocabulary -- Lesson 5
Oral Communication Skills Lab : Presentation Skills
Multimedia Lab Requirements
The English Language Lab shall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Lab for 60 students with 60 systems, one master console,
LAN facility and English language software for self- study by learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Lab with movable chairs and audio-visual aids with a P.A
System,
a T. V., a digital stereo –audio & video system and camcorder etc.
System Requirement (Hardware component):
Computer network with Lan with minimum 60 multimedia systems with the following
specifications:
iv) P – IV Processor
a) Speed – 2.8 GHZ
37
b) RAM – 512 MB Minimum
c) Hard Disk – 80 GB
v) Headphones of High quality
5. Suggested Software:
The software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above should be procured and
used.
Suggested Software:
 Clarity Pronunciation Power – part II
 Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
 DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill Practice.
 Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
 TOEFL & GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO & BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE by CLIFFS)
Multimedia Lab Requirements
Minimum Requirement:
The English Language Lab shall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Lab for 60 students with 60 systems, one master console,
LAN facility and English language software for self- study by learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Lab with movable chairs and audio-visual aids with a P.A
System,
a T. V., a digital stereo –audio & video system and camcorder etc.
System Requirement (Hardware component):
Computer network with Lan with minimum 60 multimedia systems with the following
specifications:
iv) P – IV Processor
a) Speed – 2.8 GHZ
b) RAM – 512 MB Minimum
c) Hard Disk – 80 GB
v) Headphones of High quality
5. Suggested Software:
The software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above should be procured and
used.
Suggested Software:
Clarity Pronunciation Power – part II
Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill Practice.
Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
TOEFL & GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO & BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE by CLIFFS)
38
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE & IT – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11CSE1201) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING LABORATORY
Course objectives
1. Gain a working knowledge of C programming to write modular, efficient and
readable C programs by Identifying the structural elements and layout of C
source code.
2. Declare and manipulate single and multi-dimensional arrays of the C data
types and derived data types like structures, unions.
3. Use functions from the portable C library and to describe the techniques for
creating program modules using functions and recursive functions.
4. Manipulate character strings in C programs. Utilize pointers to efficiently solve
problems, Allocate memory to variables dynamically and Perform operations
on text and binary files.
Course Outcomes:
1. Able to write, compile and debug programs in C language using both Linux
and windows environment .
2. Implement appropriate decision making statements and derived data types to
solve a given problem.
3. Implement different concept s of files to solve real world examples.
4. Implement different c concepts in problem solving.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
PO-b PO-d
a c e f g h i j k l
CO-1 2 2 1 1 1
Computer
Programming CO-2 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 1
Laboratory
CO-3 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1
CO-4 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1
Week 1
1. WAP that reads three different integers from the keyboard and prints – sum,
average, product, smallest, largest of the numbers.
2. WAP that reads two integers and prints – difference, quotient and remainder
39
3. WAP that reads two integers and determines whether the first is a multiple of the
other
Week 2
1. Write a C program to find the sum of individual digits of a positive integer.
2. Write a program to generate Fibonacci sequence (1, 1 ,2, 3, 5, 8,….)
3. Write a C program to generate all the prime numbers between 1 and n, where n is a
value supplied by the user.
Week 3
1. Write a C program to calculate the following Sum:
Sum=1-x2/2! +x4/4!-x6/6!+x8/8!-x10/10!
2. Write a C program to find the roots of a quadratic equation.
Week 4
1. Write a C program, which takes two integer operands and one operator from the
user, performs the operation and then prints the result. (Consider the operators +,-,*,
/, % and use Switch Statement)
2. Write a C program to generate Pascal’s triangle.
3. Write a C program to construct a pyramids of numbers
Week 5
1 WAP to print a given number [0-1000] in words. For example, 123 as One Hundred and
Twenty Three
2 WAP to check whether a given number is an Armstrong, Palindrome, Perfect, Prime, or a
Fibonacci prime Number
3 Write a C program to find both the largest and smallest number in a list of integers
Week 6
1. Implementation of functions categories.
2. Write C programs that use both recursive and non-recursive functions
i) To find the factorial of a given integer.
ii) To find the GCD (greatest common divisor) of two given integers.
Week 7
1. Write a C program to calculate
i) Minimum and maximum of an 1-d array
ii) Sorting and Searching of 1-D array
iii) Addition and Multiplication of Two Matrices
Week 8
1. Programs on String handling functions-Copying, reverse, substring,
concatenation.
2. Programs on structure and unions.
40
Week 9
Midterm exam
Week 10
Programs using pointers- pointer basic operations, pointers and functions
Week 11
Programs on pointers and structures, Pointers and arrays, pointers and strings.
Week 12
Write a program using file operations and error handling.
Week 13
Write a program using Dynamic memory allocation
Week 14
Write a program using command line arguments.
Week 15
Write a program using preprocessor directives
Week 16
Internal Lab Exam
41
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE & IT – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11MED1202) WORKSHOP PRACTICE (10 + 6 Weeks)
TRADES FOR EXCERCISES
Course Objectives:
1. To understand the basic concepts of hardware and peripherals of a
computer and block diagram and assembling/dissembling of a pc
2. To know the functionalities and uses of an operating system and
conducting experiments to install operating systems like windows and
Linux
3. To run some basic Linux commands and know how to troubleshoot a
pc in case of few problems
Course Outcomes:
1. Identify various peripherals of a PC, Know their functionalities and able to
assemble and dissemble a PC
2. Understand the basic functionalities of an operating System and be able to
install an OS
3. Analyze few problems and be able to trouble shoot them, and execute few
Linux commands
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
PO-b PO-d
TRADES FOR a c e f g h i j k l
EXCERCISES CO-1 1 1 2 1 2 2 2 2
CO-2 1 2 2 2 1 2 2
CO-3 1 1 1 2 2 1 2
At least two exercises from each trade:
1. Carpentry
42
2. Tin-Smithy
3. Fitting
4. Welding
5. Electrical Wiring
1. Computer Hardware: Identification of Parts, Assembling and disassembling
Simple diagnostic exercises -
2. Installation of Operating System : Windows , Linux – Basic Command Simple diagnostic
exercises .
TEXTBOOKS
1. Work shp Manual - P.Kannaiah/ K.L.Narayana, Scitech Publishers.
2. Workshop Manual by Venkat Reddy.
3. Engineering Workshop Practice – V Ramesh Babu, VRB Publishers Pvt. Ltd.
4. IT Essentials PC Hardware and Software Companion Guide Third Edition by Davis
Anfinson and Ken Quamme – CISCO Press, Pearson Education.
5. PC Hardware and A+ Handbook – Kate J. Chase PHI (Microsoft)
43
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE & IT – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MTH1102) MATHEMATICS – II
(Linear Algebra and Ordinary Differential Equations)
Course Objectives:
1. Understand the Echelon form and Normal form of a matrix and its
applications in solving linear system of equations.
2. Understand the methods of solving first order differential equations and learn
about its applications to L-R and R-C circuits.
3. Apply the convolution theorem to evaluate Laplace Transform of the
functions.
4. Apply Z-Transforms in solving the difference equations.
Course Outcomes:
1. Find the rank using Echelon form and Normal form.
2. Solve the problems in first order and second order differential equations.
3. Learn Laplace Transform as a tool.
4. Evaluate the Z-Transform of the given function.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
PO-b PO-d
a c e f g h i j k l
Mathematics CO-1 2
– II
CO-2 2 2
CO-3 2 2 1
CO-4 2 2 1
UNIT I
Solution of linear systems
Matrices and linear systems of equations - elementary row transformations, Rank Echelon
form, and normal form; Solution of linear systems - direct methods - LU decomposition, LU
decomposition from Gauss elimination, and solution of Tri-diagonal systems; Eigen values,
44
eigen vectors, and their properties - Liner dependence and independence; Cayley-Hamilton
theorem - inverse and powers of a matrix by Cayley-Hamilton theorem, diagonalization of a
matrix, calculation of powers of a matrix; Modal and spectral matrices.
UNIT II
Linear transformations
Real matrices - symmetric, skew symmetric, and orthogonal linear transformation; Complex
matrices - Hermitian, Skew-Hermitian and unitary matrices; Eigen values and eigen vectors
of complex matrices and their properties; Quadratic forms - reduction of quadratic form to
canonical form, rank, positive, negative definite, semi definite, index, signature, Sylvester law,
and singular value decomposition.
ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
UNIT III
Ordinary differential equations and their applications
Differential equations of first order and first degree - Linear, Bernoulli and exact differential
equation; Applications of differential equations of first order and first degree - Newton’s law of
cooling, Law of natural growth and decay, Orthogonal trajectories, and basic circuits.
UNIT IV
Differential equations of higher order and their applications
Differential equations of higher order - homogeneous and non-homogenous type, differential
equations of second order and higher order with constant coefficients with right hand side term
ax ax
of the type e , sin (ax), cos (ax), polynomials in x, e V(x), x V(x), and method of
variation of parameters; Applications to bending of beams; Mechanical systems - Simple
harmonic motion.
UNIT V
Linear differential equations and qualitative methods
Cauchy’s linear differential equation; Legendre’s differential equations; Simultaneous linear
differential equations; The phase plane; Phase portraits and direction fields; Critical points and
stability.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics - R.K Jain and S.R.K Iyengar, 3rd edition, Narosa
Publications, 2011.
2. Differential Equations - Dennis G. Zill, Cengage learning, 2011.
REFERENCES
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics - Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition, John Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics - Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition, Cengage Learning.
45
3. Elementary Differential Equations and Boundary Value Problems - William E. Boyce and
Richard C. Diprima ,Wiley.
4. Linear Algebra and its applications - David C Clay, Pearson Education.
5. Differential Equations, with Applications and Historical Notes - George F. Simmons and
John S. Robertson, 2nd Edition, Tata McGraw Hill, 2008.
6. Advanced Engineering Mathematics - Dennis G. Zill, Warren S. Wright, and Michael R.
Cullen, 4th edition, Jones & Bartlett Learning.
46
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE & IT – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MTH1104) NUMERICAL ANALYSIS AND LINEAR PROGRAMMING
Course objectives:
1. Understand the numerical methods for non linear systems, evaluating definite
integrals and ordinary differential equations.
2. Understand various methods of interpolation.
3. Understand the simplex method and methods to solve the transportation
problem.
Course Outcomes:
1. Apply the numerical methods to find a root of algebraic and transcendental
equations.
2. Apply the numerical methods to find the solutions of ordinary differential
equations.
3. Use simplex method procedure to optimize a linear function.
4. Solve transportation problems
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
PO-b PO-d
Numerical a c e f g h i j k l
Analysis and CO-1 2 1
Linear
CO-2 2 2 1 1 1
Programming
CO-3 2 2 1 1 1
CO-4 2 2 1 1 1
UNIT I
Solutions of non-linear systems
Introduction; Mathematical preliminaries; Solution of algebraic and transcendental equations –
the bisection method, the method of false position, the iteration method, Newton - Raphson
method, and order of convergence.
UNIT II
Interpolation
47
Introduction; Errors in polynomial interpolation; Finite differences; Forward differences;
Backward differences; Central differences; Symbolic relations and separation of symbols;
Differences of a polynomial; Newton’s formulae for interpolation; Central difference
interpolation formulae; Gauss’s central difference formulae; Lagrange and Hermite interpolation
formulae; Cubic spline interpolation.
UNIT III
Numerical differentiation and Integration
Introduction; Differentiation of equally and unequally spaced data, and finite difference
approximations; Trapezoidal rule, Simpson’s 1/3 rule, and Simpson’s 3/8 rule.
Numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations
Solution of initial value problems by Taylor’s series - Picard’s method of successive
approximations, Euler’s method, and Runge - Kutta methods; Predictor Corrector methods –
Adams-Bashforth-Moulton method.
UNIT IV
Numerical solutions of partial differential equations (PDE)
Introduction; Classification of second order PDE; finite difference approximations to derivatives;
Solution of Laplace and Poisson equation - Jacobi’s method, Gauss-Seidal method by
Leibmann’s, Solution of parabolic equations (heat equation) by explicit and Crank Nicolson
implicit scheme method; Solution of hyperbolic equations (wave equation).
UNIT V
Linear programming
Basic concepts; formulation of linear programming problem; constrained optimization-linear
programming - simplex method, dual simplex method, and transportation problems.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Numerical Analysis - S.S.Sastry, PHI , 2010.
2. Operations Research - Prem Kumar Gupta and D.S.Hira, S.Chand, 2003.
REFERENCES
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics - Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition, John Wiley and Sons.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics - Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition, Cengage Learning.
3. Elementary Numerical Analysis – an algorithmic approach - Samuel D. Conte and Carl De
Boor ,3rd edition,Tata McGraw Hill, 2006.
4. Numerical Analysis - R.L Burden and J.D Faires, , 7th ediation, Thomson, 2007.
48
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE & IT – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11PHY1102) ENGINEERING PHYSICS-II
Course Objectives:
1. To learn the basic operators and expectation values in quantum mechanics
2. To learn different semiconductors and to calculate their carrier concentration
and semiconductor devices
3. To learn the properties of magnetic materials and classification, Dielectric
materials and to learn the concept and applications of superconductors
Course Outcomes:
1. Understand the Phenomenon of Interference, Diffraction& Polarization.
2. Learn the principle, working, construction and energy mechanism of various
lasers and their applications Explain the light signal propagation and
attenuation through optical fiber.
3. Understand the differences between particle and wave nature, energy states
in one dimensional potential box and also the Consequences of Heisenberg’s
Uncertainty principle.
4. Understand the one dimensional Schrodinger’s wave equation and the effect
of temperature on Fermi-Dirac Distribution, Kronig Penny model.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
PO-b PO-d
a c e f g h i j k l
CO-1 2 1
Engineering
CO-2 2 1
Physics-II
CO-3 2 1
CO-4 2
UNIT- I
49
ELEMENTS OF STATISTICAL MECHANICS: Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-
Dirac statistics (non mathematical treatment) – Photon gas –Planck’s law of black body
radiation – Deduction of Wein’s law and Rayleigh-Jeans law from Plank’s law.
PRINCIPLES OF QUANTUM MECHANICS: Waves and particles – De Broglie hypothesis -
Matter waves - Davisson and Germer experiment –Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle -
Schrodinger Wave Equation – Wave function and its Physical Significance - Particle in one
dimensional potential box(wave functions, probability densities and energy states).
UNIT - II
FREE ELECTRON FERMI GAS: Energy levels in one dimension, Effect of temperature on the
Fermi-Dirac distribution, Free electron gas in three dimensions, electrical conductivity & Ohm’s
law, Electrical Resistivity of Metals (Qulitaitve), thermal conductivity of metals.
BAND THEORY OF SOLIDS: Electron in a periodic potential – Bloch Theorem - Kronig-
Penney model (non mathematical treatment) – Origin of energy band formation in solids –
Classification of materials into conductors, semiconductors & Insulators - Concept of effective
mass of an electron.
UNIT- III
SEMICONDUCTOR PHYSICS: Fermi level in Intrinsic and Extrinsic semiconductors - Intrinsic
semiconductor and carrier concentration – Extrinsic semiconductor and carrier concentration –
Equation of continuity – Direct and indirect band gap semiconductors - Hall effect.
PHYSICS OF SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES: Formation of p-n junction – open circuit p-n
junction – Energy diagram of diode – i/v characteristics of p-n junction diode – p-n diode as a
rectifier – Diode equation – LED
UNIT- IV
MAGNETIC PROPERTIES: Permeability, Field intensity, magnetic field induction,
Magnetization and Magnetic susceptibility – Origin of magnetic moment, Bohr magneton –
Classification of magnetic materials (Dia, Para and Ferro)- Domain theory of ferromagnetism,
Hysteresis curve – Soft and Hard magnetic materials – properties of Anti ferro and Ferri
magnetic materials – Ferrites and their applications.
UNIT V
SUPERCONDUCTORS:Experimental survey and superconductivity phenomenon, – Meissner
effect – Critical fields and Persistent currents, Type I and Type II superconductors - London
equations- flux quantization, BCS theory, Josephson effect – High temperature
Superconductors, Applications of Superconductors.
DIELECTRIC PROPERTIES:Electric dipole, Dipole moment, Dielectric constant, Electronic,
Ionic and Orientation Polarization – Calculation of Polarizibilities – Internal fields – Claussius –
Mossotti equation –Piezo and Ferro electricity
TEXT BOOKS
50
(1) Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel (Publishers: John Wiley & Sons)
for units 2 to 5
(2) Concepts of Modern physics by Arthur Beiser, McGraw Hill Inc.
(3) Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd
REFERENCES
1. Solid State Physics by S.O.Pillai, New Age Publishers
2. Solid State Physics by A.J.Dekker; Macmillan Publishers India Ltd.
3. Engineering Physics by Dr M Chandra Shekar and Dr P. Appala Naidu, VGS Book
links.
4. Solid State Physics by N.W.Ashcroft & N.David Merwin. Thomson Learning
5. Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
6. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
7. Engineering Physics by M.R.Srinivasan, New Age Publishers
51
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE & IT – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11CED1109) ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
Course Objectives:
1. Develop an understanding of the necessity of protection of environment
2. Develop an understanding of Natural resources
3. Develop an understanding of Biodiversity
4. Develop an understanding of Global Environmental problems
5. Develop an understanding of Environmental pollution
Course Outcomes:
1. Acquire the knowledge on environment
2. Acquire the knowledge of various Natural Resources
3. Develop skills in understanding of various environmental problems
4. Develop skills to protect the Environment
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
PO-d
a b c e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 1 1 2 1
1
Environmental CO-
2 1 1 2 1
Studies 2
CO-
2 1 1 2 1
3
CO-
2 1 1 2 1
4
UNIT-I
Introduction, Definition, scope and Importance
52
Ecosystems: Introduction, types, Classification of Eco system, structure and functions of
ecosystems.
Bio-diversity and its conservation, Value of bio-diversity Bio-geographical classification of India
– India as a mega diversity habitat, Threats to bio-diversity –Hot-spots of Bio Diversity,
Conservation of bio-diversity.
UNIT-II
Natural Resources: Classification of Resources, Land resources, Land degradation, Soil
erosion and desertification, Food resources, Effects of modern agriculture, fertilizer pesticide
problems, Food miles, organic farming, Forest resources, Use and over-exploitation, Water
resources, Dams –benefits, Conflicts over Water, Energy resources-sustainable Development,
and Energy Audit
UNIT III
Environmental pollution and its control : Classification of pollution and pollutants, Air
pollution, causes ,Effects ,Control measures, ambient air quality standards, water pollution
causes , Effects ,Control measures, water and waste water treatment methods, water quality
standards, Noise pollution causes ,Effects ,Control measures, land pollution causes ,Effects
,Control measures, solid waste disposal methods ,characteristics of e-waste and management
UNIT IV
Global Environmental problems and global Efforts: Nuclear hazards, Global warming, Acid
rain, hurricanes, Hazardous Waste, Overpopulation , ozone layer depletion, Clean
development mechanism , Green computing ,Green Building ,carbon credits, carbon trading
International conventions/protocols: Earth summit, Kyoto protocol and Montreal protocol,
Stockholm Declaration
UNIT V
Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management plan: Definition of impact,
Classification of Impacts, Prediction of Impacts and Impact assessment Methodologies,
Environmental Impact Statement, Environmental Management plan: Technological Solutions
TEXT BOOKS
53
1. Introduction to Environmental Science by Y.Anjaneyulu, BS Publications
2. Text book of Environmental studies by Deeksha dave, Cengage publishers
3. Text book of Environmental studies by M.Anji Reddy, BS Publications
REFERENCES
1. Text book of Environmental studies by Anuba Kaushik & C P Kaushik, Newage International
Pvt.Limited
2. Text book of Environmental studies by S V S Rana, Rastogi Publications
3. Text book of Environmental studies by Dr. K Raghavan Nambiar, Scitech Publishers
54
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE & IT – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11CSE1102) DATA STRUCTURES
Course Objectives:
1. To teach efficient storage mechanisms of data for an easy access.
2. To design and implementation of various basic and advanced data structures.
3. To introduce various techniques for representation of the data in the real world.
4. To develop application using data structures and to improve the logical ability
Course Outcomes:
1. Explore and analyze the working of linear data structures like list, stack and
variations of queue in both static and dynamic implementation.
2. Relate and demonstrate the application of linear data structures.
3. Illustrate and Implement basic non linear data structures like trees, graphs
and their operations.
4. Identify and Implement basic and advanced comparison based sorting and
searching techniques.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
PO-d
a b c e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 2 1 1 1
1
Data CO-
2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1
Structures 2
CO-
2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1
3
CO-
2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1
4
UNIT-1
Data Structures – Introduction to Data Structures, abstract data types, Linear list – singly linked
list implementation, insertion, deletion and searching operations on linear list, circular linked list
implementation, Double linked list implementation, insertion, deletion and searching operations.
Applications of linked lists.
55
UNIT – 2
Stacks-Operations, array and linked representations of stacks, stack application-infix to postfix
conversion, postfix expression evaluation, recursion implementation.
UNIT-3
Queues-operations, array and linked representations. Circular Queue operations, Dequeues,
applications of queue.
UNIT-4
Trees – Definitions, Binary tree representation, Binary search tree, binary tree traversals.
Graphs – Definitions, Graph representations, Graph traversals.
UNIT-5
Searching and Sorting – Big O Notation , Sorting- selection sort, bubble sort, insertion sort,
quick sort, merge sort,
Searching-linear and binary search methods.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. C Programming & Data Structures, B.A.Forouzan and R.F. Gilberg, Third Edition,
Cengage Learning.
2. Data Structures Using C (Paperback) by Aaron M. Tenenbaum
REFERENCES:
1. C& Data structures – P. Padmanabham, Third Edition, B.S. Publications.
2. Data Structures using C – A.M.Tanenbaum, Y.Langsam, and M.J. Augenstein, Pearson
Education / PHI
3. C Programming & Data Structures, E. Balagurusamy, TMH.
4. C Programming & Data Structures, P. Dey, M Ghosh R Thereja, Oxford University Press
5. C& Data structures – E V Prasad and N B Venkateswarlu, S. Chand&Co.
56
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE & IT – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 3 4
(R11MED1105) ENGINEERING DRAWING
Course Objectives:
1. Understand the usage of drawing instruments.
2. Understand the construction methods for drawing conic sections.
3. Identify the significance of curves in engineering practice like bridges,
building, arches etc.
4. Understand first and third angle projections and methods.
Course Outcomes:
1. Visualize the objects looking into projections.
2. Convert projections for isometric to orthographic and vice versa.
3. Work with Auto CAD for the above
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
PO-d
a b c e f g h i j k l
CO-
1 1 1 1 2 1
Engineering 1
Drawing CO-
1 1 1 1 2 1
2
CO-
1 1 1 1 2 1
3
UNIT – I
Introduction to engineering graphics – construction of ellipse, parabola and hyperbola –
cycloidal curves.
UNIT – II
Orthographic projections of points, lines and planes – axis inclined to one planes and inclined
to both the planes.
57
UNIT – III
Orthographic projections of solids:
Cylinder, cone, prism, pyramid and sphere positions and axis inclined to both the planes.
UNIT – IV
Isomeric projections of lines, planes and simple solids.
UNIT – V
Conversion of orthographic views into isometric views and vice-versa.
TEXT BOOKS :
1. Engineering drawings By N.D.Bhatt.
2 Engineering graphics By K.L. Narayana & P.Kannayya.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering drawing and graphics: Venugopal/ New age
2. Engineering drawing : Johle / TMH
58
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE & IT – II sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11EPC1201) ENGINEERING PHYSICS & ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. To practically learn interaction of light with matter through physical
phenomena like interference, diffraction and dispersion.
2. To expose to the principle of superposition and resonance.
3. To demonstrate the formation of standing waves and to understand the
mechanical wave behavior and to determine Rigidity Modulus of different
materials of wires .
4. To demonstrate basic discharge phenomenon in capacitors and to know the
characteristics of the circuit elements, like resistors, capacitors and inductors
Course Outcomes:
1. Understand clearly the interference principle in wave theory of light and able
to relate it to the formation of Newton Rings and Obtain a pure spectrum
when light passes through prism
2. Understand the formation and propagation of mechanical waves
3. Study simple oscillations of a load attached to a string and relate it to nature
of material of string
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
PO-d
ENGINEERING a b c e f g h i j k l
PHYSICS & CO- 2
1
ENGINEERING
CO-
CHEMISTRY 2
2
LABORATORY CO-
2
3
Any Eight Experiments from the following:
1. Dispersive Power of the material of a Prism using Spectrometer
59
2. Diffraction Grating (both with Laser and non-laser source)
3. Single Slit with laser light
4. Newton’s Rings
5. Finding thickness of a thin wire or sheet by forming a wedgeshaped film
6. Energy gap of a semiconductor material
7. Torsional Pendulum Expt. to determine the rigidity modulus of material of a wire
8. Melde’s experiment
9. Sonometer Experiment
10. Numerical Aperture and Acceptance angle of an optical fiber cable
11. Stewart Gee’s experiment
12. Characteristics of LED.
13. Photo cell/ Solar Cell
Book: Essential Practical Lab Manual of Physics: by P.Raghavendra Rao
ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
1. Titrimetry
a) Estimation of hardness of water by EDTA method.
2. Instrumental methods
(i) Conductometry
a) Conductometric titration of strong acid Vs Strong base
(ii) Colorimetry
a) Estimation of copper by colorimetric method
(iii) Potentiometry
a) Titration of strong acid Vs Strong base by potentiometry
3. Physical properties
a) Determination of viscosity of sample oil by Redwood viscometer.
4. Preparation of organic compounds
Preparation of aspirin or Thiokol rubber
TEXT BOOKS
1. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by S.K.Bhasin and Sudha
Rani,Dhanpat Rai Publishing Company.
2. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna
Cherukuri, VGS Book Links, Vijayawada.
60
61
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE & IT – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11CSE1202) DATA STRUCTURES LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. To develop skills to design and analyze simple linear data structures
2. To develop skills to design and analyze simple nonlinear data structures
3. To strengthen the ability to identify and apply the suitable data structure for
the given real world problem
4. To gain knowledge in practical applications of data structures
Course Outcomes:
1. Implement linear data structures stacks, queues and linked lists.
2. Design non linear data structures trees and Graphs, and implement their
operations.
3. Choose and Apply appropriate data structure for a given application.
4. Implement different searching and sorting techniques. Compare different
searching and sorting techniques.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
PO-d
a b c e f g h i j k l
Data CO- 2 2 1 1 1
1
Structures
CO-
Laboratory
2
2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1
CO-
2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1
3
CO-
2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1
4
WEEK1:
1. Write a program for creation, Search and Traversal of Single Linked List
2. Write a program to perform insertion and deletion operations in Single Linked List
3. Write a program to merge two single linked lists
62
WEEK2:
1. Write a program for creation, Search and Traversal of Circular Linked List
2. Write a program to perform insertion and deletion operations in Circular Linked List
WEEK 3:
1. Write a program for creation, Search and Traversal of Double Linked List
2. Write a program to perform insertion and deletion operations in Double Linked List
WEEK 4:
1. Write a program to implement stack using Arrays
2. Write a program to implement stack using Linked List
WEEK 5:
1. Write a program to convert infix expression to postfix expression using stack
2. Write a program to evaluate postfix expression
WEEK 6:
1. Programs using recursion
2. Write a program to convert infix expression to prefix expression using stack
WEEK 7:
1. Write a program to implement Linear queue using Array
2. Write a program to implement Linear queue using Linked List
WEEK 8:
1. Write a program to implement insertions and deletions in a circular Queue
2. Write a program to perform search and count operations in a circular queue
WEEK 9:
1. Write a program to implement insertions and deletions in a Dequeue
2. Write a program to perform search and count operations in Dequeue
WEEK 10: Midterm Exam
WEEK 11:
1. Write a program to implement Linear search
2. Write a program to implement Binary Search
63
WEEK 12:
1. Write a program to implement Selection sort
2. Write a program to implement Bubble sort
3. Write a program to implement Insertion sort
WEEK 13:
1. Write a program to implement Merge sort
2. Write a program to implement Quick sort
WEEK 14:
1. Implementation of a binary tree representation using Arrays
2. Write a program to search an element, to print right and left children of every node
in a tree
WEEK 15:
1. Implementation of a Graph representation using Adjacency Matrix
2. Write a program to print all adjacent nodes of every node in a graph
WEEK 16: Final Internal Lab Exam
64
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE & IT – II Sem L T /P/D C
0 3 2
(R11HAS1202) ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY-II
Course objectives:
1. Enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content to write
business letters, resume, SOP, Proposals and Technical Reports for
academics as well as for workplace
2. Enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific
target audience
3. Groom students to speak accurately and fluently and prepare them for real
world activities through behavioral skills.
4. Train students in soft skills through role play and group discussion to improve
their EQ.
Course Outcomes:
1. Comprehend spoken and written discourse.
2. Speak fluently with neutral pronunciation and exhibit interpersonal
skills.
3. Write accurately, coherently and lucidly making appropriate use of
words depending on context and present data clearly.
4. Introduce oneself to people and be able to speak extempore.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
English a b c d e f g h i j k l
Language CO-
2 2 2
1
Communications
CO-
Skills 2 2 2
2
Laboratory-II CO-
2 2 2
3
CO-
2 2 2
4
65
In continuation with the first Year I semester syllabus, this course offers further practice in
Listening, Speaking, and Grammar in preparation for the advanced speaking and writing skills
offered in the III Year .
Unit I
Multimedia Lab :
1. Listening Comprehension
2. Grammar -- Voice
3. Vocabulary Lesson 6
Oral Communication Skills Lab : Self Introduction
Unit 2
Multimedia Lab :
1. Grammar - Conditionals & Prepositions
2. Listening Comprehension
3. Vocabulary Lesson 7
Oral Communication Skills Lab :
1. Description of Objects
2. Description of Processes
Unit 3
Multimedia Lab :
1. Grammar -- Use of Subordinate Clauses; Phrasal Verbs; Idioms
2. Vocabulary Lesson Oral Communication Skills Lab : Presentation Skills
Unit 4
Multimedia Lab :
1. Grammar -- Use of Substitution, Reference and Ellipsis
2. Listening Comprehension
3. Vocabulary Lesson 9
Oral Communication Skills Lab : Debate
Unit 5
Multimedia Lab :
66
1. Grammar --- Parallelism, Repetition, Nominalization
2. Vocabulary Lesson 10
Oral Communication Skills Lab : Group Discussions
67
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MTH1106) PROBABILITY AND STATISTICS
Course Objectives:
1. Understand the elementary ideas in basic probability.
2. Understand the different types of probability distribution functions
3. Understand the basic concepts in estimation theory and test of hypothesis
4. Understand the basic concepts of queuing theory.
Course Outcomes:
1. Solve problems involving basic probability.
2. Apply the knowledge of different probability distributions to Test of
Hypothesis.
3. Calculate correlation, regression coefficients.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
Probability and 1 2 2
Statistics CO-
2 2
2
CO-
2
3
UNIT I
Probability and Distributions
Sample space and events, Probability- The axioms of probability, some elementary theorems,
conditional probability, Baye’s theorem. Random variables - discrete and continuous.
Distributions - Binomial, Poisson and Normal distributions–related properties.
UNIT II
Sampling Distributions and Testing of Hypothesis
Sampling distributions, sampling distribution of means (σ known and unknown). Point
estimation, interval estimation.Tests of hypothesis - null hypothesis, alternate hypothesis, type
I, type II errors, critical region. Inferences concerning means and proportions- Large samples-
test of hypothesis for single mean and difference between the means. Test of hypothesis for
the proportions- single and difference between the proportions, confidence interval for the
mean and proportions.
68
UNIT III
Tests of significance- Small samples
Tests of significance-t distributions, confidence interval for the t- distribution, F-distributions and
Chi square distributions.
UNIT IV
Correlation and Regression
Coefficient of correlation, regression coefficient, the lines of regression, rank correlation,
correlation for bivariate frequency distributions.
UNIT V
Reliability theory and Time Series analysis
Basic concepts of reliability, Normal failure law, Exponential failure law, The Weibull failure law
and reliability of systems. Time series- utility of time series analysis, components of time series.
Preliminary adjustments before analyzing time series. Measurement of trend by the method of
least squares.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Probability and Statistics for Engineers - Miller I.R. and Freund J.E, 5th Edition, Prentice-
Hall, 1995.
2. Introductory Probability and Statistical Application – Meyer, 2nd edition, Oxford 1970.
3. Statistical Methods - S.P. Gupta, Sultan Chand and sons, 2011.
REFERENCES
1. Reliability Engineering- Balagurusamy E,Tata McGraw Hill , 1984.
2. Elements of Applied Stochastic processes- Bhat U.N, Wiley Series in
Probability and Mathematical Statistics, 1983.
69
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11CSE1103) COMPUTER ORGANIZATION
Course Objectives:
1. Differentiate the basic hardware and software issues of computer
organization.
2. Know the internal working of a computer system.
3. Compare the Memory Unit Organizations related to computers.
4. Understand how parallel processing is achieved using pipeline technique.
Course Outcomes:
1. Develop the ability and confidence to use the fundamentals of computer
organization as a tool in the engineering of digital systems.
2. Apply knowledge of the PC based processor’s internal registers and
operations.
3. Analyze the different types of memory units and understand their
organization in a computer system.
4. Identify the need for pipelining along with its organization support for
efficient I/O operations.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 1 2
1
Computer CO-
2 2 2 1 2 1 1 1 1 2 2 2
Organization 2
CO-
2 2 2 2 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
3
CO-
2 2 1 1 2 2 2 2 1 2 2 2
3
70
UNIT I
BASIC STRUCTURE OF COMPUTERS: Computer types, functional unit, basic operational
concepts, bus structures, multi processors and multi computers, multi tasking.
Register Transfer Language and Micro operations: Register Transfer language, Regiser
Transfer, Arithmetic Microoperations, Logic Microoperations, Shift Microoperations, Arithmetic
logic shift unit.
UNIT II
BASIC COMPUTER ORGANIZATION AND DESIGN: Instruction Codes, Computer Registers,
computer instructions – instruction Cycle, memory reference instructions, input-output and
interrupt.
Central Processing Unit: Stack organization, instruction formats, addressing modes, data
transfer and manipulation, program control, CISC and RISC.
UNIT III
Microprogrammed Control: Control memory, address sequencing, micro program example,
design of control unit, hardwired control, microprogrammed control.
The Memory Organization: Memory hierarchy, Main Memory, Cache memory, performance
considerations, virtual memory, secondary storage.
UNIT IV
Computer Arithmetic: Addition and subtraction, multiplication algorithms, Division algorithms,
floating-point arithmetic operations, Decimal arithmetic unit, Decimal arithmetic operations.
INPUT-OUTPUT ORGANIZATION: Peripheral devices, input-output interface, asynchronous
data transfer, modes of transfer, priority interrupt, direct memory access.
UNIT V
Pipeline and Vector Processing: Parallel Processing, Pipelining, Arithmetic Pipeline,
Instruction pipeline, RISC pipeline Vector Processing, Array Processors.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Computer System Architecture – M. Morris Mano, III edition, Pearson/PHI
2. Computer organization – Carl Hamacher, Zvonks Vranesic, Safeazaky, V edition, Mc Graw
Hill
REFERENCES
1. Computer Organization and Architecture – William Stallings Sixth edition Pearson/PHI
2. Fundamentals of Computer Organization and Design, Sivarama Dandamudi Springer Intl.
edition
3. Computer Architecture, a Quantitative approach, John L. Hennessy and David A. Patterson,
Fourth edition Elsevier.
71
4. Computer Architecture Fundamentals and Principles of Computer Design, Joseph D/
Dumas II, BS Publication
72
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11ITD1118) ADVANCED DATA STRUCTURES
Course Objectives
1. To implement various object oriented concepts like abstraction, encapsulation,
polymorphism, inheritance etc.
2. To demonstrate exception handling mechanism.
3. To implement algorithms into programming code.
4. To implement dictionaries, various data structures like stacks, queues, trees,
graphs using templates.
Course Outcomes:
1. Understand different object oriented concepts in C++.
2. Design different mathematical problems using oops
3. Understand and analyze the performance of various data structures
such that optimizing searching.
4. Apply the various data structures and oops concepts in solving the real
time problems.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 1 1 2 1
1
Advanced Data CO-
2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1
Structures 2
CO-
1 2 2 1 1 2 1 1 1 1
3
CO-
2 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
4
UNIT I
C++ Class Overview- Class Definition, Objects, Class Members, Access Control, Class Scope,
Constructors and destructors, parameter passing methods, Inline functions, static class
members, this pointer, friend functions, dynamic memory allocation and de-allocation (new and
delete), exception handling.
UNIT II
73
Function over Loading, Operator Overloading, Generic Programming- Function and class
templates, Inheritance basics, base and derived classes, inheritance types, base class access
control, runtime polymorphism using virtual functions, abstract classes, I/O streams.
UNIT III
Review of basic data structures- The list ADT, Stack ADT, Queue ADT, Implementation using
template classes in C++. Priority Queues – Definition, ADT, Realizing a Priority Queue using
Heaps, Definition, insertion, Deletion, Heap sort, External Sorting- Model for external sorting,
Multiway merge, Polyphase merge.
UNIT IV
Dictionaries, linear list representation, Skip list representation, operations insertion, deletion
and searching, hash table representation, hash functions, collision resolution-separate
chaining, open addressing-linear probing, quadratic probing, double hashing, rehashing,
extendible hashing, comparison of hashing and skip lists. Text Processing – Pattern matching
algorithms-Brute Force, Knuth-Morris-Pratt algorithm, Tries – Standard tries, Compressed tries,
Suffix tries.
UNIT V
Trees-Basic Terminology, Binary tree ADT, array and linked representations, traversals,
threaded binary trees, Binary Search Trees: Definition, ADT, Implementation, Operations of
Searching, Insertion and Deletion. AVL Trees, Definition, Operations-Insertion and Searching.
B-Trees, Definition, B-Tree of order m, insertion, deletion and searching. Graphs: Basic
terminology, representations of Graphs, Graph search methods – DFS, BFS.
TEXT BOOKS:-
1. Data structures, Algorithms and Applications in C++, S.Sahni, University Press
(India) Pvt.Ltd, 2nd edition, Universities Press Orient Longman Pvt. Ltd.
2. Data structures and Algorithms in C++, Michael T.Goodrich, R.Tamassia and
.Mount, Wiley student edition, John Wiley and Sons.
REFERENCES:-
1. Data structures and Algorithm Analysis in C++, Mark Allen Weiss, Pearson
Education. Ltd., Second Edition.
2. Data structures using C& C++ , Langsam, Augenstein and tanenbaum, PHI
3. Problem solving with C++, The OOP, Fourth edition, W.Savitch, Pearson Education.
4. Data Structures and Algorithms Using C++, Ananda Rao Akepogu,Radhika Raju
Palagiri.
74
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech, CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11MTH1107) MATHEMATICAL FOUNDATION FOR COMPUTER SCIENCE
Course objectives:
1. Identify and distinguish between the notion of discrete and continuous
mathematical structures
2. Introduces the basic concepts of relations, groups and functions
3. Provide the basics of counting techniques and combinatory in the context
of discrete probability.
4. To Master in Recurrence Relations to calculate complexity of algorithms
5. To develop students’ competency in getting results for graphs and trees
related problems.
Course Outcomes:
1. Apply discrete mathematical structures and their reasoning in problem
solving and analysis
2. Analyze the basic properties and operations related to sets, relations and
functions
3. Able to compute probability of simple and conditional events
4. Use and analyze recursive definitions of standard algorithms.
5. Illustrate the basic definitions of graph theory and properties of graphs
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
Mathematical 2 2 2 2 2 2 1 1
1
Foundation for CO-
2 2 1 2 1 2 1 1
Computer 2
Science CO- 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1
3
CO-
2 1 2 2 1 1 1 1
4
CO-
2 1 2 2 2 2 1 1
5
UNIT I
75
Mathematical Logic: Statements and notations, Connectives, Well formed formulas, Truth
Tables, tautology, equivalence implication, Normal forms, Quantifiers, universal quantifiers.
Predicates: Predicative logic, Free & Bound variables, Rules of inference, Consistency, proof of
contradiction, Automatic Theorem Proving.
UNIT II
Relations: Properties of binary Relations, equivalence, transitive closure, compatibility and
partial ordering relations, Hasse diagram. Functions: Inverse Function, Composition of
functions, recursive Functions. Algebraic structures: Algebraic systems, Examples and general
properties, Semi groups and monoids, groups, and sub groups, Homomorphism, Isomorphism
on groups and semi groups.
UNIT III
Elementary Combinatorics: Basics of counting, Combinations & Permutations, with
repetitions, Constrained repetitions, Binomial Coefficients, Binomial and Multinomial theorems,
the principles of Inclusion – Exclusion, Pigeon hole principles and its application.
UNIT IV
Recurrence Relations: Generating Functions, Function of Sequences, Calculating
Coefficients of generating functions, Recurrence relations, Solving recurrence relation by
substitution and Generating functions, the method of Characteristic roots, solution of
Inhomogeneous Recurrence Relations.
UNIT V
Graph Theory: Representation of Graphs, DFS, BFS, Spanning Trees, Planar Graphs.
Graph Theory and Applications: Basic Concepts, Isomorphism and Sub graphs, Multi graphs
and Euler circuits, Hamiltonian graphs, Chromatic Numbers.
TEXT BOOKS
1. “Elements of Discrete Mathematics- A Computer Oriented Approach, C.L.Liu, D.P.
Mohapatra, 3rdedition, Tata M c Graw Hill.
2.” Discrete Mathematics for Computer Scientists & Mathematicians,” Second edition, J.L.Mott,
A. Kandel, T.P. Baker, PHI
REFERENCES
1. Discrete Mathematics and its Applications, 5th edition, Kenneth.H.Rosen, TMH.
2. Discrete Mathematical Structures Theory and applications, Mallik and Sen, Cengage.
3. Discrete Mathematics with Applications, Thomas Koshy, Elsevier.
4. Logic and Discrete Mathematics, Grass Man and Tremblay, Pearson Education
76
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11CSE1117) PRINCIPLES OF PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES
Course Objectives:
1. Understand and analyze the importance and basic concepts of artificial
intelligence and the use of agents.
2. Identify, explore the complex problem solving approaches and strategies.
3. Explore and analyze the basic concepts of neural networks and learning
process.
4. Analyze and use the concept of neural network programming for various
domains.
Course Outcomes:
1. Implement the principles of various types of programming Languages.
2. Apply the syntax‐related concepts including various types of grammars,
parse trees, Recursive descent parsing, data types and also Axiomatic
and Denotational semantics.
3. Use various types of Expressions and Statements and illustrate the
language abstraction constructs of classes, interfaces, packages,
procedures and sub-programs
4. Compare the implementations of imperative, object‐oriented, functional
and logic languages.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 2 2 2 1 1 2 1 2 1 1 2
Principles of 1
CO-
Programming 2 2 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2
2
Languages
CO-
1 2 2 2 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 2
3
CO-
2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
4
UNIT-I
77
Preliminary Concepts: Reasons for studying, concepts of Programming languages,
Programming domains Language Evaluation Criteria, Influences on Language Design
Language categories.
Programming Paradigms---imperative, object-oriented, functional programming, logic
programming. Programming Language Implementation--- compilation and virtual machines,
Programming environments.
UNIT-II
Syntax and Semantics: General Problem of describing syntax and semantics, formal methods
of describing syntax---BNF, EBNF for common programming languages features, parse trees,
ambiguous grammars, attribute grammars, denotational semantics and axiomatic semantics for
common programming language features.
UNIT-III
Data types: Primitive, character, user defined, array, associative, record, union, pointer and
reference types, design and implementation uses related to these types. Names, Variable,
concept of binding, type checking, strong typing, type compatibility, named constants, variable
initialization.
Expressions and Statements: Arithmetic, Relational and Boolean expressions, Short circuit
evaluation, mixed mode assignment, Assignment statements, Control Structures --- Statement
level, Compound Statements, Selection, Iteration, Unconditional Statements, guarded
commands.
UNIT-IV
Subprograms and Blocks: Fundamentals of sub-programs, Scope and lifetime of variable,
static and dynamic scope, Local referencing environments, parameter passing methods,
overloaded sub-programs, generic sub-programs.
Abstract Data types: Introduction to data abstraction, encapsulation, and design issues, C++
parameterized ADT, object oriented programming in C++, Java. Concurrency---Subprogram
level concurrency, semaphores, monitors, message passing, and Java threads.
UNIT-V
Exception handling: Exceptions, Exception propagation, Exception handler in C++ and Java.
Logic Programming Language: Introduction and overview of logic programming, applications
of logic programming. Functional Programming Language: Introduction and fundamentals
of FPL, LISP, ML, Haskell, applications of FPL and comparison of functional and imperative
languages.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Concepts of Programming Languages Robert. W. Sebesta 6/e, Pearson Education.
2. Programming Languages-Louden, Second Edition, Thomson.
78
REFERENCES
1. Programming languages – Ghezzi, 3/e, John Wiley
2. Programming Languages Design and Implementation – Pratt and Zelkowitz, Fourth Edition
PHI/Pearson Education.
3. Programming Languages – Watt, Wiley Dreamtech
4. Programming in PROLOG Clocksin, Springer.
79
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11ITD1119) DIGITAL LOGIC DESIGN
Course Objectives:
This course covers the basics of digital logic circuits and design:
1. Boolean algebra and number systems introduces the student to the
fundamentals of combinational logic design, their minimization(using K-
Maps/Tabulation Methods), this enables building of PLD's
2. Student uses the above techniques to design sequential circuits (both
synchronous and asynchronous).
3. Students will be provided with an opportunity to implement all the logic
circuits using VHDL.
4. By the end of the course the student will be able to design, simulate, build,
and debug combinational and sequential digital circuits based on an abstract
functional specification.
5. The student will also understand the basic internal workings of the central
processing unit of a computer and its interface with memory and input/output
subsystems.
Course Outcomes:
1. To apply the principles of Boolean algebra to manipulate and minimize
logic expressions.
2. To understand the functionalities, and minimization techniques using of
all logical gates(NAND, NOR, AND, NOR, NOT, XOR,XNOR…)
3. To design combinational circuits using adders, decoders, Multiplexers,
Encoders, De-Multiplexers, ROM , RAM, PLD’s
4. The operation of sequential(sync. & async.) circuits (flip-flops, counters,
registers, and register) and in analyzing the operation of sequential
circuits along with hazards handling
5. For all the above concepts students will be able to simulate the
functionalities using Verilog HDL with the support of the Lab.
80
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
1 1 2 1 2 2 2
1
Digital Logic CO-
2 2 1 1 2 1
Design 2
CO-
1 2 1 2 1 2 2
3
CO-
2 2 1 2 2 2 2 2 1
4
CO-
1 1 2 2 1 1 2 1 1
5
UNIT-I
NUMBERS SYSTEMS AND CODES:
Review of number systems- number base conversion-binary arithmetic- binary weighted and
non-weighted codes – Complements-Signed binary numbers-Error Detection and Correcting
Codes-Binary Logic.
UNIT-II
BOOLEAN ALGEBRA and GATE LEVEL MINIMIZATION:
Postulates and theorems- representation of switching functions-SOP and POS forms –
Canonical forms-digital logic gates –Karnaugh Maps –minimization using three variable, four
variable and five variable K-Maps, Don’t Care Conditions- NAND and NOR implementation ,
Other Two-Level Implementation –Exclusive –OR function -Integrated Circuits-Hardware
Description Language(HDL)
UNIT-III
DESIGN OF COMBINATIONAL CIRCUITS:
Tabular Minimization- Combinational Circuits- Analysis and Design Procedure- Binary adder
and subtractors – Carry Look-ahead adder-Decimal adder-Binary multiplier-magnitude
comparator-BCD adder- Decoders- Encoders-Multiplexers-Random Access Memory-Read
Only Memory-Programmable Logic Array-Programmable Array Logic - HDL for Combinational
Circuits
UNIT-IV
DESIGN OF SEQUENTIAL CIRCUITS:
Combinational Vs Sequential Circuits – Latches-Flip Flops-RS flip flop, JK flip flop, T flip flop,
D flip flop, Master-Slave Flip flop- Flip Flops excitation functions –Conversion of one flip flop to
another flip flop- Asynchronous Vs Synchronous circuits-Analysis of clocked sequential circuits-
State Table-State Diagram-State Reduction and State Assignment-Mealy and Moore
Machines-capabilities and limitations of Finite State Machine-State equivalence and machine
81
minimization-Design of synchronous counters- Ripple Counters-Asynchronous counters-
Registers-Shift Registers- HDL for Sequential circuits.
UNIT-V
ASYNCHRONOUS SEQUENTIAL LOGIC:
Introduction-Analysis Procedure, Circuits with Latches, Design Procedure-Reduction of state
and flow Tables – Race Free State Assignment Hazards, Design examples.
TEXT BOOKS
1. DIGITAL DESIGN , Third Edition , M.Morris Mano, Pearson Education/PHI.
2. FUNDAMENTALS OF LOGIC DESIGN, Roth, 5th Edition,Thomson.
REFERENCES
1. Switching and Finite Automata Theory by Zvi. Kohavi, Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Switching and Logic Design, C.V.S. Rao, Pearson Education
3. Digital Principles and Design Donald D.Givone, Tata McGraw Hill, Edition.
4. Fundamentals of Digital Logic & Micro Computer Design , 5TH Edition, M. Rafiquzzaman
John Wiley
82
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11ITD1206) ADVANCED DATA STRUCTURES LABORATORY
Course Objectives
1. To implement various object oriented concepts like abstraction, encapsulation,
polymorphism, inheritance etc.
2. To demonstrate exception handling mechanism.
3. To implement algorithms into programming code.
4. To implement dictionaries, various data structures like stacks, queues, trees,
graphs using templates.
Course Outcomes:
1. Relate various object oriented concepts
2. Implement different data structures and text processing techniques
3. Analyze performance of various data structures through implementation
4. Apply the knowledge of data structures and OOP concepts in the design
and implementation of applications
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 2 1 1 1
Advanced Data 1
CO-
Structures 1 2 2 2 1 1
2
Laboratory
CO-
1 2 2 2 1 1 1 1
3
CO-
1 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1
4
Week 1: Implementation of C++ programs using - Constructors, friend functions, Parameter
passing methods, this pointer, inline functions, static members, dynamic memory allocation,
exception handling.
83
Week 2: Implementation of C++ programs using: Function over Loading, Operator
Overloading, Function and class templates, inheritance types, runtime polymorphism using
virtual functions, abstract classes, streams I/O.
Week 3: Write C++ programs to implement the following using an array
a) Stack ADT b) Queue ADT c) Linear list
Week 4: Write C++ programs to implement the following using linked list
a) Stack ADT b) Queue ADT c) Linear list
Week 5: Write C++ programs to implement the following using an array
a) Circular Queue ADT b) Dequeue ADT
Week 6: Write C++ programs to implement the following using linked list
a) Circular Queue ADT b) Dequeue ADT c) Double linked list
Week 7: Write C++ programs to implement the following
Binary Search tree insertions
Binary Search tree deletions
Binary Search tree search
Week 8: Write C++ programs to implement Binary tree traversals (preorder, inorder,
postorder)
Week 9: Write C++ programs to implement bfs and dfs for a given graph
Week 10: Write C++ programs to implement
a) Heap sort b) merge sort
Week 11: Write C++ programs to implement all functions of dictionary (ADT) using hashing.
Week 12
Write C++ programs to implement Brute Force and Knuth –Morris-Pratt pattern matching
algorithm
84
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11EIE1209) BASIC ELETRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. To understand the basic concepts of circuit analysis
2. To analyze electrical circuits using network theorems and analysis of AC
circuits
3. To learn principle of operation, construction and characteristics of various
electronic devices.
4. To know about different applications of these devices
Course Outcomes:
1. To apply basic network theorems for solving electrical networks.
2. Analyze various Electrical networks using Kirchhoff’s laws.
3. To use the electronic devices in real time applications
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
Basic Electrical CO- 1 2 1 1 2
1
and Electronics
CO-
Laboratory
2
1 2 1 1 2
CO-
1 1 2 1 2
3
Demonstration (1 lab Session):
1. Identification, of R, L, C Components (Colour Codes),Potentiometers, variable
capacitors, DRB, DLB, DCB, Relays, Bread Boards.
2. Identification, Diodes, BJTs, Low power JFETs, MOSFETs, LEDs, LCDs,
Optoelectronic Devices, Linear and Digital ICs.
3. Study and operation of Multi meters (Analog and Digital), Function Generator,
Regulated Power Supplies and CRO.
PART A:
1. Verification of Kirchhoff’s laws
2. Verification of superposition theorem
3. Verification of maximum power transfer theorem on DC with resistive load
4. Experimental verification of Thevenin’s and Norton’s theorems
85
PART B:
1. Deflection sensitivity measurement of CRO.
2. PN Junction diode characteristics. (Forward bias and Reverse bias)
3. Zener diode characteristics and Zener voltage regulator.
4. Full wave Rectifier with & without filters
5. Half wave Rectifier with & without filters
6. Bridge Rectifier with & without filters
7. Transistor CE characteristics (Input and Output).
8. Drain and transfer characteristics of FET.
(Any 10 experiments should be completed)
86
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11CSE1118) COMPUTER GRAPHICS AND ANIMATION
Course Objectives:
1. Explain fundamental concepts and the theory of computer graphics and
animation.
2. Outline the algorithms and theories that form the basis of computer graphics
and modeling.
3. Construct application programming interface based on graphics algorithms.
4. Devise practical knowledge and experience on modeling technologies and
techniques.
Course Outcomes:
1. Analyze the theory and practical knowledge on computer graphics and
animation.
2. Build algorithms on computer graphics.
3. Describes the basics of graphics application programs including
animation.
4. Explain the principles and commonly used paradigms and techniques of
computer graphics.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 2 1 1
Computer 1
CO-
Graphics and 2 2 1 1 1
2
Animation
CO-
2 2 1
3
CO-
1 2 1 2
4
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
87
Introduction: Usage of Graphics and their applications, Presentation Graphics-Computer Aided
Design- Computer Art- Entertainment- Education and Training-Visualization- Image
Processing- Graphical User Interfaces
Over view of Graphics systems: Video Display Devices- Raster Scan systems-random scan
systems-Graphics monitors and workstations-Input devices-hard copy devices-Graphics
software
Output primitives: Points and Lines-Line Drawing Algorithms- Loading the Frame buffer- Line
function- Circle- Generating Algorithms- Ellipse Generating Algorithms-Other Curves- Parallel
Curve Algorithms-Curve Functions-Pixel Addressing- Filled Area Primitives-Filled Area
Functions- Cell Array- Character Generation
Attributes of Output Primitives: Line and Curve Attributes-Color and Gray scale levels- Area
Fill Attributes- Character Attributes-Bundled Attributes- Inquiry Functions-Anti aliasing
UNIT II
TWO DIMENSIONAL GEOMETRICALTRANSFORMATION AND VIEWING
Two dimensional geometric transformations - Matrix representations and homogeneous
coordinates, composite transformations; Two dimensional viewing - viewing pipeline, viewing
coordinate reference frame; widow-to-viewport coordinate transformation, Cohen -Sutherland-
and Cyrus-beck line clipping algorithms,Southerland-Hodgeman polygon clipping algorithm.
UNIT III
THREE DIMENSIONAL OBJECT REPRESENTATION
Three dimensional concepts; Three dimensional object representations - Polygon surfaces -
Polygon tables - Plane equations - Polygon meshes; Curved Lines and surfaces, Quadratic
surfaces; Blobby objects; Spline representations - Bezier curves and surfaces - B-Spline
curves and surfaces
UNIT IV
THREE DIMENSIONAL GEOMETRICAL TRANSFORMATION AND VIEWING
Three dimensional geometric and modeling transformations - Translation, Rotation, Scaling,
composite transformations; Three dimensional viewing - viewing pipeline, viewing coordinates,
Projections, Clipping; Visible surface detection methods: Depth buffer, scan line, Depth sorting,
BSP-tree methods, Area sud-division and octree methods
UNIT V
COMPUTER ANIMATION
Design of Animation Sequence, General computer Animation functions, Raster animation,
Computer animation languages, key frame systems, motion specifications
TEXT BOOKS
88
1. Computer Graphics C Version by Donald Hearn and M.Pauline Baker, Pearson
Education, New Delhi, 2004.
2. “Computer graphics principles &practice”, second edition in c, Foley, VanDam,
Feiner and Hughes, Pearson Education
REFERENCES
1. “Procedural elements for Computer Graphics”, David Rogers, Tata McGraw hill,2nd
edition
2. “Computer Graphics”, Steven Harington, TMH
3. “Principles of interactive Computer Graphics” Neuman and sproul,TMH
4. “Computer Graphics” Second Edition zhigand xiang, Roy Plastock, schaums
outlines, TMH Edition.
89
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11CSE1108) OPERATING SYSTEMS
Course Objectives:
1. Analyze the tradeoffs inherent in operating system design.
2. Summarize the various approaches to solving the problem of mutual exclusion in
an operating system.
3. Evaluate the trade-offs in terms of memory size (main memory, cache memory,
auxiliary memory) and processor speed.
4. Demonstrate disk storage strategies, file strategies and system protection and
security with different crypto models.
Course Outcomes:
1. Identify the System calls, protection and interrupts of any GOS.
2. Explain Input/output, disk access, file systems facilities any GOS()
3. Write application keeping Concurrency and synchronization
Semaphores/monitors, sharedmemory, mutual exclusion
4. Process scheduling services of an GOS in the mind
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
1 2 1 2 1 2 2
1
Operating CO-
1 2 1 2 2 1 2
Systems 2
CO-
2 1 2 2 1 1 2 1
3
CO-
2 1 1 2 2 1 1 2 1
4
UNIT-I
Computer System and Operating System Overview- Overview of Computer System hardware .
Operating System Objectives and functions, Evaluation of operating System ,Example
Systems. Operating System Services , System Calls , System Programs, Process
Management- Process Description ,Process Control, Process States, Cooperating Processes ,
Inter-process Communication.
90
UNIT –II
CPU Scheduling- Basic Concepts, Scheduling Criteria, Scheduling Algorithms and evaluation.
Threads Overview, Threading issues.
Concurrency - Principles of Concurrency, Mutual Exclusion, Software and hardware
approaches , Semaphores , Monitors , Message Passing , Classic problems of
synchronization.
UNIT-III
Principles of deadlock-System Model , Deadlock Characterization , Methods for handling
Deadlocks, Deadlock Prevention, Deadlock avoidance ,Deadlock detection ,Recovery from
Deadlocks, Dining philosophers problem .
UNIT-IV
Memory Management – Basic concepts, Swapping, Contiguous memory allocation, Paging,
Segmentation, Virtual memory, Demand paging, Page-replacement algorithms, Thrashing.
Secondary storage structure-Disk structure, Disk scheduling, Disk management, Swap-space
Management, RAID structure, Stable-storage Implementation, Tertiary-Storage Structure
I/O systems- I/O hardware, Application I/O interface, Kernel I/O subsystem, Transforming I/O
request to hardware operations, STREAMS
UNIT-V
File Management - File system-File concepts, Access methods, Directory structure, File system
mounting, File sharing and Protection. Implementing file systems-File system structure and
implementation, Directory implementation, Allocation methods, Free-space management,
Efficiency and performance
Security - Security threats, Protection, Intruders, Viruses, Trusted System.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Operating System Principles- Abraham Silberchatz, Peter B. Galvin, Greg Gagne 7th
Edition, John Wiley.
2. Operating Systems - Internal and Design Principles William Stallings, Fifth Edition-
2005, Pearson education/PHI
REFERENCES
1. Operating System A Design Approach-Crowley,TMH.
2. Modern Operating Systems, Andrew S Tanenbaum 2nd edition Pearson/PHI.
91
3. “An Introduction to Operating Systems, Concepts and Practice”, Pramod Chandra P.
Bhatt –PHI, 2003.
4. Operating Systems – A Concept based Approach – D.M.Dhamdhere, 2nd Edition, TMH.
92
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11HAS1102) BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Course objectives
1. To explain different forms of organizing private and public sector business
enterprises and to analyze the significance of Business Economics in solving
the problems of business enterprise. Also to define and analyze the concepts
of Demand, Elasticity of Demand and Demand Forecasting Methods.
2. To analyze the various types of costs and to determine the level of output at
which there is neither profit nor loss. To estimate capital requirements and to
describe various sources of mobilizing funds. Also to identify least cost
combinations of inputs produce desired quantity of output.
3. To describe the features of different market structure and pricing strategies.
4. To explain the basic accounting concepts and conventions. To elaborate the
importance of finance function for evaluating the economic status of a
business unit.
Course Outcomes:
1. Select the suitable form of business organization which meets the
requirement of selected business also perform decision – making
effectively in an uncertain frame work by applying concepts of
Managerial Economics
2. Meet and manipulate the demand efficiently and plan the future course
of action.
3. Apply right kind cost and to reduce cost by paying attention towards the
costs which can be regulated or reduced. Take decision whether to buy
or produce?
4. Reduce the cost of capital by selecting best sources of fund mobilization
and select best investment opportunity which yields higher rate of return.
93
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
Business 2 2 1 2
1
Economics and CO-
2 1 2
Financial 2
Analysis CO- 2 1 2
3
CO-
2 1 2
4
UNIT I
Business and new economic environment
Characteristic features of business; Features and evaluation of sole proprietorship;
Partnership; Joint stock company; Public enterprises and their types; Changing business
environment in post- liberalization scenario.
UNIT II
Introduction to business economics, and demand analysis
Definition; Nature and scope of managerial economics - demand analysis determinants; Law of
demand and its exceptions.
Elasticity of demand and demand forecasting
Definition; Types; Measurement and significance of elasticity of demand; Demand forecasting;
Factors governing demand forecasting; Methods of demand forecasting - survey methods,
statistical methods, expert opinion method, test marketing, controlled experiments, and
judgmental approach to demand forecasting.
UNIT III
Cost analysis
Cost concepts - opportunity cost, fixed vs. variable costs, explicit costs vs. implicit costs, and
out of pocket costs vs. imputed costs; Break-even analysis (BEA) - determination of break-
even point (simple problems), managerial significance, and limitations of BEA.
Capital and capital budgeting
Capital and its significance; Types of capital; Estimation of fixed and working capital
requirements; Methods and sources of raising finance.
Nature and scope of capital budgeting; Features of capital budgeting proposals; Methods of
capital budgeting - payback method, accounting rate of return (ARR), and net present value
method (simple problems)
94
UNIT IV
Theory of production
Production function - isoquants and isocosts, least cost combination of inputs, and laws of
returns; Internal and external economics of scale.
Market structures
Types of competition; Features of perfect competition, monopoly, and monopolistic
competition; Price-output determination in case of perfect competition and monopoly.
Pricing policies and methods
Cost plus pricing; Marginal cost pricing; Sealed bid pricing; Going rate pricing, Limit pricing,
Market skimming pricing, Penetration pricing, Two-part pricing, Block pricing, Bundling pricing,
Peak load pricing, Cross subsidization.
UNI T V
Introduction to financial accounting
Double-entry book keeping; Journal; Ledger; Trial balance; Final accounts - trading account,
profit and loss account, and balance sheet with simple adjustments.
Financial analysis through ratios
Computation; Analysis and interpretation of liquidity ratios - current ratio, and quick ratio;
Activity ratios - inventory turnover ratio, and debtor turnover ratio; Capital structure ratios –
debt-equity ratio, and interest coverage ratio; Profitability ratios - gross profit ratio, net profit
ratio, operating ratio, P/E ratio, and EPs.
TEXT BOOK
1. Managerial Economics and Financial Analysis by Aryasri, 2009; Publisher: Tata McGraw
Hill.
2. Managerial Economics by Varshney & Maheswari, 2009; Publisher: Sultan Chand.
REFERENCES
1. Financial Accounting for Management: An analytical perspective by Ambrish Gupta, 2010;
Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Managerial Economics by H. Craig Peterson & W. Cris Lewis; Publisher: Prentice Hall of
India.
95
96
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11CSE1119) DESIGN AND ANALYSIS OF ALGORITHMS
Course Objectives:
1. Design and analysis of algorithms is a basis of computer science. The
objective of this course is to cover key techniques for designing and
analyzing algorithms. The topics include (but not limited to) (1) divide and
conquer, (2) dynamic programming, (3) greedy algorithms, (4) backtracking,
(5) branch and bound, (6) time and space complexity analysis, , and (7)
theory of NP.
2. Learning classic algorithms
3. Devise correct and efficient algorithms for solving a given problem
4. Validate/Verify correctness of an algorithm.
Course Outcomes:
1. Describe and use major algorithmic techniques (divide-and-conquer,
dynamic programming, linear programming, greedy paradigm, graph
algorithms) and cite problems for which each technique is suitable.
2. Evaluate and compare different algorithms using worst-, average-, and
best-case analysis. Identify the complexity of problems.
3. Understand asymptotic notation, its properties and use in measuring
algorithm behavior
4. Determine asymptotic expressions for the worst-case execution time and
space requirements of algorithms and data structures.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Design and 1
CO-
Analysis of 1 1 1 1 1 1 2
2
Algorithms
CO-
1 1 1 1 2 1
3
CO-
1 1 1 1 1 2 1
4
97
UNIT I
Introduction: Algorithm, Psuedo code for expressing algorithms, Performance Analysis-Space
complexity, Time complexity, Asymptotic Notation- Big oh notation, Omega notation, Theta
notation. Disjoint Sets- disjoint set operations, union and find algorithms, spanning trees,
connected components and biconnected components.
UNIT II
Divide and conquer: General method , applications-Binary search, Quick sort, Merge sort,
Strassen’s matrix multiplication. Greedy method: General method, applications-Job
sequencing with dead lines, 0/1 knapsack problem, Minimum cost spanning trees, Single
source shortest path problem, Huffman Codes.
UNIT III
Dynamic Programming: General method, Principle of optimality, applications-Multistage
graphs, Matrix chain multiplication, Optimal binary search trees, 0/1 knapsack problem, All
pairs shortest path problem, Travelling sales person problem, Reliability design.
UNIT IV
Backtracking: General method, applications- Recursive Permutation Generator ,N-queen
problem, sum of subsets problem, Graph coloring, Hamiltonian cycles.
UNIT V
Branch and Bound: General method, applications - Travelling sales person problem,0/1
knapsack problem- LC Branch and Bound solution, FIFO Branch and Bound solution.
NP-Hard and NP-Complete problems: Basic concepts, non deterministic algorithms, NP -
Hard and NP Complete classes, Cook’s theorem.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Fundamentals of Computer Algorithms, Ellis Horowitz, Satraj Sahni and
Rajasekharam, Galgotia publications pvt. Ltd.
2. Introduction to Algorithms, second edition, T.H.Cormen, C.E.Leiserso R.L.Rivest,and
C.Stein, PHI Pvt. Ltd./ Pearson Education
REFERENCES
1. Algorithm Design: Foundations, Analysis and Internet examples M.T.Goodrich and
R.Tomassia,John wiley and sons.
2. Introduction to Design and Analysis of Algorithms A strategic approach R.C.T.Lee,
S.S.Tseng, R.C.Chang and T.Tsai, Mc Graw Hill.
3. Algorithms Richard Johnson baugh and Marcus Schaefer, Pearson Education
98
4. Fundamentals of Algorithmics by Brassard & Brattley PHI
99
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11CSE1110) DATA BASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Course objectıves:
1. To appreciate the nature of scripting and the role of scripting languages.
2. To effectively apply knowledge of PERL and PHP to new situations and learn
from the experience.
3. To be able to analyze requirements of software systems for the purpose of
determining the suitability of implementation of PERL, PYTHON or TCL.
4. To design and implement PERL, PYTHON and TCL software solutions that
accommodate specified requirements and constraints, based on analysis or
modeling or requirements specification.
Course Outcomes:
1. Understand, appreciate and effectively explain the underlying concepts
of database system architecture and technologies
2. Design and illustrate the database schema for a given scenario in an
Entity-Relationship(ER) model.
3. Analyse the features of Relational Data Model features in SQL and
formulate the queries in Relational Algebra, Calculus and SQL.
4. Define the concepts of Normalization and apply them for the design of
the database.
5. Summarize the concepts of transaction management and the data
storage.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 2 1 1 1
Database 1
CO-
Management 2 2 2 1 1
2
Systems
CO-
2 2 1 1
3
CO-
2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1
4
CO-
2 2 1 1
5
100
UNIT-I
Introduction to Databases and Database Management System - Database system
Applications - Advantages of DBMS over File System - Data Models – Instances and schema
- View of Data - Database Languages -DDL-DML - Database Users and Administrator -
Database System Structure.
UNIT-II
Database Design and ER diagrams – Attributes and Entity Sets – Relationships and
Relationship Sets – Constraints - Keys - Design Issues - Entity-Relationship Diagram- Weak
Entity Sets - Extended E-R Features - Database Design with ER model - Database Design for
Banking Enterprise
UNIT – III
Introduction to the Relational Model – Structure of RDBMS - Integrity Constraints over
Relations – Enforcing Integrity Constraints – Querying Relational Data - Relational Algebra and
Calculus.
Introduction to SQL- Data Definition commands, Data Manipulation Commands, Basic
Structure, Set operations Aggregate Operations - Join operations - Sub queries and correlated
queries, SQL functions , views ,Triggers, Embedded SQL.
UNIT – IV
Functional Dependencies– Introduction , Basic Definitions, Trivial and Non trivial
dependencies, closure of a set of dependencies, closure of attributes, irreducible set of
dependencies- Schema Refinement in Database Design- Problems Caused by Redundancy –
Decompositions – Problem Related to Decomposition –- Lossless Join Decomposition –
Dependency Preserving Decomposition - FIRST, SECOND, THIRD Normal Forms – BCNF ––
Multivalued Dependencies – Fourth Normal Form.
UNIT-V
Transaction concept- Transaction state- Implementation of atomicity and Durability-
Concurrent executions – Serializability, Recoverability
Lock Based Protocols, Timestamp Based Protocols, Validation Based Protocols, Multiple
Granularity, Dead Lock Handling – Failure Classification – Storage Structure - Recovery and
Atomicity- Log Based recovery – Recovery with concurrent transactions – Checkpoints .
File Organization – Organization of records in file - Data Dictionary Storage – Indexing and
Hashing – Basic Concepts , Ordered Indices,B+Tree Index files, B- tree index files – Static
Hashing – Dynamic Hashing – Comparision of Indexing with Hashing.
101
TEXTBOOKS.
1. Database System Concepts, Silberschatz, Korth , Fifth Edition, McGraw hill ( 1,2,3 & 5 Units)
2. Introduction to Database Systems, C.J.Date, Pearson Education (4th Unit)
REFERENCES:
1. Fundamentals of Database Systems, Elmasri Navrate Pearson Education
2. Database Management Systems, Raghuramakrishnan, Johannes Gehrke, TATA Mc Graw
Hill(1,2,3 & 5 Units)
3. Data base Systems design, Implementation, and Management, Peter Rob & Carlos
Coronel 7th Edition.
4. Data Base Systems using Oracle : A simplified guide to SQL and PL /SQL, Shah, PHI
102
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11CSE1120) SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
Course Objectives:
1. Understand the basic concepts, purposeandimportance ofsoftware.
2. Specify, analyze and design the requirementsfor aparticular project.
3. Design the analysis models and document them.
4. Understand the importance of risk and apply the test strategies applicable for
good quality software.
Course Outcomes:
1. Choose the appropriate Process model for the given project
2. Document the Requirements
3. Develop Different system Models and Create simple Test cases
4. Develop the skills for Software measurement and Prepare RMMI plan
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 1 2 1
1
Software CO-
1 2 2 1 1 1 2 1 2
Engineering 2
CO-
2 2 2 2 1 1
3
CO-
2 1 2 2 2 1 1
4
UNIT I
Introduction to Software Engineering: Changing nature of Software, Software Myths.A
Generic View Of Process:-Software engineering-A layered technology, The Capability Maturity
Model Integration (CMMI) Process Models:-The water fall model, Incremental process models,
evolutionary process models, the unified process.
UNIT II
Software Requirements Functional and non functional requirements, User requirements,
System requirements, Interface specification, The software requirements document.
Requirements Engineering Process:Feasibility studies, requirements elicitation and analysis,
requirements validation, requirements management
103
UNIT III
System models: context models, behavior models, data models, object models, structured
methods
Design engineering: design process and design quality, design concepts the design model
Creating an architectural design: software architecture, data design, architectural styles and
patterns, architectural design
UNIT IV
Test Strategies : A strategic approach to software testing Black box and White box Testing,
Validation Testing, System Testing,
Product Metrics ,Software Quality, Metrics for analysis model, Metrics for design model,
Metrics for source code, Metrics for testing, Metrics for maintenance Metrics for process and
products Software measurement, Metrics for software quality
UNIT V
Risk Management Reactive vs proactive risk strategies, Software risks, Risk identification,
Risk projection Risk refinement, RMMM, RMMM plan Quality Management, Quality concepts,
Software quality assurance, Software reviews, Formal technical reviews, Statistical Software
Quality Assurance, Software reliability, ISO 9000 Quality standards
TEXT BOOKS
1. Software engineering- A practitioner’s Approach, Roger S.Pressman, McGraw-Hill
International Edition, 5th edition, 2001.
2. Software engineering, Ian Sommerville, Pearson education Asia, 6th edition, 2000.
REFERENCES
1. “An Integrated Approach to Software Engineering” - Pankaj Jalote, Springer Verlag, 1997.
2. “Software Engineering- An Engineering Approach”- James F Peters and Witold Pedryez,
John Wiley and Sons, New Delhi, 2000.
3. “Software Engineering Fundamentals”- Ali Behforooz and Frederick J Hudson, Oxford
University Press, New Delhi, 1996.
4. Software Engineering – Aprimer, Waman S Jawadekar, TMH, 2008.
104
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE – IISem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11CSE1203) OPERATING SYSTEMS LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. General understanding of structure of modern computers and Operating
Systems.
2. Understanding the Purpose, structure and functions of operating systems
3. Illustration of key OS functions through C programming with examples
Course Outcomes:
1. Identify the System calls, protection and interrupts of any GOS.
2. Explain Input/output, disk access, file systems facilities any GOS()
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
Operating a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
Systems 2 2 1 2
1
Laboratory
CO-
2 2 1 2 1 1 1 1
2
Week 1 & 2
1. Simulate the following CPU scheduling algorithms
a) FCFS b) SJF c) Priority d) Round Robin
Week 3 & 4
2) Simulate MVT and MFT
Week 5
3) Simulate Paging Technique of memory management
Week 6 & 7
4) Simulate all page replacement algorithms
a) FIFO b) LRU c) LFU Etc. …
Week 8
5) Simulate Bankers Algorithm for Dead Lock Avoidance
105
Week 9
6) Simulate Bankers Algorithm for Dead Lock Prevention
Week 10
7) Simulate all File Organization Techniques
a) Single level directory b) Two level c) Hierarchical d) DAG
Week 11 & 12
8) Simulate all file allocation strategies
a) Sequential b) Indexed c) Linked
106
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11CSE1208) DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. To provide a strong formal foundation in database concepts and relational
model.
2. To familiarize the students with the nuances of database environments
towards data-process oriented framework
3. To present SQL and procedural interfaces of SQL comprehensively
4. To give an introduction to systematic database design approaches covering
conceptual design, logical design and an overview of physical design and to
present the concepts and techniques relating to query processing by SQL
engines
Course Outcomes:
1. Create, maintain and manipulate SQL/ Oracle Database.
2. Design and implement a database schema for a given problem-domain
and
3. Normalize a database schema
4. Declare and enforce integrity constraints on a database using a state-of-
the-art RDBMS and Populate and query a database using SQL
commands and PL/SQL features like cursors, triggers and stored
procedures
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
Database
a b c d e f g h i j k l
Management CO-
1 1 1 1 2 1 2 2
Systems 1
Laboratory CO- 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2
2
CO-
1 2 1 2 2 1
3
CO-
1 1 1 1 1 2 1
4
Objective: This lab enables the students to practice the concepts learnt in the subject DBMS by
developing a database for an example company named "Roadway Travels" whose description is as
107
follows. The student is expected to practice the designing, developing and querying a database in
the context of example database "Roadway travels". Students are expected to use "Oracle"
database.
Roadway Travels
"Roadway Travels" is in business since 1997 with several buses connecting different places in
India. Its main office is located in Hyderabad.
The company wants to computerize its operations in the following areas:
• Reservations and Ticketing
• Cancellations
Reservations & Cancellation:
Reservations are directly handled by booking office. Reservations can be made 30 days in
advance and tickets issued to passenger. One Passenger/person can book many tickets (to his/her
family).
Cancellations are also directly handed at the booking office.
In the process of computerization of Roadway Travels you have to design and develop a
Database which consists the data of Buses, Passengers, Tickets, and Reservation and cancellation
details. You should also develop query's using SQL to retrieve the data from the database.
The above process involves many steps like
1. Analyzing the problem and identifying the Entities and Relationships
2. E-R Model
3. Relational Model
4. Normalization
5. Creating the database
6. Querying.
Students are supposed to work on these steps week wise and finally create a complete
"Database System" to Roadway Travels. Examples are given at every experiment for guidance to
students.
Experiment 1: E-R Model
Analyze the problem carefully and come up with the entities in it. Identify what data has to be
persisted in the database. This contains the entities, attributes etc.
Identify the primary keys for all the entities. Identify the other keys like candidate keys, partial keys, if
any.
Note: The student is required to submit a document by writing the Entities and Keys to
the lab teacher.
Experiment 2: Concept design with E-R Model
Relate the entities appropriately. Apply cardinalities for each relationship. Identify strong entities
and weak entities (if any). Indicate the type of relationships (total / partial). Try to
incorporate generalization, aggregation, specialization etc wherever required.
Note: The student is required to submit a document by drawing the E-R Diagram to the
lab teacher.
Experiment 3: Relational Model
108
Represent all the entities (Strong, Weak) in tabular fashion. Represent relationships in a tabular
fashion. There are different ways of representing relationships as tables based on the cardinality.
Represent attributes as columns in tables or as tables based on the requirement. Different types of
attributes (Composite, Multi-valued, and Derived) have different way of representation.
Note: The student is required to submit a document by Represent relationships in a tabular
fashion to the lab teacher.
Experiment 4: Normalization
Database normalization is a technique for designing relational database tables to minimize duplication of
information and, in so doing, to safeguard the database against certain types of logical or structural
problems, namely data anomalies. For example, when multiple instances of a given piece of
information occur in a table, the possibility exists that these instances will not be kept consistent when the
data within the table is updated, leading to a loss of data integrity. A table that is sufficiently normalized
is less vulnerable to problems of this kind, because its structure reflects the basic assumptions for
when multiple instances of the same information should be represented by a single instance only.
Experiment 5: Practicing DDL and DML commands
Create all the normalized tables that are identified in Experiment 4.
Insert data into the above tables.
Experiment 7: Querying
In this week you are going to practice queries (along with sub queries) using ANY, ALL, IN, Exists,
NOT EXISTS, UNION, INTERSECT, Constraints etc.
Practice the following Queries:
1. Display unique PNR_no of all passengers.
2. Display all the names of male passengers.
3. Display the ticket numbers and names of all the passengers.
4. Find the ticket numbers of the passengers whose name start with V and ends
with 'h'.
5. Find the names of passengers whose age is between 30 and 45.
6. Display all the passengers names beginning with 'A'
7. Display the sorted list of passengers names.
Experiment 8 Querying (continued...)
You are going to practice queries using Aggregate functions (COUNT, SUM, AVG, and MAX and MIN),
GROUP BY, HAVING and Creation and dropping of Views.
8. Write a Query to display the Information present in the Passenger and
cancellation tables. Hint: Use UNION Operator.
9. Display the number of days in a week on which the 9WO1 bus is available.
10. Find number of tickets booked for each PNR_no using GROUP BY CLAUSE.
Hint: Use GROUP BY on PNR_No.
11. Find the distinct PNR numbers that are present.
12. Find the number of tickets booked by a passenger where the
number of seats is greater than 1. Hint: Use GROUP BY, WHERE and
109
HAVING CLAUSES.
13. Find the total number of cancelled seats.
14. Display the details of passengers who travelled within the last 3 months.
15. Create a view for the details of passengers who cancelled their tickets.
Experiment 9: Create tables for the following schema.
Student(snum: integer, sname: string, major: string, level: string, age: integer)
Class(name: string, meets at: time, room: string, fid: integer)
Enrolled(snum: integer, cname: string)
Faculty(fid: integer, fname: string, deptid: integer)
Experiment 10: Querying
1. Find the names of all Juniors (Level = JR) who are enrolled in a class taught by I. Teacher.
2. Find the age of the oldest student who is either a History major or is enrolled in a course
taught by I. Teacher.
3. Find the names of all classes that either meet in room R128 or have 5 or more students
enrolled.
4. Find the names of all students who are enrolled in two classes that meet at the same time.
5. Find the names of faculty members who teach in every room in which some class is taught.
6. Find the names of faculty members for whom the combined enrollment of the courses that
they teach is less than 5
7. Print the Level and the average age of students for that Level, for each Level.
8. Print the Level and the average age of students for that Level, for all Levels except JR.
9. Print the Level and the average age of students for that Level, whose average age is greater
than 20.
10. Find the names of students who are enrolled in the maximum number of classes.
11. Find the names of students who are not enrolled in any class.
12. Count the number of junior level students.
13. Display all the students whose names starts with the letter “p”.
14. Display all the teachers whose names contain letter ‘a’ or ‘I’ in their names.
Experiment 11: PL/SQL Programs
1. Program to find sum of first ‘n’ natural no.s
2. Program to find reverse of a number
3. Insert the values of areas of a circle into a table called areas taking radius
values from 2 to 8.
Experiment 12: Cursors
In this week you need to do the following: Declare a cursor that defines a result set.
Open the cursor to establish the result set. Fetch the data into local variables as needed from the
cursor, one row at a time. Close the cursor when done. Practice the following programs using
cursors.
1. Write a cursor program to retrieve the details of all students using cursors ( Use students
table in experiment 9)
110
2. Write a PL/SQL block to update the level of students from JL to “junior Level” and SL to
“senior Level” and insert a record in new level table.
3. Write a cursor program to display the details of Senior Level students .
Experiment 13: Procedures
In this session you are going to learn Creation of stored procedure, Execution of procedure and
modification of procedure. Practice procedures using the above database.
Experiment 14: Triggers
In this week you are going to work on Triggers. Creation of insert trigger, delete trigger, update trigger.
Practice triggers using the above database.
REFERENCES
1. Introduction to SQL, Rick F.Vander Lans, Pearson education.
2. Oracle PL/SQL, B.Rosenzweig and E.Silvestrova,Pearson education.
3. Oracle PL/SQL Programming,Steven Feuerstein,SPD.
4. SQL & PL/SQL for Oracle 10g,Black Book, Dr.P.S.Deshpande,Dream Tech.
5. Oracle Database llg PL/SQL Programming, M.Laughlin. TMH.
6. SQL Fundamentals,! J.Patrick,Pearson Education.
111
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11CSE1104) FORMAL LANGUAGES AND AUTOMATA THEORY
Course Objectives:
1. To introduce the theoretical foundations of computer science concerning– the
relationships between languages and machines, the inherent limits of what
can be computed, and the inherent efficiency of solving problems.
2. To determine a language’s location in the Chomsky hierarchy (regular sets,
context-free, context-sensitive, and recursively enumerable languages).
3. To convert among equivalently powerful notations for a language, including
among DFAs, NFAs, and regular expressions, and between PDAs and CFGs.
4. To discuss the applications of theory to other areas of computer science such
as algorithms, programming languages, compilers, natural language
translation, operating systems, and software verification and to build the
foundation for students to pursue research in the areas of automata theory,
formal languages, and computational power of machines
Course Outcomes:
1. Understand the theory of automata.
2. Classify computational devices according to their computational power,
and tools which will allow us to tell if a device is powerful enough to
solve a given computational problem.
3. Understand the concept of the grammar and concept of programming
language.
4. Understand Turing machine concept and in turn the technique applied in
computers and Classify P vs NP- Class problems and NP-Hard vs NP-
complete problems
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
Formal
a b c d e f g h i j k l
Languages and CO-
1 1 1 1 2 2 2
Automata 1
Theory CO- 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2
2
CO-
1 1 1 2 2
3
CO-
1 2 1 1
4
112
UNIT-I
Fundamentals: strings, Alphabet, Language, Operations, Chomsky hierarchy of languages,
Finite state machine Definitions, finite automation model, acceptance of strings and languages,
DFA and NFA, transition diagrams and language recognizers. NFA with ε transitions –
Equivalence between NFA with and without ε transitions, NFA to DFA conversion, minimization
FSM, equivalence between two FSM’s, Output machines- Moore and Mealy machine.
UNIT –II
Regular Languages : Regular Sets , Regular Expressions , identity Rules, Constructing Finite
automata for a given regular expressions, Conversion of Finite automata to regular
expressions, Pumping lemma of regular sets , closure properties of regular sets (proofs not
required). Regular Grammars – right linear and left linear grammars, equivalence between
regular grammar and FA,
UNIT –III
Context Free Grammar, derivation trees, sentential forms, right most and left most derivations
of strings. Ambiguity in Context free Grammars. Minimization of Context free grammars, CNF,
GNF, Pumping Lemma for Context Free Languages. Enumeration of properties of CFL (proofs
omitted).
Push Down Automata- definition, model, acceptance of CFL, Acceptance by final state and
acceptance by empty state and its equivalence, Equivalence of CFL and PDA (proofs not
required), Introduction to DCFL and DPDA.
UNIT –IV
Turing Machine: Definition, model, Design of TM, computable functions, recursively
enumerable languages. Church’s hypothesis, counter machine, types of Turing Machines
(proofs not required)
UNIT –V
Computability Theory: Linear Bounded Automata and context sensitive languages, LR (0)
grammar, decidability of problems, Universal TM, Un decidable problems about Turing
Machine – Post’s Correspondence Problem - The classes P and NP.
TEXT BOOKS
1. “Introduction to Automata Theory, Languages and Computations”, H.E.Hopcroft, R.Motwani
and J.D Ullman, Second Edition, Pearson Education, 2003.
2. “Introduction of the Theory and Computation”, Micheal Sipser, Thomson Brokecole, 1997.
REFERENCES
1. “Elements of The theory of Computation”, H.R.Lewis and C.H.Papadimitriou, Second
Edition, Pearson Education/PHI, 2003
113
2. “Introduction to Languages and the Theory of Computation”, J.Martin, Third Edition, TMH,
2003.
3. “Theory of Computer Science- Automata Languages and computation”, Mishra and Chandra
shekaran, Second Edition PHI.
4. “Formal languages and Automata Theory”, K.V.N.Sunitha & N.Kalyani TMH,2010.
114
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11ECE1108) MICROPROCESSORS AND MICROCONTROLLERS
Course Objectives:
1. To learn the Architecture, addressing modes and instruction set of 8086
and 8051.
2. To learn the programming concepts of 8086 and 8051.
3.To interface various peripherals to 8086.
Course Outcomes:
1. Select the proper architecture for the implementation of digital designs
2. Write various assembly language programs for 8086 and 8051.
3. Design and implement microprocessor based systems.
4. Hardware and software interaction and integration.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
Microprocessors a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
and 1 2 2 2 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1
1
Microcontrollers
CO-
2 2 2 2 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1
2
CO-
2 2 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
3
CO-
2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
4
UNIT I
Introduction to 8085 Microprocessor, Architecture of 8086 Microprocessor, Addressing modes
of 8086, Instruction set of 8086, Assembler directives, simple assembly language programs,
procedures, and macros. Pin diagram of 8086-Minimum mode and maximum mode of
operation. Memory and I/O organization of 8086.
UNIT II
115
8255 PPI – various modes of operation and interfacing to 8086. Interfacing Keyboard &
Displays, D/A and A/D converter to 8086 using 8255, memory interfacing to 8086, Interfacing
8257 DMA Controller to 8086.
UNIT III
Serial Communication standards, serial data transfer schemes, 8251 USART architecture and
interfacing, RS-232, IEEE 488 standards. Interrupt structure of 8086, Interrupt Vector Table.
Need for 8259 Programmable Interrupt Controller.
UNIT IV
Introduction to Microcontrollers, 8051 Microcontroller Architecture, I/O ports, memory
organization, counters and Timers, Serial data Input/Output, Interrupts. Addressing modes,
Instruction set of 8051, Simple programs.
Timer, serial port and Interrupts programming: Programming 8051 timers/counters, 8051 serial
port programming, programming timer interrupts, programming External hardware interrupts,
programming serial communication interrupts.
UNIT V
The AVR RISC microcontroller architecture: Introduction, AVR family architecture, Register
File, The ALU, Memory access and Instruction execution, I/O memory, EEPROM, I/O ports,
Timers, UART, Interrupt structure.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Microprocessors and interfacing – Douglas V. Hall, TMH, 2nd Edition, 1999.
2. 8051 Microcontroller – Kenneth J. Ayala, Penram International/ Thomson, 3rd Edition.
3. The 8051 microcontrollers and Embedded systems- Mazidi and mazidi, PHI, 2000.
REFERENCES
1. Micro computer systems, The 8086/8088 Family Architecture, Programming and
Design – Y.Liu and G.A. Gibson, PHI, 2nd edition.
2. Advanced microprocessors and Peripherals – A.K.Ray and K.M.Bhurchandi, TMH,
2000.
3. Micro Computer System 8086/8088 Family Architecture Programming and Design –
By Liu and GA Gibson PHI, 2nd Edition
4. Microcontrollers and Applications, Ajay . V. Deshmukh, TMGH,2005.
5. The 8085 Microprocessor : Architecture Programming and Interfacing – K.Uday
Kumar, B.S Umashankar, Pearson , 2008.
116
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11CSE1105) ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
Course Objectives:
1. Understand and analyze the importance and basic concepts of artificial
intelligence and the use of agents.
2. Identify, explore the complex problem solving approaches and strategies.
3. Explore and analyze the basic concepts of neural networks and learning
process.
4. Analyze and use the concept of neural network programming for various
domains.
Course Outcomes:
1. To analyze and apply the basic the concepts of artificial intelligence and
the use of agents into the real world scenario.
2. To identify, analyze, formulate and solve complex problems by using
various search techniques.
3. To synthesize, create and solve various issues in developing the Games
and specify various constraints involved in solving complex problems.
4. To have better understanding of logic programming skills and resolve
problems related to reasoning.
5. To use and apply various form of learning techniques and design the
solutions for complex problems.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
1 1 1 1 2 1 1
1
Artificial CO-
1 2 2 1 1 1
Intelligence 2
CO-
1 2 2 1 1
3
CO-
2 2 2 2 1 1 1
4
CO-
1 2 2 1 1 1
5
117
UNIT I
Introduction
Introduction to AI – Foundations of Artificial Intelligence –State of the art. Intelligent agents-
Agents & Environments- Nature of Environments- Structure of Agents. Problem solving agents
– Example problems- searching for solutions.
UNIT II
Search techniques – uninformed search strategies- Breadth First, Depth First, Depth limited ,
Iterative deepening depth- First search, Bidirectional search, comparison.
Informed search strategies- Greedy Best first search , A*, Heuristic search, Heuristic
functions, local search Algorithms-Hill climbing search, simulated annealing. Online search
agents.
UNIT III
Constraint satisfaction problems – Back tracking search for CSPs. Adversial search- Game
playing – optimal strategies – minimax algorithm – alpha Beta Pruning – Evaluation Functions
– Cutting off Search.
Knowledge & Reasoning – Logical Agents, Knowledge Based Agents – Propositional logic –
Reasoning in Propositional Logic – Resolution – Forward & Backward chaining.
UNIT IV
First order logic – Syntax & semantics of first order logic – Models, symbols, terms,
quantifiers.
fPropositional vs First Order Inference –Unification & Lifting – Forward Chaining – Algorithm,
Backward chaining – Algorithm, Logic programming, Resolution – Procedure, Examples.
UNIT V
Planning – Planning Problem, Planning with state space search – Forward, Backward,
Heuristics. Planning Graphs – Algorithm.
Learning – Forms of Learning, Inductive Learning, Learning Decision trees.
AI – Present and Future.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Artificial Intelligence: A modern approach by Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig. 2nd Edition,
Prentice Hall, 2010.
2. Artificial Intelligence – E.Rich and K.Knight, II Edition, TMH.
REFERENCES:
1. Artificial Intelligence – Agents and Environments by William John Teahan
2. Fundamentals of the new Artificial Intelligence (Second Edition) by Toshinori Munakata.
Springer Second edition.
3. Artificial intelligence : A new Synthesis.J.Nillson. Elsevier Publishers.
118
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11CSE1114) OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING
Course Objectives:
On completion, students will be able
1. Understand Object Oriented Programming concepts
2. Write efficient and effective applications in Java
3. Design and implement a Java Applet.
4. Explore how object-oriented design principles were used to extend Java's GUI
capabilities.
Course Outcomes:
1. Understand the concept and underlying principles of Object-Oriented
Programming
2. Relate object-oriented concepts to the Java programming
3. Develop problem-solving and programming skills using Java concepts
such as multi-threading, IO and language packages and exceptional
handling
4. Design and develop GUI for an application and to understand the event-
based GUI handling principles
5. Implement Java applets and applications for real time problems
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 2 1 1 1 1
1
Object Oriented CO-
2 2 1 1
Programming 2
CO-
1 2 2 1 2 1 1
3
CO-
1 2 2 1 2 2 1 1 2 2
4
CO-
1 2 2 1 2 2 1 1 2 2
5
119
UNIT – I
Fundamentals of Object Oriented programming: Object Oriented paradigm - Basic
concepts of Object Oriented Programming - Benefits of OOP - Applications of OOP
Java Evolution: Java Features - How Java differs from C and C++ - Java and Internet - Java
and World Wide Web - Web Browsers - Hardware and Software Requirements - Java
Environment. Overview of Java Language: Simple Java Program - Java Program Structure -
Java Tokens- Java Statements - Implementing a Java Program - Java Virtual Machine -
Constants - Variables - Data types - Scope of Variables-Symbolic Constants-Type Casting and
type promotions – Operators, Operator Precedence and Associativity - Control Statements –
break - continue- Arrays-Multi dimensional arrays, Wrapper Classes - Simple examples.
UNIT – II
Classes - Objects - Constructors – methods - this keyword – garbage collection- finalize -
Overloading methods and constructors - Access Control- Static members – nested and inner
classes – command line arguments - variable length arguments.
Inheritance – forms of inheritance – specialization, specification, construction, extension,
limitation, combination, benefits and costs of inheritance. Super uses- final - polymorphism,
method overriding - dynamic method dispatch –abstract classes – exploring string class.
UNIT – III
Packages & Interfaces - Defining and accessing a package – understanding CLASSPATH –
access protection importing packages – Interfaces - Defining and implementing an interface,
Applying interfaces, Variables in interfaces and extended interfaces. Exploring java.lang and
java.util packages.
Exception Handling-Fundamentals, usage of try, catch, multiple catch clauses, throw, throws
and finally. Java Built in Exceptions and creating own exception subclasses.
UNIT – IV
Multithreaded Programming: Java Thread life cycle model – Thread creation - Thread
Exceptions - Thread Priority – Synchronization - Messaging - Runnable Interface - Interthread
Communication - Deadlock - Suspending, Resuming and stopping threads.
I/O Streams: File – Streams – Advantages - The stream classes – Byte streams – Character
streams.
Networks basics: Socket Programming - Proxy Servers - TCP/IP Sockets - Net Address - URL
- Datagram’s
UNIT – V
Applet Programming: How Applets differ from Applications - Applet Life Cycle - Creating an
Applet - Running the Applet- Designing a Webpage - Applet Tag - Adding Applet to HTML file -
More about Applet Tag - Passing parameters to Applets - Aligning the display.
120
Event handling- basics of event handling, Event classes, Event Listeners, delegation event
model, handling mouse and keyboard events, adapter classes, AWT Class hierarchy - AWT
Controls - Layout Managers and Menus, limitations of AWT, Swing, MVC architecture,
components, containers, exploring swing.
TEXT BOOKS
1 Complete Reference Java J2SE, Herbert Schildt, The, 5th Edition, , TMH.
2. Core Java Cay S.Horstmann, Gary Cornell 2 Volume I Fundamentals,5th Edn. PHI,2000.
REFERENCES
1. The Java Programming Language - Second Edition, K. Arnold and J. Gosling - Addison
Wesley, 1996.
2 . Java Programming and Objected Oriented Application Development, Richard A. Johnson -
INDIA Edition CENGAGE Learning.
3. Object Oriented Programming with Java, R.Buyya, S.T.Selvi, X.Chu –TMH.
4. An Introduction to Java Programming Y.Daniel Liang –- Pearson Education.
121
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-I 3 1 3
(R11CSE1109) ADVANCED COMPUTER ARCHITECTURE
Course Objectives:
1. Explore the classes of computers, and new trends and developments in
computer architecture
2. Understand pipelining, instruction set architectures, memory addressing.
3. Understand the various techniques to enhance a processors ability to exploit
Instruction-level parallelism (ILP), and its challenges.
4. Analyze and explore the symmetric shared-memory architectures and their
performance, several advanced optimizations to achieve cache performance
and also understand storage systems, RAID, I/O performance, and reliability
measures.
Course Outcomes:
1. Describe the principles of computer design.
2. Classify instruction set architectures.
3. Analyze the operation of performance enhancements such as pipelines,
caches, shared memory.
4. Describe modern architectures such as RISC, VLIW (very large
instruction word) and multi-cpu systems and compare the performance
of different architectures
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
1 1 2 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 1
Advanced 1
CO-
Computer 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 1
2
Architecture
CO-
1 1 1 1 2 1 1 2 2 1 2 1
3
CO-
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 1 1 1
4
UNIT – I
122
Fundamentals of Computer design- Technology trends- cost price and their trends-
measuring and reporting performance - quantitative principles of computer design.
UNIT – II
Instruction set principles and examples- Classifying instruction set architecture - memory
addressing- type and size of operands- operations in the instruction set- instructions for control
flow- encoding an instructionset.
UNIT – III
Instruction level parallelism (ILP)and its dynamic explotation – Concepts and challenges-
overcoming data hazards- reducing branch costs with dynamic hardware prediction – high
performance instruction delivery- hardware based speculation
ILP software approach- compiler techniques- static branch protection - VLIW approach - H.W
support for more ILP at compile time- H.W verses S.W Solutions
UNIT - IV
Memory hierarchy design- review of the ABCs of caches - cache performance- reducing
cache misses penalty and miss rate – virtual memory.
Multiprocessors and thread level parallelism- symmetric shared memory architectures-
distributed shared memory- Synchronization- multi threading.
UNIT - V
Storage systems - Types – Buses - RAID- errors and failures - designing an I/O system in five
easy pieces..
Inter connection networks and clusters - interconnection network media – practical issues in
interconnecting networks – clusters- designing a cluster.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Computer Architecture A quantitative approach 3rd edition John L. Hennessy & David A.
Patterson Morgan Kufmann (An Imprint of Elsevier).
2. Advanced Computer Architecture second Edition , Kai Hwang, Tata McGraw Hill Publishers.
REFERENCES
1. Advanced Computer Architectures, Dezso Sima, Terence Fountain, Peter Kacsuk, Pearson.
2. Parallel Computer Architecture, A Hardware / Software Approach, David E. Culler,
Jaswinder Pal singh with Anoop Gupta, Elsevier
3. Computer Architecture, B.Parhami, Oxford Univ.Press.
4. Advanced Computer Architecture, S.G.Shiva, Speacial Indian Edsition, CRC, Taylor &
Francis.
123
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-I 3 1 3
(R11CSE1111) DISTRIBUTED COMPUTING
Course Objectives:
The student should have learned the following:
1. Describe the differences among: concurrent, networked, distributed, and mobile.
2. Discuss Resource allocation and deadlock detection and avoidance techniques.
3. Analyze Remote procedure calls in Distributed Computing.
4. Design IPC mechanisms in distributed systems.
Course Outcomes:
1. Develop, test and debug RPC based client-server programs in UNIX.
2. Design and build application programs on distributed systems.
3. Improve the performance and reliability of distributed programs.
4. Design and build newer distributed file systems for any OS.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 1 2 1 2 1 2 2 1 2
1
Distributed CO-
2 1 2 1 2 1 2 2 1
Computing 2
CO-
1 2 1 2 2 1 1 2 2 1 2
3
CO-
2 2 2 1 1 1 2 1 2 1
4
UNIT I
Introduction
Definitions, The different forms of computing - Monolithic, Distributed, Parallel and cooperative
computing, the meaning of Distributed computing, Examples of Distributed systems, the
strengths and weaknesses of Distributed computing, operating system concepts relevant to
distributed computing, Network basics, the architecture of distributed applications, Interprocess
124
Communications-An Archetypal IPC Program Interface, Event Synchronization, Timeouts and
Threading,
UNIT II
Distributed Computing Paradigms
Paradigms and Abstraction, Paradigms for Distributed Applications -Message Passing
Paradigm, The Client-Server Paradigm, The peer-to-peer Paradigm, Message system (or
MOM) Paradigm - the point-to-point message model and the publish/subscribe message
model, RPC model, The Distributed Objects Paradigms - RMI, ORB, the object space
Paradigm, The Mobile Agent Paradigm, the Network Services Paradigm, The collaborative
application (Groupware Paradigm) .choosing a Paradigm for an application.
UNIT III
The Socket API-The Datagram Socket API, The Stream-Mode Socket API, Client-Server
Paradigm Issues, Connection- Oriented and Connectionless Servers, Iterative and
Concurrent Servers. Group Communication-Unicasting versus Multicasting, Multicast API,
Connectionless versus Connection-Oriented Multicast, Reliable Multicasting versus Unreliable
Multicasting, the Java Basic Multicast API.
UNIT IV
Distributed Objects Paradigm (RMI)
Message passing versus Distributed Objects, An Archetypal Distributed Object Architecture,
Distributed Object Systems, RPC, RMI, The Java RMI Architecture, Java RMI API, A sample
RMI Application, steps for building an RMI application, testing and debugging, comparison of
RMI and socket API
UNIT V
Distributed Object Paradigm (CORB A)
The basic Architecture, The CORE A object interface, Inter-ORB protocols, object servers and
object clients, CORE A object references, CORB A Naming Service and the Interoperable
Naming Service, CORBA object services, object Adapters, Java IDL, An example CORBA
application.
Grid Computing
Introduction, Grid Computing Anatomy - The Grid Problem, The Concept of Virtual
Organizations, Grid Architecture, Grid Architecture and relationship to other Distributed
Technologies, Grid computing road map. Merging the Grid services Architecture with the Web
Services Architecture.
TEXTBOOKS
125
1. Distributed Computing, Principles and Applications, M.L.Liu, Pearson Education.
2. Grid Computing, Joshy Joseph & Craig Fellenstein, Pearson education, 2004
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. A Networking Approach to Grid Computing, D.Minoli, Wiley & sons.
2. Grid Computing: A Practical Guide to Technology and Applications, A.Abbas, Firewall
Media.
3. Java Network Programming, E.R.Harold, 2nd edition, O'Reilly, SPD.
4. Distributed Systems, Concepts and Design, 3rd edition, GCoulouris, J.Dollimore and Tim
Kindbirg, Pearson Education.
126
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-I 3 1 3
(R11ITD1123) INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SYSTEMS
Course Objectives:
1. Study fundamentals of DBMS, Data warehouse and Digital libraries
2. Learn various preprocessing techniques and searching and indexing
approaches in text mining
3. Know various clustering approaches and study different similarity measures
and different cognitive approaches used in text retrieval systems
4. Know about query languages and online IR system
Course Outcomes:
1. Distinguish classical information retrieval models, identifying their
principles, document models and measures used for evaluating similarity
and retrieval systems.
2. Recognize the Boolean Model, Vector Space Model, and Probabilistic
Model.
3. Clearly separate the indexing and search modules in information
retrieval tools
4. Create an appropriate document model for a document collection and a
retrieval task, and specify automatic methods.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 2 1
Information 1
CO-
Retrieval 1 2 2 2 1
2
Systems
CO-
1 2 2 1 2
3
CO-
2 2 2 2 2 1 2 2
4
UNIT – I
127
Introduction: Definition, Objectives, Functional Overview, Relationship to DBMS, Digital
libraries and Data Warehouses. Information Retrieval System Capabilities, Search, Browse,
Miscellaneous.
UNIT – II
Cataloging and Indexing: Objectives, Indexing Process, Automatic Indexing, Information
Extraction. Data Structures: Introduction, Stemming Algorithms, Inverted file structures, N-gram
data structure, PAT data structure, Signature file structure, Hypertext data structure. Automatic
Indexing: Classes of automatic indexing, Statistical indexing, Natural language, Concept
indexing, Hypertext linkages.
UNIT – III
Document and Term Clustering: Introduction, Thesaurus generation, Item clustering,
Hierarchy of clusters. User Search Techniques: Search statements and binding, Similarity
measures and ranking, Relevance feedback, Selective dissemination of information search,
weighted searches of Boolean systems, Searching the Internet and hypertext.
UNIT – I V
Information Visualization: Introduction, Cognition and perception, Information visualization
technologies. Text Search Algorithms: Introduction, Software text search algorithms, Hardware
text search systems. Information System Evaluation: Introduction, Measures used in system
evaluation, Measurement example – TREC results.
UNIT – V
Multimedia Information Retrieval, Models and Languages, Data Modeling, Query Languages,
Indexing and Searching. Libraries and Bibliographical systems, online IR system, OPACs,
Digital Libraries.
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Information storage and retrieval systems Theory and Implementation by Kowalski,
Gerald, Mark T Maybury, springer.
2. Modern Information Retrieval By Ricardo Baeza-Yates, Pearson Education, 2007.
FREFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Information Retrieval: Algorithms and Heuristics By David A Grossman and Ophir
Frider, 2nd Edition, Springer.
2. Information Retrieval Data Structures and Algorithms,Frakes, W.B., Ricardo Baeza-
Yates: Prentice Hall, 1992.
3. Modern Information Retrieval by Yates Pearson Education.
4. Information Storage & Retrieval by Robert Korfhage – John Wiley & Sons
128
5. Natural Language Processing and Information Retrieval, T.Siddiqui and U.S.Tiwary,
Oxford University Press.
129
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11CSE1204) OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. Understand basic principles of object-oriented program design using Java.
2. Understand the basic and some advanced issues related to writing classes and
methods such as data, visibility, scope, method parameters, object references,
and nested classes.
3. Understand the basic ideas behind class hierarchies, polymorphism, and
programming to interfaces.
4. Get exposure to exceptions and basic I/O streams.
5. Develop solid Java programming skills and the ability to put in practice the
acquired knowledge and understanding of the Java language and object-oriented
design in relatively simple case studies.
Course Outcomes:
1. Be able to understand better the object-oriented approach in
programming. Students should be able to analyze and design a computer
program to solve real world problems based on object-oriented
principles.
2. Be able to write computer programs to solve real world problems in Java
3. To learn and appreciate the importance and merits of proper comments
in source code and API documentations
4. Be able to write simple GUI interfaces for a computer program to
interact with users, and to understand the event-based GUI handling
principles.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO- 2 2 1 1 1 1
Object Oriented 1
Programming CO- 2 2 1 1
2
Laboratory
CO- 1 2 2 1 2 1 1
3
CO- 1 2 2 1 2 2 1 1 2 2
4
130
1. Write a java program to print all the twin primes below 1000.
(A twin prime is a prime number that differs from another
prime number by two. (3, 5), (5, 7), (11, 13), (17, 19), (29,
31), (41, 43), ... (821, 823), etc. .
2. Write a java program to implement matrix multiplication. (Take the input from
keyboard).
3. Write a Java program for sorting a given list of names in ascending order.
4. The Fibonacci sequence is defined by the following rule. The first two values in the
sequence are 1 and 1. Every subsequent value is the run of the two values
preceding it. Write a Java program that uses both recursive and non recursive
functions to print the nth value in the Fibonacci sequence.
5. Write a Java program that prompts the user for an integer and then prints out all
prime numbers up to that integer.
6. Write a Java program that checks whether a given string is a palindrome or not. Ex:
MALAYALAM is a palindrome.
7. Write a Java program that prints all real solutions to the quadratic equation ax2 + bx
+ c = 0. Read in a, b, c and use the quadratic formula. If the discriminant b2 -4ac is
negative, display a message stating that there are no real solutions.
8. Write a java program using constructor overloading.
9. Write a java program using variable length arguments
10. Write a java program using inner classes.
11. Write a java program using dynamic method dispatch.
12. Write a Java program that illustrates how run time polymorphism is achieved.
13. Write a java program that illustrates the following
a) Creation of simple package.
b) Accessing a package.
c) Implementing interfaces.
14. Write a java program that illustrates the following
a) Handling predefined exceptions
b) Handling user defined exceptions
15. Write a Java program for creating multiple threads
a) Using Thread class
b) Using Runnable interface
16. Write a Java program for creating multiple threads. The main method sleeps for 10
seconds at the end of which all the threads should be terminated.
17. Write a Java program that correctly implements producer consumer problem using
the concept of inter thread communication.
131
18. Write a Java program that implements a simple client/server application. The client
sends data to a server. The server receives the data, uses it to produce a result, and
then sends the result back to the client. The client displays the result on the console.
For ex: The client sends a Celsius value, and the result produced by the server is the
Fahrenheit value.
19. Write a Java program that reads on file name from the user then displays information
about whether the file exists, whether the file is readable, whether the file is writable,
the contents of file and the length of the file in bytes.
20. Write a Java program that: (Use classes and objects)
a) Implements stack ADT.
b) Converts infix expression into Prefix form.
21. Write an applet that displays a simple message.
22. Write a java program for passing parameters to applets
23. Write a Java program that works as a simple calculator. Use a grid layout to arrange
buttons for the Digits and for the + - * % operations. Add a text field to display the
result.
24. Write a Java program for handling mouse and keyboard events.
25. Write a Java program for handling menu events.
TEXT BOOKS
1 The Complete Reference Java J2SE, Herbert Schildt , 5th Edition, TMH.
2. Core Java 2 Volume I Fundamentals,Cay S.Horstmann, Gary Cornell - 5th Edn. PHI,2000.
3. The Java Programming Language, K. Arnold and J. Gosling -– Second Edition, Addison
Wesley, 1996.
132
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11ECE1204) MICROPROCESSORS AND MICROCONTROLLERS LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. To program 8086 microprocessor using assembly language
2. To interface various peripherals to 8086
Course Outcomes:
1. To apply the concepts in the design of microprocessor based systems in
real time applications
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
Microprocessors PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
and a b c d e f g h i j k l
Microcontrollers CO-
2 2 2 2 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1
Laboratory 1
I. Microprocessor 8086 & Interfacing:
1. Introduction to MASM/TASM.
2. Arithmetic operation – Multi byte Addition and Subtraction, Multiplication and Division –
Signed and unsigned Arithmetic operation, ASCII – arithmetic operation.
3. Logic operations – Shift and rotate – Converting packed BCD to unpacked BCD, BCD to
ASCII conversion.
4. By using string operation and Instruction prefix: Move Block, Reverse string, Sorting,
Inserting, Deleting, Length of the string, String comparison.
5. 8255 : Interface keyboard
6. 8255 : Interface Display
7.Serial communication between 8086 processors and PC through 8251.
133
II. Microcontroller 8051 & Interfacing:
1. Programming using arithmetic, logical and Bit manipulation instructions of 8051
2. Reading and Writing on a parallel port.
3. Timer in different modes
4. Serial communication between 8051 and PC
5. Interrupt programming
6. LCD Interfacing
7. Keyboard Interfacing
8. ADC Interfacing
9. DAC Interfacing
10. stepper motor Interfacing
11. DC motor Interfacing
12. Sensor Interfacing and signal conditioning
(At least 5 interfacing experiments must be completed in addition to
programming experiments from part-II)
134
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11HAS1204) ADVANCED ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS
LABORATORY
Course objectives:
1. Enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content to write
business letters, resume, SOP, Proposals and Technical Reports for
academics as well as for workplace
2. Enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific
target audience
3. Groom students to speak accurately and fluently and prepare them for real
world activities through behavioral skills.
4. Train students in soft skills through role play and group discussion to improve
their EQ.
Course Outcomes:
1. Summarize and synthesize information and produce technical writing
that is required in academics as well as in the engineering profession
2. write covering letters, resume, SOP, Project Proposals and Technical
Reports
3. speak fluently and address a large group of audience and participate in
debates and discussions.
4. negotiate terms, manage complex situations through interpersonal skills,
persuade people and make quick decisions.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
Advanced
CO-
English 2 2 2
1
Language CO-
2 2 2
Communication 2
Skills CO-
2 2 2
3
Laboratory
CO-
2 2 2
4
Introduction
135
This course aims to offer students a practical approach to Technical Writing, and provide a
relevant, contemporary and authoritative introduction to the dynamic field of technical
communication that prepares them for Workplace Communication. Each unit in the syllabus is
devised so as to include a writing component as well as an oral component.
The objectives of this course are to
i) expose students to workplace writing
ii) initiate them into the Process of Technical Communication
iii) to enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content
iv) enable students to produce documents reflecting different types of technical
communication such as Abstracts, Proposals and Technical Reports through
ample practice
v) enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific
target audience
vi) groom students in behavioral skills
Methodology
Writing Component
A Process- Genre methodology will be used in teaching the technical genres. This method
would enable students to understand the use of particular lexico-grammatical patterns required
of in the context of technical writing. They would learn to use language to express the particular
communicative intent that is required of in the context of writing these genres.
Oral Communication Component
The objective of including Oral Communication is to impart behavioral skills and prepare
students to speak to a large group or team, keeping in mind the audience, context and purpose
of communication. This Oral Communication component must enable students to speak in an
organized and mature way, without any inhibitions. They will be groomed to relate their speech
to their audience.
Objectives of Oral Communication Component
i) equip students with Behavioral skills
ii) prepare them for Oral presentations, and Group Discussions
136
iii) equip them with Interview skills
Syllabus Outline
Unit I
1. Applications and Covering letters
2. Resume Writing
3. Oral Communication :Self Introduction
Unit II
1. Introduction to Technical Writing
 Defining Technical Writing
 Distinguishing it from other types of writing
 Determining audience, purpose and context
2. Summarizing and Synthesizing Information
3. Behavioral Skills and Personality Development
a) Building a Positive Attitude, Building a Positive Personality, Motivation, Goal Setting &
Values &
Vision
b) Problem Solving and Decision Making; Negotiation Skills through Role Play
c) Team Building and Leadership Abilities
Unit III
1. Verbal Ability : Language, Reasoning Skills, Analytical Ability, Reading and Listening Skills
2. Oral Communication: Presentation Skills (Oral and Visual)
Unit IV
1. Writing Research Abstracts
2. Oral Communication: Group Discussions
Unit V.
1. Writing Project Proposals
2. Writing Project Reports
3. Oral Communication: Interview Skills
REQUIRED TEXT BOOKS AND MATERIALS
137
1. Technical Writing: Process and Product by Sharon J. Gerson and Steven M. Gerson
(1999); Publisher: Prentice Hall.
2. Effective Technical Communication by Ashraf Rizvi, M., (2005); Publisher: Tata Mc
Graw Hill.
3. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical Communication:
A Reader-Centered Approach (5th ed.) (pp. 457-473). Boston: Heinle.
REFERENCES
1. Technical Communication by Rebecca E. Burnett, 5th edition (2001); Publisher:
Thomson/Wadsworth
2. Technical Communication: A Practical Approach (7th ed.) by William S. Pfeiffer;
Publisher: Person education
3. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies by Mike Markel (2006-2007);
Publisher: Bedford/ St. Martins.
4. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Three Types of Special Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's
Technical Communication: A Reader-Centered Approach (5th ed..) ( (pp. 474-513).
Boston:Heinle.
5. Bolter, Jay David (2001), “The Late Age of Print” in Robert P. Yagelski's Literacies
and Technologies: A Reader for Contemporary Writers (135-145); Publisher:
Longman.
6. Brandt, Deborah. (1998) Sponsors of literacy. College Composition and
Communication 49.2, 165-185.
7. Burnett, Rebecca, E. (2001) “Locating and Recording Information” in Rebecca E.
Burnett's Technical Communication (pp. 164-195).
8. Johnson-Sheehan, Richard (2007). “Starting Your Career” in Richard Johnson-
Sheehan's Technical Communication Today (2nd ed.) (pp. 388-402). New York:
Longman.
9. Business Correspondence and Report Writing by R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan, Third
Edition (2002); Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
10. Technical Communication: Principles and Practices by M. Raman and S. Sharma
(Indian edition; 2004); Publisher: Oxford University Press.
138
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11CSE1113) COMPUTER NETWORKS
Course Objectives:
1. Analyze existing network protocols and networks.
2. Understand the meaning and power of a layered architectural model
3. Able to understand how to preserve the integrity of data communication on
network.
4. Remember the security and privacy issues that relate to computer networks.
Course Outcomes:
1. Understand fundamental underlying principles of computer networking.
2. Understand and building the skills of sub- netting and routing
mechanisms.
3. Analyze, specify and design the topological and routing strategies for an
IP based
4. Networking infrastructure and Analyze the hardware, software,
components of a network and the interrelations.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
1 2 1 2
1
Computer CO-
2 1 2 1
Networks 2
CO-
1 2 1 2
3
CO-
2 1 2 1
4
UNIT – I
Introduction to networks, internet, protocols and standards, the OSI Model, Layers in OSI
model, TCP/IP suite, Addressing, Analog and Digital signals.
Physical layer: Digital transmission, multiplexing, transmission media, circuit switched
networks, Datagram networks, virtual circuit networks, switch and Telephone networks.
UNIT – II
139
Data link layer: Introduction, Block coding, cyclic codes, checksum, framing, flow and error
control, Noiseless channels, noisy channels, HDLC, point to point protocols.
Medium Access sub layer: Random access, controlled access, channelization.
UNIT – III
IEEE standards, Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Giga-Bit Ethernet, wireless LANS.
Connecting LANS , backbone networks and virtual LANS, Wireless WANS, SONET, Frame
relay and ATM.
UNIT – IV
Network layer: Logical addressing, internetworking, tunneling, address mapping, ICMP, IGMP,
forwarding, Uni-cast routing protocols, multicast routing protocols.
UNIT – V
Transport Layer: Process to process delivery, UDP and TCP protocols, SCTP, Data traffic,
congestion, congestion control, Qos, integrated services, differentiated services,QoS in
switched networks.
Application Layer: Domain name space, DNS in internet, electronic mail, FTP, WWW, HTTP,
SNMP, multi-media, network security.
TEXT BOOKS :
1. Data Communications and Networking – Behrouz A. Forouzan, Fourth Edition
TMH,2006.
2. Computer Networks — Andrew S Tanenbaum, 4th Edition. Pearson Education/PHI.
REFERENCES :
1. Data communications and computer Networks, P.C .Gupta, PHI.
2. An Engineering Approach to Computer Networks-S.Keshav, 2nd Edition, Pearson
Education.
3. Understanding communications and Networks, 3rd Edition, W.A. Shay, Cengage
Learning.
4. Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach Featuring the Internet. James F.
Kurose & Keith W. Ross,3rd Edition, Pearson Education.
140
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11CSE1123) DATA WAREHOUSING AND DATA MINING
Course Objectives:
1. Understand the importance of Business Intelligence and the basic concepts
of digital data
2. Understand the importance of data warehousing in business intelligence
applications
3. Apply the ETL process using Pentaho data integration tool.
4. Differentiate the ER data model and multidimensional data model.
5. Understand the significance of a dashboard and also differentiate balanced
scorecard and enterprise dashboard.
Course Outcomes:
1. Apply database analysis and design techniques to the concept of Data
Warehousing.
2. Construct a data model for a case sample Data Warehouse project.
3. List and describe the core components of a Data Mart.
4. Summarize the rational and key benefits of using Data Marts and
Construct a data model representing a Data Mart strategy and Explain
the concept of Data Mining and List and describe the core components
of a Data Mining initiative.
5. Summarize the tools and approaches used in support of Data Mining and
Analyze sample data and identify correlations. To introduce advanced
topics in data mining, applications and trends in data mining
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 2 1
Data 1
CO-
Warehousing 2 2 1
2
and Data Mining
CO-
2
3
CO-
2 2 2 1
4
CO-
2 2 1
5
141
UNIT I:
Introduction: Fundamentals of data mining, KDD process, Data Mining Functionalities,
Classification of Data Mining systems, Data Mining Task primitives, Integration of a Data
mining System with a Database or a Data warehouse systems, Major issues in Data Mining.
Data Preprocessing: Needs for Preprocessing the Data, Data Cleaning, Data Integration and
Transformation, Data Reduction, Discretization and Concept Hierarchy Generation.
UNIT II:
Data Warehouse and OLAP Technology for Data Mining: Data Warehouse,
Multidimensional Data Model, Data Warehouse Architecture, Data Warehouse
Implementation, From Data Warehousing to Data Mining.
Data Cube computation and Data Generalization: Efficient Methods for Data Cube
Computation, Further Development of data cube and OLAP Technology, Characterization and
Discrimination: Attribute-Oriented Induction.
UNIT – III
Mining Frequent, Associations and Correlations: Basic Concepts, Frequent Itemset mining
methods, Mining Multilevel Association Rules from Transaction Databases, Mining
Multidimensional Association Rules from Relational Databases and Data Warehouses, From
Association Mining to Correlation Analysis, Constraint-Based Association Mining.
UNIT – IV
Classification and Prediction: Issues Regarding Classification and Prediction, Classification
by Decision Tree Induction, Bayesian Classification, Classification by Backpropagation,
Classification Based on Concepts from Association Rule Mining, Other Classification Methods,
Prediction, Classifier Accuracy.
UNIT – V
Cluster Analysis Introduction: Types of Data in Cluster Analysis, A Categorization of Major
Clustering Methods, Partitioning Methods, Density-Based Methods, Grid-Based Methods,
Model-Based Clustering Methods, Outlier Analysis.
Mining Complex Types of Data: Mining Spatial Databases, Mining Multimedia Databases,
Mining Time-Series and Sequence Data, Mining Text Databases, Mining the World Wide Web.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Data mining: Concepts and Techniques, Jiawei Han and Micheline Kamber, 2nd
Edition, Elsevier, 2006.
2. Introduction to Data Mining – Pang – Ning Tan, Michael Steinbach and Vipin Kumar,
Pearson Education.
REFERENCES
142
1. Data Mining Introductory and advanced topics –MARGARET H DUNHAM,
PEARSON EDUCATION
2. Data Mining Techniques – ARUN K PUJARI,2nd Edition University Press.
3. Data Warehousing in the Real World – SAM ANAHORY & DENNIS MURRAY.
Pearson Edn Asia.
4. Data Warehousing Fundamentals – Paulraj Ponnaiah wiley student edition.
143
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – IISem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11ITD1120) LINUX PROGRAMMING
Course Objectives:
1. Understand the fundamentals of shell scripting/Programming and Linux system
Administration.
2. Learn the basic principles of file system architecture to organize the file system.
3. Apply the core concept of Processes and implement in the linux Environment by
handling signals.
4. Implementing Inter-Process communication techniques in linux environment and
analyze their differences.
5. Learn and design Client-server applications using Connection Oriented(TCP) and
Connection-Less Protocols(UDP).
Course Outcomes:
1. Understand the fundamentals of shell scripting/Programming and Linux
system Administration.
2. Learn the basic principles of file system architecture to organize the file
system.
3. Apply the core concept of Processes and implement in the Linux
Environment by handling signals.
4. Implementing Inter-Process communication techniques in Linux
environment and analyze their differences.
5. Learn and design Client-server applications using Connection
Oriented(TCP) and Connection-Less Protocols(UDP).
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 1 1
1
Linux CO-
1 1
Programming 2
CO-
2 2 1
3
CO-
1 2 2 1
4
144
CO-
2 2 2 2
5
UNIT I
Linux Utilities-File handling utilities, Security by file permissions, Process utilities, Disk
utilities, Networking commands, Filters, Text processing utilities and Backup utilities,
Working with the Bourne again shell(bash): Introduction, shell responsibilities, pipes and input
Redirection, output redirection, here documents, running a shell script, the shell as a
programming language, shell meta characters, file name substitution, shell variables, command
substitution, shell commands, the environment, quoting, test command, control structures,
arithmetic in shell, shell script examples, interrupt processing, functions, debugging shell
scripts.
UNIT II
Linux Files: File Concept, File System Structure, nodes, File types, the standard I/O and
formatted I/O, stream errors, , System calls, library functions, file descriptors, Directory
management – Directory file APIs, Symbolic links and hard links.
UNIT III
Linux Process – Process concept, process attributes, process control - process creation,
waiting for a process, process termination, zombie process, orphan process, Process APIs.
Signals – Introduction to signals, Signal generation and handling, kill, sleep functions.
UNIT IV
Interprocess Communication: Introduction to IPC, pipes, FIFOs, Introduction to three types
of IPC (Linux)-message queues, semaphores and shared memory. , Linux APIs for messages,
client/server example. Semaphores-, Linux APIs for semaphores, file locking with semaphores.
Shared Memory-, Linux APIs for shared memory, semaphore and shared memory example.
UNIT V
Sockets: Introduction to Linux Sockets, Socket system calls for connection oriented protocol
and connectionless protocol, example-client/server programs.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Unix System Programming using C++, T.Chan, PHI.
2. Unix Concepts and Applications, 4th Edition, Sumitabha Das, TMH,2006.
3. Unix Network Programming ,W.R.Stevens,PHI.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Unix and Shell programming, B.A.Forouzan and R.F.Gilberg, Cengage Learning
2. A practical guide to Linux , Mark G.Sobell.
145
th
3. Beginning Linux Programming, 4 Edition, N.Matthew, R.Stones,Wrox, Wiley India
Edition,-2008.
4. Linux System Programming, Robert Love, O’Reilly, SPD-2007.
146
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11CSE1107) COMPILER DESIGN
Course Objectives:
1. Demonstrate the various phases of a compiler and its construction tools
2. Examine the process of different parses along with SDD
3. Describe intermediate code and code optimizations techniques with data
flow analysis
4. Understand machine independent and dependent code generation schemes.
Course Outcomes:
1. Know the major phases of compilation, particularly lexical analysis,
parsing, semantic analysis and code generation.
2. Understand the differences types of parsing techniques and syntax
directed translations.
3. Understand the code optimization methods..
4. Apply the optimization techniques to programming languages and Know
the language features and natural language representations.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
1 1 2 1 2 2 2
1
Compiler CO-
2 1 1 1 2 2 2 2
Design 2
CO-
2 1 1 2 1
3
CO-
2 1 1 2 1 2 2 2 2
4
UNIT–I
Overview of Compilation: Phases of Compilation – Lexical Analysis, Regular Grammar and
regular expression for common programming language features, pass and Phases of
translation, interpretation, bootstrapping, data structures in compilation – LEX lexical analyzer
147
generator.
UNIT–II
Top down Parsing: Context free grammars, Top down parsing – Backtracking, LL (1),
recursive descent parsing, Predictive parsing, Preprocessing steps required for predictive
parsing.
Bottom up parsing: Shift Reduce parsing, LR and LALR parsing, Error recovery in parsing ,
handling ambiguous grammar, YACC – automatic parser generator.
UNIT–III
Semantic analysis: Intermediate forms of source Programs – abstract syntax tree, polish
notation and three address codes. Attributed grammars, Syntax directed translation,
Conversion of popular Programming languages language Constructs into Intermediate code
forms, Type checker.
Symbol Tables: Symbol table format, organization for block structures languages, hashing,
tree structures representation of scope information. Block structures and non block structure
storage allocation: static, Runtime stack and heap storage allocation, storage allocation for
arrays, strings and records.
UNIT–IV
Code optimization: Consideration for Optimization, Scope of Optimization, local optimization,
loop optimization, frequency reduction, folding, DAG representation.
Data flow analysis: Flow graph, data flow equation, global optimization, redundant sub
expression elimination, Induction variable elements, Live variable analysis, Copy propagation.
UNIT–V
Object code generation: Object code forms, machine dependent code optimization, register
allocation and assignment generic code generation algorithms, DAG for register allocation.
Systems programming: Language processors, data structures for language processing,
assemblers,maross and macro processing ,linkers ,loaders .
TEXTBOOKS
1. Principles of compiler design -A.V. Aho . J.D.Ullman; Pearson Education.
2. Modern Compiler Implementation in C- Andrew N. Appel, Cambridge University Press.
REFERENCES
1. lex &yacc – John R. Levine, Tony Mason, Doug Brown, O’reilly
2. Modern Compiler Design- Dick Grune, Henry E. Bal, Cariel T. H. Jacobs,Wiley dreamtech.
148
3. Engineering a Compiler-Cooper & Linda, Elsevier.
4. Compiler Construction, Louden, Thomson.
149
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11CSE1121) OBJECT ORIENTED ANALYSIS AND DESIGN (USING UML)
Course Objectives:
At the end of the course, student will be able to
1. Identify the need and process of modeling a software intensive system using
the artifacts Unified Modeling Language
2. Understand the CRC (structural) approach for a given case study
3. Identify the various behaviours that supports the CRC (structural) approach
4. Explore various diagrams with advanced behavioural elements that enables
the deployment of a model for a given case study
Course Outcomes:
1. Analyze the requirements through Use-Case View
2. Identify all structural and behavioral concepts of the entire system
3. Develop a model using UML concepts by different types of diagrams
like Use case diagram, Class Diagram, Sequence Diagram e.t.c….
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
Object Oriented CO- 2 2 1 2 1 2 1 2 1
1
Analysis and
CO-
Design 2 2 2 1 2 2 1 2 1 2 1
2
CO-
2 2 2 1 2 2 1 2 1 2 1
3
UNIT-I
Introduction to UML: Importance of modeling, principles of modeling, object oriented
modeling, conceptual model of the UML, Architecture, Software Development Life Cycle.
150
UNIT-II
Basic Structural Modeling: Classes, Relationships, Common mechanisms and
diagrams.Advanced Structural Modeling: Advanced classes, advanced relationships,
Interfaces, Types and Roles, Packages, Common modeling techniques.
UNIT-III
Class and Object Diagrams: Terms, concepts, modeling techniques for class and object
diagrams, Common modeling techniques.
Basic Behavioral Modeling-I: Interactions, Interaction diagrams, Common modeling techniques
UNIT-IV
Basic Behavioral Modeling-II: Use cases, Use case diagrams, Activity diagrams, Common
modeling techniques.Advanced Behavioral Modeling: Events and signals, state machines,
processes and Threads, time and space, state chart diagrams, Common modeling techniques.
UNIT-V
Architectural Modeling: Component, Deployment, Component diagrams, Deployment
diagrams, Common modeling techniques.
Case Studies
TEXT BOOKS
1. The Unified Modeling Language User Guide, Grady Booch, James Rumbaugh, Ivar
Jacobson: Pearson Education.
2. Hans-Erik Eriksson, Magnus Penker, Brian Lyons, David Fado: UML 2 Toolkit, WILEY-
Dreamtech India Pvt. Ltd.
REFERENCS
1. Fundamentals of Object Oriented Design in UML, Meilir Page-Jones: Pearson
Education.
2. Object Oriented Analysis & Design, Atul Kahate: The McGraw-Hill.\
3. Practical Object-Oriented Design with UML, Mark Priestley: TATA McGrawHill
4. Applying UML and Patterns: An introduction to Object – Oriented Analysis and Design
and Unified Process, Craig Larman, Pearson Education.
151
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11CSE1206) DATA MINING LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. To introduce students to the basic concepts and techniques of Data Mining.
2. Performing data preprocessing tasks for data mining in Weka
3. To perform classification on data sets using the Weka machine learning
toolkit.
4. Implement and apply basic algorithms for supervised and unsupervised
learning
5. To develop skills of using recent data mining software for solving practical
problems.
Course Outcomes:
1. At the end of the semester, successful students will have fundamental
understanding of data mining algorithms and their applications.
2. Consequently they will have necessary skills to effectively apply data
mining techniques to solve real business problems.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
Data Mining CO-
2 2 1
Laboratory 1
CO-
2 2 1
2
WEEK 1:
1. Introduction to QTP
Creating various GUI check points in QTP to verify the functionality testing of test build
Creating various Bitmap check points in QTP to verify the functionality testing of test build
WEEK 2:
2. Creating various data base check points in QTP to verify the functionality testing of test
build.
WEEK 3:
3. To conduct DDT in QTP on test build
152
To conduct batch testing in QTP on test build.
]Week 4:
4. To know the various functions available in QTP, using function generator.
User defined function in QTP.
Creating a compiled module
Week 5:
5. Synchronization of QTP & test build.
Exception handling in QTP
Executing a prepared query in QTP
Week 6:
6. Creating various Test Cases for: ATM operations
Creating a Test plan for: Automated library system
Creating a Test methodology for: Railway Reservation System
DMDW Lab
7. Introduction to the Weka machine learning toolkit – Part 1
8. Introduction to the Weka machine learning toolkit – Part 2
9. Classification using the Weka toolkit
10. Performing data preprocessing for data mining in Weka
11. Performing clustering in Weka
12. Association rule analysis in Weka
Week 7:
Title
Introduction to the Weka machine learning toolkit
Aim
To learn to use the Weak machine learning toolkit
Requirements
How do you load Weka?
1. What options are available on main panel?
2. What is the purpose of the the following in Weka:
1. The Explorer
2. The Knowledge Flow interface
3. The Experimenter
4. The command-line interface
3. Describe the arff file format.
4. Press the Explorer button on the main panel and load the weather dataset and answer
the following questions
1. How many instances are there in the dataset?
2. State the names of the attributes along with their types and values.
3. What is the class attribute?
153
4. In the histogram on the bottom-right, which attributes are plotted on the X,Y-
axes? How do you change the attributes plotted on the X,Y-axes?
5. How will you determine how many instances of each class are present in the data
6. What happens with the Visualize All button is pressed?
7. How will you view the instances in the dataset? How will you save the changes?
Week 8:
1. What is the purpose of the following in the Explorer Panel?
1. The Preprocess panel
1. What are the main sections of the Preprocess panel?
2. What are the primary sources of data in Weka?
2. The Classify panel
3. The Cluster panel
4. The Associate panel
5. The Select Attributes panel
6. The Visualize panel.
2. Load the weather dataset and perform the following tasks:
1. Use the unsupervised filter Remove With Values to remove all instances where
the
attribute ‘humidity’ has the value ‘high’?
2. Undo the effect of the filter.
3. Answer the following questions:
1. What is meant by filtering in Weka?
2. Which panel is used for filtering a dataset?
3. What are the two main types of filters in Weka?
4. What is the difference between the two types of filters? What is the difference
between and attribute filter and an instance filter?
3. Load the iris dataset and perform the following tasks:
1. Press the Visualize tab to view the Visualizer panel.
2. What is the purpose of the Visualizer?
3. Select one panel in the Visualizer and experiment with the buttons on the panel.
Week 9:
Title
Classification using the Weka toolkit
Aim
To perform classification on data sets using the Weka machine learning toolkit
Requirements
1. Load the ‘weather.nominal.arff’ dataset into Weka and run Id3 classification algorithm.
Answer the following questions
1. List the attributes of the given relation along with the type details
2. Create a table of the weather.nominal.arff data
3. Study the classifier output and answer the following questions
154
1. Draw the decision tree generated by the classifier
2. Compute the entropy values for each of the attributes
3. What is the relationship between the attribute entropy values and the nodes of the
decision tree?
4. Draw the confusion matrix? What information does the confusion matrix provide?
5. Describe the following quantities:
1. TP Rate 2. FP Rate
3. Precision 4. Recall
Week 10:
Title
Performing data preprocessing tasks for data mining in Weka
Aim
To learn how to use various data preprocessing methods as a part of the data mining
Requirements
Application of Discretization Filters
1. Perform the following tasks
1. Load the 'sick.arff' dataset
2. How many instances does this dataset have?
3. How many attributes does it have?
4. Which is the class attribute and what are the characteristics of this attribute?
5. How many attributes are numeric? What are the attribute indexes of the numeric
attributes?
6. Apply the Naive Bayes classifier. What is the accuracy of the classifier?
2. Perform the following tasks:
1. Load the 'sick.arff' dataset.
2. Apply the supervised discretization filter.
3. What is the effect of this filter on the attributes?
4. How many distinct ranges have been created for each attribute?
5. Undo the filter applied in the previous step.
6. Apply the unsupervised discretization filter. Do this twice:
1. In this step, set 'bins'=5
2. In this step, set 'bins'=10
3. What is the effect of the unsupervised filter filter on the datset?
7. Run the the Naive Bayes classifier after apply the following filters
1. Unsupervised discretized with 'bins'=5
2. Unsupervised discretized with 'bins'=10
3. Unsupervised discretized with 'bins''=20.
8. Compare the accuracy of the following cases
1. Naive Bayes without discretization filters
2. Naive Bayes with a supervised discretization filter
3. Naive Bayes with an unsupervised discretization filter with different values for the
'bins' attributes.
155
Week 11:
Title
Performing clustering using the data mining toolkit
Aim
To learn to use clustering techniques
Requirements
1. Perform the following tasks:
1. Load the ‘bank.arff’ data set in Weka.
2. Write down the following details regarding the attributes:
1. names
2. types
3. values.
3. Run the Simple K-Means clustering algorithm on the dataset
1. How many clusters are created?
2. What are the number of instances and percentage figures in each cluster?
3. What is the number of iterations that were required?
4. What is the sum of squared errors? What does it represent?
5. Tabulate the characteristics of the centroid of each cluster.
6. Visualize the results of this clustering (let the X-axis represent the cluster name,
and
the Y-axis represent the instance number)
1. Is there a significant variation in age between clusters?
2. Which clusters are predominated by males and which clusters are
predominated by
females?
3. What can be said about the values of the region attribute in each cluster?
4. What can be said about the variation of income between clusters?
5. Which clusters are dominated by married people and which clusters are
dominated
by unmarried people?
6. How do the clusters differ with respect to the number of children?
7. Which cluster has the highest number of people with cars?
8. Which clusters are predominated by people with savings accounts?
9. What can be said about the variation of current accounts between clusters?
10. Which clusters comprise mostly of people who buy the PEP product and which
ones are comprised of people who do not buy the PEP product?
4. Run the SimpleKMeans algorithm for values of K (no. of clusters) ranging from 1 to 12.
Tabulate the sum of squared errors for each run. What do you observe about the trend of
the sum of squared errors?
5. For the run with K=12, answer the following questions:
1. Is there a significant variation in age between clusters?
156
2. Which clusters are predominated by males and which clusters are predominated
by
females?
3. How do the clusters differ with respect to the number of children?
4. Which clusters comprise of people who buy the PEP product and which ones are
comprised of people who do not buy the PEP product?
5. Do you see any differences in your ability to evaluate the characteristics of
clusters generated for K=6 versus K=12? Why does this difference arise?
Week 12:
Title
Using Weka to determine Association rules
Aim
To learn to use Association algorithms on datasets
Requirements
1. Perform the following tasks
1. Define the following terms
1. item and item set
2. Association
3. Association rule
4. Support of an association rule
5. Confidence of an association rule
6. Large item set
7. Association rule problem
2. What is the purpose of the Apriori Algorithm
2. Perform the following tasks:
1. Load the ‘vote.arff’ dataset
2. Apply the Apriori association rule
3. What is the support threshold used? What is the confidence threshold used?
4. Write down the top 6 rules along with the support and confidence values.
5. What does the figure to the left of the arrow in the association rule represent?
6. What does the figure to the right of the arrow in the association rule represent?
7. For rule 8, verify that numerical values used for computation of support and confidence
are
in accordance with the data by using the Preprocess panel. Then compute the support
and
confidence values. Are they above the threshold values?
3. Perform the following tasks:
1. Load the dataset ‘weather.nominal.arff’.
2. Apply the Apriori association rule
1. Consider the rule “temperature=hot ==> humidity=normal.” Compute the
support and confidence for this rule.
2. Consider the rule “temperature=hot humidity=high ==> windy=TRUE.”
Consider the support and confidence for this rule.
157
3. Is it possible to have a rule like the following rule:
“outlook=sunny temperature=cool” ==> humidity=normal play=yes
4. Perform the following tasks:
1. Load the bank-data.csv file.
2. Apply the Apriori association rule algorithm. What is the result? Why?
3. Apply the supervised discretization filter to the age and income attributes.
4. Run the Apriori rule algorithm
5. List the rules that were generated.
158
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11ITD1207) LINUX PROGRAMMING LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. Understand basic principles of Linux programming.
2. Learn the fundamentals of shell scripting/programming.
3. Familiarize students with basic linux administration.
4. Implement the Linux IPC Mechanism and Design Client-Server Applications
using TCP/UDP protocols
Course Outcomes:
1. Understand the how to work with Linux commands
2. Understand the how to write Shell Scrips
3. Learn various System Calls in linux .
4. Become familiar with Write shell scripts to automate various tasks
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 1 1 1
1
Data Mining CO-
1 1 1
Laboratory 2
CO-
2 2 1 1
3
CO-
1 2 2 1
4
Note: Use Bash for Shell scripts.
Week 1
1. Write a shell script that accepts a file name, starting and ending line numbers as arguments
and displays all the lines between the given line numbers.
2. Write a shell script that deletes all lines containing a specified word in one or more files
supplied as arguments to it.
3. Write a shell script that displays a list of all the files in the current directory to which the user
has read, write and execute permissions.
Week 2
159
4. Write a shell script that receives any number of file names as arguments checks if every
argument supplied is a file or a directory and reports accordingly. Whenever the argument is a
file, the number of lines on it is also reported.
5. Write a shell script that accepts a list of file names as its arguments, counts and reports the
occurrence of each word that is present in the first argument file on other argument files.
6. Write a shell script to list all of the directory files in a directory.
Week 3
7. Write a shell script to find factorial of a given integer.
8. Write an awk script to count the number of lines in a file that do not contain vowels.
9. Write an awk script to find the number of characters, words and lines in a file.
Week 4
10. Write a c program that makes a copy of a file using standard I/O and system calls.
11. Implement in C the following Unix commands using System calls
A . cat B. ls C. mv
12. Write a program that takes one or more file/directory names as command line input and
reports the following information on the file.
A. File type. B. Number of links.
C. Time of last access. D. Read, Write and Execute permissions.
Week 5
13. Write a C program to emulate the Unix ls –l command.
14.Write a C program to list for every file in a directory, its inode number and file name.
15. Write a C program that demonstrates redirection of standard output to a file.Ex: ls > f1.
Week 6
16. Write a C program to create a child process and allow the parent to display “parent” and
the child to display “child” on the screen.
17. Write a C program to create a Zombie process.
18. Write a C program that illustrates how an orphan is created.
Week 7
19. Write a C program that illustrates how to execute two commands concurrently with a
command pipe. Ex:- ls –l | sort
20. Implement the following forms of IPC. a)Pipes b)FIFO
Week 8
21. Implement Message Queue form of IPC.
22. Write a program to create an integer variable using shared memory concept and increment
the variable simultaneously by two processes. Use semaphores to avoid race conditions
Week 9
23. Design TCP iterative Client and server application to reverse the given input sentence
Week 10
24. Design a TCP concurrent server to convert a given text into upper case.
25. Design UDP Client and server application to reverse the given input sentence
Week 11
26. Write a program to implement file locking mechanisms using semaphores.
Week 12
160
27. Implement shared memory form of IPC.
161
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11CSE1205) OBJECT ORIENTED ANALYSIS AND COMPILER DESIGN LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. Provide the environment to learn the language translator importance
2. Help students understand the phases of compiler
3. Impart practical knowledge to write code to implement various methods
4. Make students learn the need of models in the software development
process and the basic review of object-oriented concepts will be given.
Course Outcomes:
1. Design and implement language processors in C/C++
2. Use tools (such as LEX and YACC) to automate parts of the
implementation process.
3. Analyse the requirements through Use-Case View
4. Identify all structural and behavioral concepts of the entire system and
Develop a model using UML concepts by different types of diagrams
like Usecase Diagram,Class Diagram,Sequence Diagram etc.,
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
Object Oriented
CO-
Analysis and 1 1 2 2 2 2 2
1
Design and CO-
1 1 2 2 2 2 2 2
Compiler 2
Design CO- 2 2 1 1 2 1 2
3
Laboratory
CO-
1 1 1 2 1 2 2 2
4
The student should take up the case studies of ATM system, Online Reservation System and
Model it in different views i.e. Use case view, logical view, component view, Deployment view.
Week 1
Design a Class Diagram for ATM system, Online Reservation System.
Week 2
Design a Use case Diagram for ATM system, Online Reservation System.
162
Week 3
Design a Sequence Diagram for ATM system, Online Reservation System.
Week 4
Design a Collaboration Diagram for ATM system, Online Reservation System.
Week 5
Design a Activity Diagram for ATM system, Online Reservation System.
Design a State Chart Diagram for ATM system, Online Reservation System.
Week 6
Design a Component Diagram for ATM system, Online Reservation System.
Design a Deployment Diagram for ATM system, Online Reservation System.
COMPILER DESIGN
Consider the following mini Language, a simple procedural high-level language, only operating
on
integer
data, with a syntax looking vaguely like a simple C crossed with Pascal. The syntax of the
language is
defined by the following BNF grammar:
<program> ::= <block>
<block> ::= { <variabledefinition> <slist> }
| { <slist> }
<variabledefinition> ::= int <vardeflist> ;
<vardeflist> ::= <vardec> | <vardec> , <vardeflist>
<vardec> ::= <identifier> | <identifier> [ <constant> ]
<slist> ::= <statement> | <statement> ; <slist>
<statement> ::= <assignment> | <ifstatement> | <whilestatement>
| <block> | <printstatement> | <empty>
<assignment> ::= <identifier> = <expression>
| <identifier> [ <expression> ] = <expression>
<ifstatement> ::= if <bexpression> then <slist> else <slist> endif
| if <bexpression> then <slist> endif
<whilestatement> ::= while <bexpression> do <slist> enddo
<printstatement> ::= print ( <expression> )
<expression> ::= <expression> <addingop> <term> | <term> | <addingop> <term>
<bexpression> ::= <expression> <relop> <expression>
<relop> ::= < | <= | == | >= | > | !=
<addingop> ::= + | -
163
<term> ::= <term> <multop> <factor> | <factor>
<multop> ::= * | /
<factor> ::= <constant> | <identifier> | <identifier> [ <expression>]
| ( <expression> )
<constant> ::= <digit> | <digit> <constant>
<identifier> ::= <identifier> <letterordigit> | <letter>
<letterordigit> ::= <letter> | <digit>
<letter> ::= a|b|c|d|e|f|g|h|i|j|k|l|m|n|o|p|q|r|s|t|u|v|w|x|y|z
<digit> ::= 0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|8|9
<empty> has the obvious meaning
Comments (zero or more characters enclosed between the standard C/Java-style comment
brackets /
*...*/) can be inserted. The language has rudimentary support for 1-dimensional arrays. The
declaration
int a[3] declares an array of three elements, referenced as a[0], a[1] and a[2]. Note also that
you should
worry about the scoping of names.
A simple program written in this language is:
{ int a[3],t1,t2;
t1=2;
a[0]=1; a[1]=2; a[t1]=3;
t2=-(a[2]+t1*6)/(a[2]-t1);
if t2>5 then
print(t2);
else {
int t3;
t3=99;
t2=-25;
print(-t1+t2*t3); /* this is a comment
on 2 lines */
} endif }
Experiments on week wise:
Week 7
Design a Lexical analyzer for the above language. The lexical analyzer should ignore
redundant spaces, tabs and newlines. It should also ignore comments. Although the syntax
164
specification states that identifiers can be arbitrarily long, you may restrict the length to some
reasonable value.
Week 8
Implement the lexical analyzer using JLex, flex or lex or other lexical analyzer generating tools.
Week 9
Design Predictive parser for the given language
Design LALR bottom up parser for the above language.
Week 10
Convert the BNF rules into Yacc form and Write code to generate abstract syntax tree.
Week 11
Write program to generate machine code from the abstract syntax tree generated by the parser
Week 12
Write a Yacc Program to construct a parse tree for the given grammar
Write a Lex program to construct a lexical analyzer
TEXT BOOKS
1. Principles of compiler design -A.V. Aho . J.D.Ullman; Pearson Education.
2. Modern Compiler Implementation in C- Andrew N. Appel, Cambridge University Press.
REFERENCES
1. lex &yacc – John R. Levine, Tony Mason, Doug Brown, O’reilly
2. Modern Compiler Design- Dick Grune, Henry E. Bal, Cariel T. H. Jacobs, Wiley dreamtech.
3. Engineering a Compiler-Cooper & Linda, Elsevier.
4. Compiler Construction, Louden, Thomson.
165
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11CSE1122) SOFTWARE TESTING METHODOLOGIES
Course Objectives:
1. An ability to design and conduct a software test process for a software testing
project and identify the needs of software test automation.
2. An ability understand and identify various software testing problems, and
solve these problems by designing and selecting software test models,
criteria, strategies, use software testing methods and modern software testing
tools for their testing projects and basic understanding and knowledge
of contemporary issues in software testing, such as component-based
software testing problems.
3. An ability to use various communication methods and skills to communicate
with their teammates to conduct their practice-oriented software testing
projects.
4. Analyze different approaches to software testing and quality assurance, and
select optimal solutions for different situations and projects.
Course Outcomes:
1. Apply fundamental knowledge of Testing in Real time scenarios.
2. Test a simple application.
3. Understand and Applying the Techniques in Software Development Life
cycle
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
Software CO- 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
1
Testing
CO-
Methodologies 1 2 2 1 2 1
2
CO-
1 2 2 2 1 1 1 1
3
UNIT I:
166
Introduction: Purpose of testing-Dichotomies-Software Testing Principles- Bugs, consequences of bugs,
Taxonomy of bugs -The Tester’s Role in a Software Development Organization-Black box testing and
white box testing- Defects -Cost of defects- Defect Classes- Defect Examples ,software testing life cycle.
UNIT II:
Flow graphs and Path testing: Basics concepts of path testing-predicates-path predicates
and achievable paths- path sensitizing- path instrumentation, application of path testing.
Transaction Flow Testing: Transaction flows- transaction flow testing techniques-
Dataflow testing: Basics of dataflow testing - strategies in dataflowtesting-application of data
flow testing.
UNIT III:
Test Case Design Strategies – Using Black Box Approach to Test Case Design - Random
Testing – Requirements based testing – Boundary Value Analysis –Equivalence Class
Partitioning– Compatibility testing – User documentation testing – Domain testing.
Alpha, Beta Tests – Usability and Accessibility testing – Configuration testing - Compatibility testing –
Testing the documentation.
UNIT IV:
Paths, Path products and Regular expressions: Path products & path expression- reduction
procedure- applications- regular expressions & flow anomaly detection.
Logic Based Testing: Overview decision tables-path expressions, k-v charts- State- State
Graphs and Transition testing: State graphs- good & bad stategraphs-statetesting
State, state graphs and transition testing: state graphs ,good and bad state graphs ,state
testing, testability tips
UNIT V:
Graph Matrices and applications: motivational over view ,matrix of graph, relations ,power of
matrix, node reduction algorithm .
People and organizational issues in testing – organization structures for testing teams – testing
services - Test Planning – Test Plan Components – Test Plan Attachments – Locating Test
Items – test management – test process- bug detection life cycle.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. “Software Testing – Principles and Practices”, Srinivasan Desikan and Gopalaswamy
Ramesh, Pearson education, 2006.
2 “Software Testing Techniques”, Boris Beizer, – 2nd Edition, Van Nostrand Reinhold, New
York, 1990
REFERENCES:
167
1. “ Software Testing”, Ron Patton, Second Edition, Sams Publishing, Pearson education,
2007
2. “Software Testing – Effective Methods, Tools and Techniques”, Renu Rajani, Pradeep
OakTata McGraw Hill, 2004.
3. “Software Testing in the Real World – Improving the Process”, Edward Kit Pearson
Education, 1995.
4. “Foundations of Software Testing – Fundamental algorithms and techniques”,Aditya P.
Mathur, Dorling Kindersley (India) Pvt. Ltd., Pearson Education, 2008.
168
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 3
(R11ITD1102) WEB TECHNOLOGIES
Course Objectives:
The main objectives are summarized as shown below:
1. Explain various fundamental concepts for developing websites and web
based applications.
2. To Know about technology for data transportation among incompatible
systems and applications
3. Write various programs to develop static and dynamic websites
4. To implement various frameworks for developing well architected web
applications
Course Outcomes:
1. Understand the concepts required for building web base technologies.
2. Write the programs for implementing websites and web applications.
3. Analyze the requirements of the customer and build web based
applications.
4. Optimize the applications by using various frameworks of web
technologies
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 2 1 2 2 2 2 1 2 2 2
1
Web CO-
2 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
Technologies 2
CO-
2 2 1 2 2 2 2 1 2 2 2
3
CO-
2 2 1 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 2
4
UNIT I
HTML Common tags- List, Tables, images, forms, Frames; Cascading Style sheets.
169
Introduction to Java Scripts, Objects in Java Script, Dynamic HTML with Java Script.
UNIT II
Introduction to XML: Document type definition, XML Schemas, Document Object model,
Presenting XML, Using XML Processors: DOM and SAX.
Java Beans: Introduction to Java Beans, Advantages of Java Beans, BDK Introspection, Using
Bound properties, Bean Info Interface, Constrained properties Persistence, Customizes, Java
Beans API, Introduction to EJB’s.
UNIT III
Web Servers and Servlets: Tomcat web server, Installing the Java Software Development Kit,
Tomcat Server & Testing Tomcat, Introduction to Servelets: Lifecycle of a Serverlet, JSDK, The
Servelet API, The javax.servelet Package, Reading Servelet parameters, Reading Initialization
parameters. The javax.servelet HTTP package, Handling Http Request & Responses, Using
Cookies-Session Tracking, Security Issues.
UNIT IV
Database Access: Database Programming using JDBC, JDBC drivers,Studying Javax.sql.*
package, Accessing a Database from a Servelet.
Introduction to JSP: The Problem with Servelet. The Anatomy of a JSP Page, JSP
Processing. JSP Application Design with MVC Setting Up and JSP Environment.
UNIT V
JSP Application Development: Generating Dynamic Content, Using Scripting Elements
Implicit JSP Objects, Conditional Processing – Displaying Values Using an Expression to Set
an Attribute, Declaring Variables and Methods Error Handling and Debugging Sharing Data
Between JSP pages, Requests, and Users Passing Control and Date between Pages –
Sharing Session and Application Data – Memory Usage Considerations, Accessing a Database
from a JSP page, Deploying JAVA Beans in a JSP Page, Introduction to struts framework.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Web Programming, building internet applications, Chris Bates 2nd edition, WILEY
Dreamtech (UNIT s 1, 2)
2. Core SERVLETS ANDJAVASERVER PAGES VOLUME 1: CORE TECHNOLOGIES
By Marty Hall and Larry Brown Pearson (UNITs 3,4,5)
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Programming world wide web-Sebesta,Pearson
170
2. Internet and World Wide Web – How to program by Dietel and Nieto PHI/Pearson
Education Asia.
3. Jakarta Struts Cookbook , Bill Siggelkow, S P D O’Reilly.
4. Java : The complete Reference, 7th Edition by Herbert Schildt. TMH.
171
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11CSE1124) VISUAL PROGRAMMING TECHNIQUES
Course objectives:
1. Implementing various applications using Visual C#.NET language
2. Develop various applications using Microsoft Visual Studio .NET IDE
environment.
3. Write various programs to develop static and dynamic websites using
ASP.NET
4. Building a good foundation for understanding and learning advanced
programming concepts, such as, object-oriented programming.
Course Outcomes:
5. Understand the fundamentals of visual programming
6. Be familiar with the essential techniques to build windows applications
using visual C# approach
7. Will be able to develop, test and debug programs in C# .NET using the
Microsoft Visual Studio .NET IDE environment.
8. Take advantages of the many new capabilities of building applications in
graphical environment
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO- 1 2 1 1 2 2 1 1
Visual 1
Programming CO- 1 2 2 1 1 1 2 2
2
Techniques
CO-
2 2 1 1 1 2 1 2
3
CO- 1 2 1 1 2 2 1 1
4
INTRODUCTION:
This course builds skills to develop console-based and windows-based applications using
VC#.NET. The course discusses the implementation of Object-oriented concepts using C#
language. In addition, this course introduces implementation of various programming concepts,
172
such as threads, file handling, delegates, attributes, and reflection using C# language. This
course also introduces GUI application development and database programming through
ADO.NET.
Furthermore, this course also provides an understanding to develop and deploy Web
applications using ASP.NET. This course covers adding and configuring server controls, and
master pages.
UNIT 1: Introduction to .NET
What is .NET, Why .NET, Advantages of .NET, Architecture of .NET, Introduction to CLR, CLR
architecture, Just-in-time compiler(JIT), Microsoft Intermediate Language(MSIL),
Understanding IL with ILDASM, .NET Framework, common class library, common type
system(CTS), common language specifications(CLS), Languages under .NET, Working with
Microsoft Visual studio IDE.
UNIT 2: Object Oriented Programming Using C#
Explain features and phases of the object-oriented approach, Write and execute C# programs,
Use decision-making constructs and loop constructs, Implement structures, enumerations,
arrays, and collections, Implement polymorphism and overload functions and operators,
Explain and use delegates and events , Use various stream classes to implement file handling.
UNIT 3: GUI Applications Development using .NET Framework Work with the Windows
Forms and controls, Perform validation of controls using classes and controls , Work with
Dialog Boxes, Menus and MDI Application, Implement Printing and Reporting Functionality in a
Windows Forms Application, Package and deploy applications.
UNIT 4: Developing Database Applications Using ADO.NET
Create and manage connections using ADO.NET, Identify the disconnected and connected
environment in ADO.NET, Create datasets and data tables, Retrieve and store large binary
data, Perform bulk copy operations , Execute SQL notification maintain and update a cache,
Read, write, validate, and modify XML data using XML reader and writer classes.
UNIT 5: Developing Web applications Using ASP.NET
Create a Web Application, Program a Web Application, Add and Configure Server Controls,
Create a Common Layout by Using Master Pages, Manage State for a Web Application ,
Access and Display Data, Control Access to a Web Application , Deploy a Web Application,
Build Dynamic Web Applications, Create Controls for Web Applications.
TEXT BOOKS
1. C# and the .NET Platform Andrew Troelsen, Apress Wiley dreamtech, India Pvt Ltd
2. Professional ASP.NET 3.5: In C# and VB, March 2008, WroxPress.
REFERENCES
173
1. C# Your Visual Blueprint for building .NET Applications By : Eric Butow and Tommy
Ryan
2. ASP.NET Your Visual Blueprint for building Web on the .NET framework By Danny
Ryan and Tommy Ryan
3. Introduction to C# Using .NET Pearson Education
4. C# How to program, Pearson Education
174
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11ITD1121) NETWORK SECURITY
Course Objectives:
1. Discuss security concepts, threats, attacks,services and mechanisms.
2. Describe various cryptosystems- symmetric key cryptography, public key
cryptography.
3. Comprehend and apply authentication services and mechanisms, and Email
security.
4. Discuss the concepts of IP Security, web security, viruses and firewalls
Course Outcomes:
1. Define fundamentals of network security and demonstrate available
networking solutions.
2. Analyze cryptographic techniques and encryption algorithms for secure
communication.
3. Discriminate threats, attacks and possible types of firewall
implementations.
4. Design secure mails and apply authentication techniques available.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
1 2 1 2 2
1
Network CO-
1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2
Security 2
CO-
1 2 2
3
CO-
1 2 1 1
4
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION: Security Attacks (Interruption, Interception, Modification and Fabrication),
Security Services (Confidentiality, Authentication, Integrity, Non-repudiation, access Control
175
and Availability) and Mechanisms, A model for Internetwork security, Classical Encryption
techniques, Fiestel Cipher Structure, Data Encryption Standard, Block Cipher Design
Principles and Modes of Operation, Triple DES, IDEA, BLOWFISH, RC-4, Evaluation criteria
for AES, AES Cipher, Placement of Encryption Function, Traffic Confidentiality
UNIT II
PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOGRAPHY
Confidentiality using Symmetric Encryption – Principles of Public key Cryptosystems, RSA
algorithm, Key Management, Diffie-Hellman key Exchange, Elliptic Curve Cryptography. Buffer
overflow, TCP session hijacking, ARP attacks, route table modification, UDP hijacking and
man-in-the-middle attacks.
UNIT III
AUTHENTICATION AND HASH FUNCTIONS
Authentication requirements, Authentication functions, Message Authentication Codes, Hash
Functions, Security of Hash Functions and MACs, MD5 message Digest algorithm , Secure
Hash Algorithm, RIPEMD, HMAC Digital Signatures, Authentication Protocols, Digital Signature
Standard, Authentication Applications: Kerberos – X.509 Authentication Service
UNIT IV
NETWORK SECURITY: Email Security and Web Security
Electronic Mail Security – PGP/ SMIME, IP security- Architecture, Authentication Header,
Encapsulating Security Payload, Key Management, Web Security- Secure Socket Layer,
Transport Layer Security and Secure Electronic Transaction
UNIT V
SYSTEM LEVEL SECURITY
Intrusion detection – password management – Viruses and related Threats – Virus Counter
measures – Firewall Design Principles – Trusted Systems.
TEXT BOOKS
1. “Cryptography And Network Security – Principles and Practices”,William Stallings,
Prentice Hall of India, Fourth Edition, 2005.
2. “Applied Cryptography”, Bruce Schneier, John Wiley & Sons Inc, 2001
REFERENCES
1. “Security in Computing”, Charles B. Pfleeger, Shari Lawrence Pfleeger, Third
Edition, Pearson Education, 2003
2. “Cryptography and Network Security”, Atul Kahate, Tata McGraw-Hill, 2003.
3. “Hack Proofing your network” by Ryan Russell, Dan Kaminsky, Rain Forest, Puppy,
Joe Grand, DavidAhmad, Hal Flynn Ido Dubrawsky, Steve W.Manzuik and Ryan
Permeh, wiley Dreamtech
176
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11HAS1103) MANAGEMENT SCIENCE
Course objectives:
1. Understand the principles, functions, theories and practices of different
management areas and to provide them with practical exposure to cases of
success/failure in business.
2. Expose with a systematic and critical understanding of organizational theory,
structures and design.
3. Familiarize with the tools of operations and project management.
4. Understand the role of human relations in the management of operations.
5. Comprehend conceptual models of strategic management.
6. Provide basic insights into contemporary management practices.
Course Outcomes:
1. Function effectively in multidisciplinary teams to accomplish a common
goal of organizations.
2. Demonstrate knowledge of contemporary management practices.
3. Use the project management techniques and Achieve new insights and
refine skills of interpretation.
4. Appreciate the management challenges associated with high levels of
change in the organizations and Compare and contrast between different
organization structures.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 2 1 2
1
Management CO-
2 1 2
Science 2
CO-
2 1 2
3
CO-
2 1 2
4
177
UNIT I
Introduction to management
Concepts of management - nature, importance, and functions of management; Taylor’s
scientific management theory; Fayol’s principles of management; Mayo’s Hawthorne
experiments; Maslow’s theory of human needs; Douglas McGregor’s theory X and theory Y;
Herzberg’s two-factor theory of motivation; System and contingency approach to management;
Planning – meaning, significance, and types of plans; Decision making and steps in decision
making process; Leadership styles; Social responsibilities of management.
Organizing - Meaning, and features; Process of organization; Principles of organization;
Elements of organization; Organization chart; Span of control - Graicunas formulae;
Centralisation and decentralization; Types of mechanistic and organic structures of
organisation - line organization, line and staff organization, functional organization, committee
organization, matrix organization, virtual organisation, cellular organisation, team structure,
boundaryless organization, inverted pyramid structure, and lean and flat organization structure;
Their merits, demerits and suitability.
UNIT II
Human resources management
Concepts of HRM;
Basic functions of HR manager - human resource planning (definition; objectives; process),
recruitment (definition; sources; techniques), selection (definition; process), induction and
orientation, training and development (definition; need; methods), employee exit process,
employee relations management, employee compensation and benefits administration, job
evaluation (objectives; process; methods), and performance appraisals (objectives; process;
methods).
UNIT III
Strategic management
Mission; Goals; Objectives; Policy; Strategy; Programmes; Elements of corporate planning
process - environmental scanning; value chain analysis, BCG matrix, generic strategy
alternatives, SWOT analysis, and steps in strategy formulation and implementation; Balance
score card; Capability maturity model (CMM)/ People capability maturity model (PCMM).
UNIT IV
Operations management
Plant location; Types of plant layout; Methods of production – job, batch, and mass production;
Work study-basic procedure involved in method study and work measurement.
Materials management
178
Objectives; Need for inventory control; EOQ, ABC Analysis; Purchase procedure; Value
analysis; JIT, Six sigma; TQM; Supply chain management; Stores management and stores
records.
Marketing
Functions of marketing; Marketing mix, and marketing strategies based on product life cycle;
Channels of distribution.
UNIT V
Project management – network analysis
Network analysis; Programme evaluation review technique - PERT (probability of completing
the project within given time); Critical path method - CPM (Identifying critical path); Project cost
analysis; Project crashing; Simple problems.
TEXT BOOK
1. Management Science by Aryasri; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill, 2009.
2. Management by James Arthur, Finch Stoner, R. Edward Freeman, and Daniel R. Gilbert
6th Ed; Publisher: Pearson Education/Prentice Hall.
3. Principles and Practice of Management - L.M. Prasad; Publisher: Sultan Chand
Publications, New Delhi.
REFERENCES
1. Principles of Marketing: A South Asian Perspective by Kotler Philip, Gary Armstrong,
Prafulla Y. Agnihotri, and Eshan ul Haque , 2010, 13th Edition, Publisher: Pearson
Education/ Prentice Hall of India.
2. A Handbook of Human Resource Management Practice by Michael Armstrong, 2010;
Publisher: Kogan Page Publishers.
3. Quantitative Techniques in Management by N.D. Vohra, 4th edition, 2010; Publisher: Tata
McGraw Hill.
4. Operations Management: Theory and Practice by B. Mahadevan, 2010; Publisher:
Pearson Education.
5. Strategic Management by V.S.P. Rao and V. Hari Krishna, 2010; Publisher: Excel Books.
179
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective – II 3 1 3
(R11CSE1112) MOBILE COMPUTING
Course Objectives:
1. Recognize the need of Mobile communications and Mobile computing and
WLAN Techniques.
2. Identify the need of Mobility management at IP and Transport Layers.
3. Differentiate between Audio and Video broad casting and to know the role of
scripting in Mobile environment
4. State the Role of Database and it’s Management in Mobile Environment role
security in wireless environment.
Course Outcomes:
1. Demonstrate differences between wired and wireless communications
and categorize MAC protocols used in Wireless Communication, GSM.
2. Describe the need of Mobile IP and illustrate about Encapsulation,
MANET’s and Mobile Transport Layer.
3. Apply DAB and DVB in real life and develop scripting codes needed
for mobile environment
4. Models Different Hoarding Techniques and Updating Database in
Mobile Environment and construct the security features to suite for
mobile environment.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
1 2 1 1 1 2 1 2 1
1
Mobile CO-
1 1 1 2 1 1 2 1 2 2
Computing 2
CO-
1 2 1 2 1 2 2 1 2 2
3
CO-
1 1 1 2 1 1 2 1 1 1
4
UNIT I
180
Introduction
Mobile Communications, Mobile Computing – Paradigm, Promises/Novel Applications and
Impediments and Architecture; Mobile and Handheld Devices, Limitations of Mobile and
Handheld Devices.
GSM – Services, System Architecture, Radio Interfaces, Protocols, Localization, Calling,
Handover, Security, New Data Services, GPRS, CSHSD, DECT.
UNIT –II
(Wireless) Medium Access Control (MAC)
Motivation for a specialized MAC (Hidden and exposed terminals, Near and far terminals),
SDMA, FDMA, TDMA, CDMA. MAC protocols for GSM, Wireless LAN (IEEE802.11), Collision
Avoidance (MACA, MACAW) Protocols.
UNIT –III
Mobile IP Network Layer
IP and Mobile IP Network Layers, Packet Delivery and Handover Management, Location
Management, Registration, Tunnelling and Encapsulation, Route Optimization, DHCP.
Mobile Transport Layer
Conventional TCP/IP Protocols, Indirect TCP, Snooping TCP, Mobile TCP, Other Transport
Layer Protocols for Mobile Networks.
UNIT IV
Mobile Ad hoc Networks (MANETs)
Introduction, Applications & Challenges of a MANET, Routing, Classification of
Routing Algorithms, Algorithms such as DSR, AODV, DSDV, etc. , Mobile Agents, Service
Discovery.
Protocols and Platforms for Mobile Computing
WAP, Bluetooth, XML, J2ME, JavaCard, PalmOS, Windows CE, SymbianOS, Linux for Mobile
Devices.
UNIT V
Database Issues
Database Hoarding & Caching Techniques, C – S Computing & Adaptation, Transactional
Models, Query processing, Data Recovery Process & QoS Issues.
Data Dissemination and Synchronization
Communications Asymmetry, Classification of Data Delivery Mechanisms, Data Dissemination
Broadcast Models, Selective Tuning and Indexing Methods, Digital Audio and Video
Broadcasting (DAB & DVB). Data Synchronization – Introduction, Software, and Protocols
181
Text Book:-
1. “Mobile Computing”, Raj Kamal, Oxford University Press, 2007, ISBN: 0195686772
Reference Books:-
1. “Mobile Communications”, Jochen Schiller, Addison-Wesley, Second Edition, 2004.
2. “Handbook of Wireless Networks and Mobile Computing”, Stojmenovic and Cacute, Wiley,
2002, ISBN 0471419028.
3. “Mobile Computing Principles: Designing and Developing Mobile Applications with UML
and XML”, Reza Behravanfar, ISBN: 0521817331, Cambridge University Press,Oct 2004,
182
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective – II 3 1 3
(R11CSE1125) DISTRIBUTED DATABASES
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
1. Construct simple and moderately advanced database queries using
Structured Query Language (SQL).
2. Design and implement a small database project using Microsoft Access.
3. Understand the concept of a database transaction and related database
facilities, including concurrency control; backup and recovery, and
data object Locking and protocols.
4. Describe and discuss selected advanced database topics, such as
distributed database systems and the data warehouse.
Course Outcomes:
5. Explain and evaluate the fundamental theories and requirements that
influence the design of modern database systems
6. Assess and apply database functions and packages suitable for enterprise
database
7. Development and database management critically evaluate alternative
designs and architectures for databases and data warehouses
8. Analyze and evaluate methods of storing, managing and interrogating
complex data
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 2 1 1 1 1 2 2 1 2
1
Distributed Data CO-
2 2 2 2 2 1 1 2 2 1
Bases 2
CO-
2 1 2 2 1 2 1 1 2 2 1 1
3
CO-
2 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 2 2
4
UNIT – I
Features of Distributed versus Centralized Databases, Principles Of Distributed Databases ,
Levels Of Distribution Transparency, Reference Architecture for Distributed Databases , Types
183
of Data Fragmentation, Distribution transparency for Read – only Applications, Distribution
transparency for update Applications, Distributed database Access primitives, Integrity
Constraints in Distributed Databases.Distributed Database design – A frame work, the design
of database fragmentation, the allocation of fragments.
UNIT – II
Translation of Global Queries to Fragment Queries, Equivalence Transformations for Queries,
Transforming Global Queries into Fragment Queries, Distributed Grouping and Aggregate
Function Evaluation, Parametric Queries.
UNIT – III
Optimization of Access Strategies, A Framework for Query Optimization, Join Queries, General
Queries.
UNIT – IV
The Management of Distributed Transactions, A Framework for Transaction Management,
Supporting Atomicity of Distributed Transactions, Concurrency Control for Distributed
Transactions, Architectural Aspects of Distributed Transactions.
Concurrency Control, Foundation of Distributed Concurrency Control, Distributed Deadlocks,
Concurrency Control based on Timestamps, Optimistic Methods for Distributed Concurrency
Control.
UNIT – V
Reliability, Basic Concepts, Non blocking Commitment Protocols, Reliability and concurrency
Control, Determining a Consistent View of the Network, Detection and Resolution of
Inconsistency, Checkpoints and Cold Restart.
Distributed Database Administration, Catalog Management in Distributed Databases,
Authorization and Protection
TEXT BOOKS
1. Distributed Database Principles & Systems, Stefano Ceri, Giuseppe Pelagatti McGraw-Hill
REFERENCES
1. Principles of Distributed Database Systems, M.Tamer Ozsu, Patrick Valduriez – Pearson
Education.
184
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective – II 3 1 3
(R11CSE1126)SOFT COMPUTING
Course Objectives:
1. Understand and analyze the importance and basic concepts of Soft
Computing and the use of agents.
2. Identify, explore the complex problem solving approaches and strategies.
3. Explore and analyze the basic concepts of fuzzy logic and learning process.
4. Analyze and use the concept of neural network programming for various
domains.
Course Outcomes:
1. Recognize the feasibility of applying a soft computing methodology for
a particular problem.
2. Categorize fuzzy logic and reasoning to handle uncertainty and solve
engineering problems.
3. Remembering genetic algorithms to solve combinatorial optimization
problems .
4. Apply neural networks to pattern classification and regression
problems
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
1 2 1
1
CO-
Soft computing 2 2 1 1 1
2
CO-
2 1 2 2
3
CO-
1 2 1 1
4
UNIT-I
AI Problems and Search: AI problems, Techniques, Problem Spaces and Search, Heuristic
Search Techniques- Generate and Test, Hill Climbing, Simulated Annealing, Best First Search
185
Problem reduction, Constraint Satisfaction and Means End Analysis. Approaches to
Knowledge Representation- Using Predicate Logic and Rules.
UNIT-II
Artificial Neural Networks: Introduction, Basic models of ANN, important terminologies,
Supervised Learning Networks, Perceptron Networks, Adaptive Linear Neuron, Back
propagation Network. Asscociative Memory Networks. Training Algorithms for pattern
association,BAM and Hopfield Networks.
UNIT-III
Unsupervised Learning Network- Introduction, Fixed Weight Competitive Nets, Maxnet,
Hamming Network, Kohonen Self-Organizing Feature Maps, Counter Propagation Networks,
Adaptive Resonance Theory Networks. Special Networks-Introduction to various networks.
UNIT-IV
Introduction to Classical Sets (crisp Sets) and Fuzzy Sets- operations and Fuzzy sets.
Classical Relations and Fuzzy Relations- Cardinality, Operations, Properties and composition.
Tolerance and equivalence relations. Membership functions- Features, Fuzzification,
membership value assignments, Defuzzification.
UNIT-V
Fuzzy Arithmetic and Fuzzy Measures, Fuzzy Rule Base and Approximate Reasoning Fuzzy
Decision making Fuzzy Logic Control Systems. Genetic Algorithm- Introduction and basic
operators and terminology. Applications: Internet Search Technique, Hybrid Fuzzy Controllers.
Text Books:
1. Principles of Soft Computing- S N Sivanandam, S N Deepa, Wiley India, 2007
2. Soft Computing and Intelligent System Design -Fakhreddine O Karray, Clarence D Silva,.
Pearson Edition, 2004.
References:
1. Artificial Intelligence and Soft Computing- Behavioral and Cognitive Modeling of the Human
Brain- Amit Konar, CRC press, Taylor and Francis Group.
2. Artificial Intelligence – Patric Henry Winston – Third Edition, Pearson Education.
3. A first course in Fuzzy Logic-Hung T Nguyen and Elbert A Walker, CRC. Press Taylor and
Francis Group.
4. Artificial Intelligence – Elaine Rich and Kevin Knight, TMH, 1991, 2008.
186
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE – ISem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11ITD1203) WEB TECHNOLOGIES LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. Choose best technologies for solving web client/server problems
2. Create conforming web pages ,Use JavaScript for dynamic effects
3. Use Javascript to validate form input entry, Use appropriate client-side or
Server-side applications, Create adaptive web pages, Implement cookies
4. Deploy Java Applets and Servlets ,Create an XML application
Course Outcomes:
1. Identify the entities responsible for implementing mark-up language
standards.
2. Code and troubleshoot HTML and XHTML web pages, incorporating
CSS and Scripts.
3. Incorporate multimedia (images, animation, sound, and movies) into
web pages.
4. Demonstrate effective use of Dreamweaver to build and publish
professional websites that employ best practices, adhere to current web
standards, and pass Validation.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
1 1 2 1 2 2 2
Web 1
CO-
Technologies 2 1 1 1 2 2 2 2
2
Laboratory
CO-
2 1 1 2 1
3
CO-
2 1 1 2 1 2 2 2 2
4
HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE REQUIRED
187
1. A working computer system with either Windows or Linux
2. A web browser either IE or firefox
3. Tomcat web server
4. XML editor like Altova Xml-spy [www.Altova.com/XMLSpy – free ] , Stylusstudio ,
etc.,
5. A database either Mysql or Oracle
6. JVM(Java virtual machine) must be installed on your system
7. BDK(Bean development kit) must be also be installed
WEEK 1
Design the following static web pages required for an online book store web site.
1) HOME PAGE:
The static home page must contain three frames.
Top frame : Logo and the college name and links to Home page, Login page, Registration
page, Catalogue page and Cart page (the description of these pages will be given below).
Left frame : At least four links for navigation, which will display the catalogue of respective
links. For e.g.: When you click the link “CSE” the catalogue for CSE Books should be displayed
in the Right frame.
Right frame: The pages to the links in the left frame must be loaded here. Initially this page
contains description of the web site.
Web Site Name
Logo
Home Login Registration Catalogue Cart
CSE
ECE
EEE Description of the Web Site
CIVIL
Fig 1.1
2) LOGIN PAGE:
This page looks like below:
Web Site Name
Logo
Home Login Registration Catalogue Cart
188
CSE
ECE Login :
EEE Password:
CIVIL
Submit Reset
3) CATOLOGUE PAGE:
The catalogue page should contain the details of all the books available in the web site in a
tabular format.
The details should contain the following:
1. Snap shot of Cover Page.
2. Book Title, Author Name, Publisher.
3. Price.
4. Add to cart button.
Logo Web Site Name
Home Login Registration Catalogue Cart
CSE Book : XML Bible
Author : Winston $ 40.5
ECE Publication : Wiely
EEE
Book : AI $ 63
CIVIL Author : S.Russel
Publication : Princeton hall
Book : Java 2 $ 35.5
Author : Watson
Publication : BPB publications
189
Book : HTML in 24 hours $ 50
Author : Sam Peter
Publication : Sam publication
WEEK 2
4) CART PAGE:
The cart page contains the details about the books which are added to the cart.
The cart page should look like this:
Logo Web Site Name
Home Login Registration Catalogue Cart
IT
CSE Book name Price Quantity Amount
ECE
EEE Java 2 $35.5 2 $70
CIVIL XML bible $40.5 1 $40.5
Total amount - $130.5
5) REGISTRATION PAGE:
Create a “registration form “with the following fields
1) Name (Text field)
2) Password (password field)
3) E-mail id (text field)
4) Phone number (text field)
5) Sex (radio button)
6) Date of birth (3 select boxes)
7) Languages known (check boxes – English, Telugu, Hindi, Tamil)
8) Address (text area)
WEEK 3
VALIDATION:
a) Write JavaScript to validate the following fields of the above registration page.
1. Name (Name should contains only alphabets and the length should not be less
than 6 characters).
2. Password (Password should not be less than 6 characters length).
3. E-mail id (should not contain any invalid and must follow the standard pattern
name@domain.com)
4. Phone number (Phone number should contain 10 digits only).
190
b) Write JavaScript to validate the above login page with the above parameters.
WEEK 4
Design a web page using CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) which includes the following:
1) Use different font, styles:
In the style definition you define how each selector should work (font, color etc.).
Then, in the body of your pages, you refer to these selectors to activate the styles.
For example:
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<style type="text/css">
B.headline {color:red; font-size:22px; font-family:arial; text-decoration:underline}
</style>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<b>This is normal bold</b><br>
<b class="headline">This is headline style bold</b>
</BODY>
</HTML>
2) Set a background image for both the page and single elements on the page.
You can define the background image for the page like this:
BODY {background-image:url(myimage.gif);}
3) Control the repetition of the image with the background-repeat property.
As background-repeat: repeat
Tiles the image until the entire page is filled, just like an ordinary background
image in plain HTML.
4) Define styles for links as
A:link
A:visited
A:active
A:hover
Example:
<style type="text/css">
A:link {text-decoration: none}
A:visited {text-decoration: none}
A:active {text-decoration: none}
A:hover {text-decoration: underline; color: red;}
</style>
5) Work with layers:
191
For example:
LAYER 1 ON TOP:
<div style="position:relative; font-size:50px; z-index:2;">LAYER 1</div>
<div style="position:relative; top:-50; left:5; color:red; font-size:80px; z- index:1">LAYER 2</div>
LAYER 2 ON TOP:
<div style="position:relative; font-size:50px; z-index:3;">LAYER 1</div>
<div style="position:relative; top:-50; left:5; color:red; font-size:80px; z- index:4">LAYER 2</div>
6) Add a customized cursor:
Selector {cursor:value}
For example:
<html>
<head>
<style type="text/css">
.xlink {cursor:crosshair}
.hlink{cursor:help}
</style>
</head>
<body>
<b>
<a href="mypage.htm" class="xlink">CROSS LINK</a>
<br>
<a href="mypage.htm" class="hlink">HELP LINK</a>
</b>
</body>
</html>
WEEK 5
Write an XML file which will display the Book information which includes the following:
1) Title of the book
2) Author Name
3) ISBN number
4) Publisher name
5) Edition
6) Price
Write a Document Type Definition (DTD) to validate the above XML file.
Display the XML file as follows.
The contents should be displayed in a table. The header of the table should be in color GREY.
And the Author names column should be displayed in one color and should be capitalized and
in bold. Use your own colors for remaining columns.
Use XML schemas XSL and CSS for the above purpose.
Note: Give at least for 4 books. It should be valid syntactically.
Hint: You can use some xml editors like XML-spy
192
WEEK 6
VISUAL BEANS:
Create a simple visual bean with a area filled with a color.
The shape of the area depends on the property shape. If it is set to true then the shape of the
area is Square and it is Circle, if it is false.
The color of the area should be changed dynamically for every mouse click. The color should
also be changed if we change the color in the “property window “.
WEEK 7
Install TOMCAT web server.
While installation assign port number 8000 to TOMCAT. Make sure that these ports are
available i.e., no other process is using this port.
Access the above developed static web pages for books web site, using these servers by
putting the web pages developed in week-1 and week-2 in the document root.
Access the pages by using the urls: http://localhost:8000/vnr/books.html
WEEK 8
User Authentication :
Assume four users user1, user2, user3 and user4 having the passwords pwd1,pwd2,pwd3 and
pwd4 respectively. Write a servelet for doing the following.
1. Create a Cookie and add these four user id’s and passwords to this Cookie.
2. Read the user id and passwords entered in the Login form (week1) and authenticate with
the values (user id and passwords ) available in the cookies.
If he is a valid user (i.e., user-name and password match) you should welcome him by
name(user-name) else you should display “ You are not an authenticated user “.
Use init-parameters to do this. Store the user-names and passwords in the web.xml and
access them in the servlet by using the getInitParameters() method.
WEEK 9
Install JSDK.
User Authentication :
Assume four users user1, user2, user3 and user4 having the passwords pwd1, pwd2, pwd3
and pwd4 respectively. Write a servelet for doing the following.
1. Use init-parameters to do this. access them in the servlet by using the getInitParameters()
method.
2. Read the user id and passwords entered in the Login form (week1) and authenticate with
the values (user id and passwords ) with above accessed values.
If user is a valid user (i.e., user-name and password match) you should welcome user by name
(user-name) else you should display “ You are not an authenticated user “.
WEEK 10
Install a database (Mysql or Oracle).
Create a table which should contain at least the following fields: name, password, email-id,
phone number (these should hold the data from the registration form).
Practice 'JDBC' connectivity.
193
Write a java program/servlet/JSP to connect to that database and extract data from the tables
and display them. Experiment with various SQL queries.
Insert the details of the users who register with the web site, whenever a new user clicks the
submit button in the registration page (week2).
WEEK 11
Write a JSP which does the following job: Insert the details of the 3 or 4 users who register with
the web site (week9) by using registration form. Authenticate the user when he submits the
login form using the user name and password from the database (similar to week8 instead of
cookies).
WEEK 12
Create tables in the database which contain the details of items (books in our case like Book
name, Price, Quantity, Amount)) of each category. Modify your catalogue page (week 2) in
such a way that you should connect to the database and extract data from the tables and
display them in the catalogue page using JDBC.
194
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11CSE1207) VISUAL PROGRAMMING TECHNIQUES LABORATORY
Course objectives:
1. Implementing various applications using Visual C#.NET language
2. Develop various applications using Microsoft Visual Studio .NET IDE
environment.
3. Write various programs to develop static and dynamic websites using
ASP.NET
4. Building a good foundation for understanding and learning advanced
programming concepts, such as, object-oriented programming.
Course Outcomes:
1. Understand the fundamentals of visual programming
2. Be familiar with the essential techniques to build windows applications
using visual C# approach
3. Will be able to develop, test and debug programs in C# .NET using the
Microsoft Visual Studio .NET IDE environment.
4. Take advantages of the many new capabilities of building applications in
graphical environment
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
Visual CO- 1 2 1 1 2 2 1 1
1
Programming CO- 1 2 2 1 1 1 2 2
Techniques 2
Laboratory CO- 2 2 1 1 1 2 1 2
3
CO- 1 2 1 1 2 2 1 1
4
Week 1:
195
1. Write console applications using C# for the following:
a. Display message “Welcome to Visual Programming Lab”
b. Perform arithmetic operations on given two numbers
c. Finding factorial Value
d. Money Conversion
e. Quadratic Equation
f. Temperature Conversion
Week 2:
2. Write console applications to illustrate conditional statements such as:
a. If-then-else
b. Switch, break and continue
3. Write console applications to illustrate looping statements such as:
a. While and do-while
b. For and foreach
Week 3:
4. Write C# programs to implement exception handling using the following keywords:
a. Try ,catch and throw
5. Write C# programs to illustrate Object oriented programming features:
a. Encapsulation
b. Inheritance
c. Polymorphism
Week 4:
6. Write C# programs to make us of the following data types
a. Enum.
b. Structures
7. Write C# programs to make us of the following data types
a. Arrays
b. Collections
8. Write C# programs using the following concepts
a. Delegates
b. Events
Week 5:
9. Design a Windows Application to implement simple calculator by using controls in
C#.
a. Textbox b. Labels c. Buttons
10. Design a student registration form by making use of all other controls in C#.
a. ListBox b. Combobox c. Radio Buttons d. Check
Boxes and other controls
Week 6:
11. Design a windows form application by using advanced controls available in C#.
12. Design a windows form application using Menu Control and Dialog Box (Notepad).
13. Design an MDI Application in C#
Week 7 & 8:
196
14. Design a windows form application which uses ADO.NET to perform basic database
operations.
15. Design a windows form application which uses ADO.NET to perform advanced
database operations.
16. Write a C# program to read and write data in XML file.
Week 9:
17. Design web applications using ASP.NET for the following:
a. Display message “Welcome to Visual Programming Lab”
b. Perform arithmetic operations on given two numbers
c. Finding factorial Value
d. Money Conversion
e. Quadratic Equation
f. Temperature Conversion
18. Write a Program to perform Asp.Net state.
Week 10:
19. Write a Program to create an Advertisement using Ad rotator.
20. Write a Program to perform following operations on calendar
21. display the Holiday in calendar.
22. display the selected date in the calendar.
23. display the Difference between the two dates in the calendar.
24. Write a Program to perform Tree view operation using data list.
Week 11:
25. Write a Program to perform validation operation.
26. Write a Program to insert the data in to database using Execute-Non Query.
27. Write a Program to delete the data in to database using Execute non-query.
Week 12:
28. Create an application in which user has to display records in the Grid View Control
fromTable created in access data base. (With the Help Of Oledb Classes or Access
Data SourceControl)
29. Study of the User Controls and their event, using the user controls to the web pages
30. Create application which uses Standard Login Control to The Web Application
Week 13:
31. Use the Asp Navigation control that allows user to navigation and selection facility
the pages of Web site
32. Create the Sign In, Sign Up and Update Application using session management
197
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11ITD1122) SOFTWARE PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives:
1. To study how to plan and manage projects at each stage of the software
development life cycle (SDLC)
2. The ability to come up with a project schedule and assign resources and
identify project risks, monitor and track project deadlines
3. The capability to work in a team environment and be aware of different
modes of communications
4. To train software project managers and other individuals involved in software
project planning and tracking and oversight in the implementation of the
software project management process and To understand successful
software projects that support organization's strategic goals.
Course Outcomes:
1. Identify and describe how different project contexts will impact upon all
aspects of a software development project
2. Identify and describe the key phases of project management and the key
skills associated with each
3. Determine an appropriate project management approach through an
evaluation of the business context and project scope and knowledge of
agile and traditional project management approaches
4. Demonstrate through application, knowledge of the key project
management skills, such as product and work break-down structure,
schedule; governance including progress reporting, risk and quality
management
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
Software Project a b c d e f g h i j k l
Management CO-
1 2 1 2
1
198
CO-
2 2 1 1 2
2
CO-
2 1 2 2
3
CO-
1 2 1 1
4
UNIT-I
Conventional Software Management: The waterfall model, conventional software
Management performance.
Improving Software Economics: Reducing Software product size, improving software
processes, improving team effectiveness, improving automation, Achieving required quality,
peer inspections.
UNIT – II
The old way and the new way: The principles of conventional software Engineering,
principles of modern software management, transitioning to an iterative process.
Life cycle phases: Engineering and production stages, Inception, Elaboration, Construction,
Transition phases.
Artifacts of the process: The artifact sets, Management artifacts, Engineering artifacts,
programmatic artifacts.
UNIT – III
Work Flows of the process: Software process workflows, Iteration workflows.
Checkpoints of the process: Major mile stones, Minor Milestones, Periodic status
assessments.
Iterative Process Planning: Work breakdown structures, planning guidelines, cost and
schedule estimating, Iteration planning process, Pragmatic planning.
UNIT – IV
Process Automation: Automation Building blocks.
Project Control and Process instrumentation: The seven core Metrics, Management
indicators, quality indicators, life cycle expectations, pragmatic Software Metrics, Metrics
automation.
Tailoring the Process: Process discriminants.
UNIT – V
Project Organizations and Responsibilities: Line-of-Business Organizations
Future Software Project Management: Modern Project Profiles, Next generation Software
economics, modern process transitions.
Case Study: The command Center Processing and Display system- Replacement (CCPDS-R)
199
TEXT BOOKS
1. Software Project Management, Walker Royce: Pearson Education, 2005.
2. Software Project Management, Bob Hughes and Mike Cotterell: Tata McGraw- Hill Edition.
REFERENCES
1. Software Project Management, Joel Henry, Pearson Education.
2. Software Project Management in practice, Pankaj Jalote, Pearson Education.2005.
200
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-III 3 1 3
(R11CSE1115) SEMANTIC WEB AND SOCIAL NETWORKS
Course Objectives
1. To analyze Web Intelligence and synthesize Knowledge Representation for
the Semantic Web
2. To evaluate Ontology engineering and applications pertaining to it.
3. To understand the essence of Semantic Web Applications, Services that
promotes Semantic Web Technology
4. To infer the principles of Social Network Analysis and correlate the rules with
the semantic web and to categorize ontologies, domain modeling, logic,
reasoning and inference techniques, semantic web services.
Course Outcomes:
1. Discuss social media as a set of digital tools used for a wide range of
information dissemination and communication purposes.
2. Explore the metaphor of social media as “communication as culture.”
3. Demonstrate familiarity with the range of social media spaces.
4. Reflect critically on the use of social tools and identify strategies for
their effective implementation
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 2 1 2 1 1 1 2 2 1 1
Semantic Web 1
CO-
and Social 2 2 2 1 2 2 2 2 1 2
2
Networks
CO-
2 2 1 2 1 2 1 2 1
3
CO-
2 2 2 2 2 2 1 2 2 2 2 2
4
UNIT I
Thinking and Intelligent Web Applications, The Information Age, The World Wide Web,
Limitations of Todays Web, The Next Generation Web
Machine Intelligence, Artificial Intelligence, Ontology, Inference engines, Software Agents,
Berners-Lee www, Semantic Road Map, Logic on the semantic Web.
UNIT II
201
Ontologies and their role in the semantic web, Ontologies Languages for the Semantic Web -
Resource Description Framework(RDF) / RDF Schema. Ontology Web
Language(OWL),UML,XML/XML Schema.
Ontology Engineering, Constructing Ontology, Ontology Development Tools, Ontology
Methods, Ontology Sharing and Merging, Ontology Libraries and Ontology Mapping,
UNIT III
Logic, Rule and Inference Engines. Semantic Web applications and services. Semantic
Search.
e-learning, Semantic Bioinformatics, Knowledge Base
UNIT IV
XML Based Web Services, Creating an OWL-S Ontology for Web Services. Semantic Search
Techno logy, Web Search Agents and Semantic Methods,
UNIT V
What is social Networks analysis, development of the social networks analysis, Electronic
Sources for Network Analysis - Electronic Discussion networks.
Blogs and Online Communities. Web Based Networks. Building Semantic Web Applications
with social network features.
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Thinking on the Web - Berners Lee.Godel and Turing,Wiley interscience,20()8.
2. Social Networks and the Semantic Web, Peter Mika,Springer,2007.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Semantic Web Technologies,Trends and Research in Ontology Based Systems,
J.Davies, Rudi Studer. Paul Warren, John Wiley & Sons.
2. Semantic Web and Semantic Web Services -Liyang Lu Chapman and Hall/CRC
Publishers,(Taylor & Francis Group)
3. Information Sharing on the semantic Web - Heiner Stuckenschmidt; Frank Van
Harmelen, Springer Publications.
4. Programming the Semantic Web.T.Segaran, C.Evans, J.Taylor, O'Reilly,SPD.
202
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - III 3 1 3
(R11ECE1113) DIGITAL IMAGE PROCESSING
Course Objectives:
1. Explain various fundamental concepts digital image processing
2. Application of various image transforms to improve the quality of image.
3. Analysis of different image features to segment various objects for image
recognition.
4. To implement various algorithms for image compression and decompression
Course Outcomes:
1. Understand the basic concepts required for processing the image.
2. Write the programs for enhancing the image quality both in spatial and
frequency domain.
3. Implement various algorithms for extracting image features which are
used for image analysis.
4. Optimize various image processing algorithms for improving the speed
of processing.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 1 2 1 2
1
Digital Image CO-
2 2 2 1 2 1 1 2 2
Processing 2
CO-
2 2 1 2 2 2 1 1 2
3
CO-
2 1 2 2 1 2 2 2 1 2
4
UNIT I
Fundamentals of Image Processing and Image Transforms
203
Digital Image Fundamentals, Basic steps of Image Processing System, Sampling and
Quantization of an image, relationship between pixels, Imaging Geometry. Image Transforms:
2 D- Discrete Fourier Transform, Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT), Haar Transform, Hadmard
Transform, Hotelling Transform and slant transform.
UNIT II
Image Enhancement
Spatial domain methods: Histogram processing, Fundamentals of Spatial filtering, Smoothing
spatial filters, Sharpening spatial filters.
Frequency domain methods: Basics of filtering in frequency domain, image smoothing, image
sharpening, Selective filtering.
UNIT III
Image Segmentation
Segmentation concepts, Point, Line and Edge Detection, Edge Linking using Hough
Transform, Thresholding, Region Based segmentation.
Wavelet based Image Processing: Introduction to wavelet Transform, Continuous wavelet
Transform, Discrete wavelet Transform, Filter banks, Wavelet based image compression
UNIT IV
Image Compression
Image compression fundamentals - Coding Redundancy, Spatial and Temporal redundancy,
Compression models: Lossy and Lossless, Huffman coding, Arithmetic coding, LZW coding,
Run length coding, Bit plane coding, Transform coding, Predictive coding, JPEG Standards.
UNIT V
Image Restoration
Image Restoration Degradation model, Algebraic approach to restoration, Inverse Filtering,
Least Mean square filters, Constrained Least squares Restoration, Interactive restoration.
Overview of Digital Image Watermarking Methods
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Digital Image Processing- Rafael C. Gonzalez and Richard E.Woods, 3rd Edition,
Pearson, 2008.
2. Digital Image Processing- S.Jayaraman, S Esakkirajan, T Veerakumar, TMH, 2010.
3. Fundamentals of Digital Image Processing-A.K.Jain, PHI, 1989.
REFERENCES:
1. Digital Image Processing-William K.Pratt, 3rd Edition, John Willey, 2004.
204
2. Digital Image Processing and Computer Vision – Somka, Hlavac, Boyl, Cengage
Learning, 2008.
3. Digital Image Processing using MATLAB - Rafael C. Gonzalez, Richard E.Woods and
Steven L.Edding 2nd , ,TMH. 2010.
4. Introductory Computer Vision Imaging Techniques and Solutions – Adrian Low,2nd
Edition, 2008.
5. Introduction to image Processing and Analysis – John C. Russ, J. Christian Russ, CRC
Press, 2010
205
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective -III 3 1 3
(R11ITD1124) BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE APPLICATIONS
Course Objectives:
1. To provide students with multimedia programming/scripting skills
necessary for designing and implementing rich internet applications.
2. To offer students with the skills to integrate complex dynamic databases
with intuitive front-end user interfaces using multimedia technologies.
3. To encourage students to independently engage with current and
emerging industry standard technologies for the creation of rich internet
applications.
4. To develop students’ competency in getting results for multimedia
related problems.
Course Outcomes:
1. Upon completion of the course, the students are expected to
Differentiate between Transaction Processing and Analytical
applications and describe the need for Business Intelligence
2. Demonstrate understanding of technology and processes associated with
data mining
3. Demonstrate understanding of Data Mining implementation
methodology and project life cycle
4. Design an enterprise dashboard that depicts the key performance
indicators which helps in decision making
5. Demonstrate application of concepts using open source tools
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 1
Business 1
CO-
Intelligence 2 2 1
2
Applications
CO-
2 1 1
3
CO-
2 1
4
206
CO-
2 2 2 1 1
5
UNIT I
Introduction to Business Intelligence
Introduction to digital data and its types – structured, semi-structured and unstructured.
Introduction to OLTP, OLAP (MOLAP, ROLAP, HOLAP), BI Definitions & Concepts.
UNIT II
Business Intelligence framework
BI Framework Data Warehousing concepts and its role in BI, BI Infrastructure Components –
BI Process, BI Technology, BI Roles & Responsibilities, Business Applications of BI, BI best
practices
UNIT III
Basics of Data Integration (Extraction Transformation Loading),
Concepts of data integration, needs and advantages of using data integration, introduction to
common data integration approaches, Meta data - types and sources, Introduction to data
quality, data profiling concepts and applications, introduction to ETL using Pentaho data
Integration (formerly Kettle)
UNIT IV
Introduction to Multi-Dimensional Data Modeling
Introduction to data and dimension modeling, multidimensional data model, ER Modeling vs.
multi dimensional modeling, concepts of dimensions, facts, cubes, attribute, hierarchies, star
and snowflake schema, introduction to business metrics and KPIs, creating cubes using
Microsoft Excel
UNIT V
Basics of Enterprise Reporting
A typical enterprise, Malcolm Baldrige - quality performance framework, balanced scorecard,
enterprise dashboard, balanced scorecard vs. enterprise dashboard, enterprise reporting using
MS Access / MS Excel, best practices in the design of enterprise dashboards
Reference Books:
1. Business Intelligence by David Loshin
2. Business intelligence for the enterprise by Mike Biere
3. Business intelligence roadmap by Larissa Terpeluk Moss, ShakuAtre
4. An introduction to Building the Data Warehouse – IBM
5. Business Intelligence For Dummies – Swain Scheps
6. Successful Business Intelligence: Secrets to making Killer BI Applications by Cindi
Howson
7. Information dashboard design by Stephen Few
207
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective – III 3 1 3
(R11CSE1106) INTRODUCTION TO MAINFRAME SYSTEMS
Course Objectives:
1. Create and edit JCL files.
2. Create parameters and execute common utility programs including
Sort.
3. Create and use symbolic parameters and conditionals in a procedure.
4. Create and use VSAM and other types of data sets.
5. Create and use Generation Data Groups (GDG).
Course Outcomes:
6. Understand the importance of Legacy System.
7. Role of Mainframes in infrastructure of a medium to large IT
organization.
8. Understand the different components of Mainframe Technology.
9. Learn the best practices for designing applications using Mainframe
Technology.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO- 1
1
Introduction to
CO- 2 2 2 1
Mainframe
2
Systems
CO- 1 1
3
CO- 1 1 1
4
UNIT I
208
Evolution of Mainframe hardware & Mainframes OS and Terminology
Overview of Computer Architecture -Classification of Computers - micro, mini, mainframes
and super computer - Mainframe computer - key features - benefits - Evolution of Mainframes
- Different hardware systems
Operating systems on mainframes, Batch processing vs. online processing - mainframe
operating system. - evolution - concepts of Address space, Buffer management - Virtual
storage - paging - swapping - Dataset management in mainframes
UNIT II
Z/OS and its features
Z-operating system (Z/OS) - Virtual storage - Paging process - storage Managers - Program
execution modes - Address space - Multiple virtual system(MVS) , MVS address space, Z/OS
address space - Dataset - sequential and partial dataset - Direct access storage
device(DASD) -Access methods - Record formats - Introduction to virtual storage access
methods(VSAM) - Catalog - VTOC
UNIT III
Overview of JCL & Overview of DB2
Introduction to Job Control language - Job processing - structure of JCL statements - Various
statements in JCL - JOB statement - EXEC statement - DD statement - JCL procedures and
IBM utility programs.
Introduction to DB2 – System Service component, Database Service component, Locking
Service component, Distributed Data Facility Services component, Stored Procedure
component, catalogs and optimizer
DB2 Objects and Data Types - DB2 Objects Hierarchy, Storage groups, Database, Table
space, Table, Index, Clustered index, Synonyms and aliases, Views, Data Types.
DB2 SQL programming – Types of SQL statements, DCL, DDL, DML, SPUFI utility.
Embedded SQL programming – Host variable, DECLGEN utility, SQLCA, single/multiple row
manipulation, cursors, scrollable cursors.
UNIT IV
COBOL Programming
Introduction – History, evolution and Features, COBOL program Structure, steps in executing
COBOL
Language Fundamentals – Divisions, sections, paragraphs, sections, sentences and
statements, character set, literals, words, figurative constants, rules for forming user defined
words, COBOL coding sheet.
Data division – Data names, level numbers, PIC and VALUE clause, REDEIFNES,
RENAMES and USAGE clause
Procedure Division – Input / Output verbs, INITIALIZE verb, data movement verbs, arithmetic
verbs, sequence control verbs.
File processing – Field, physical / logical records, file, file organization (sequential, indexed
and relative) and access mode, FILE-CONTROL paragraph, FILE SECTION, file operations.
File handling verbs – OPEN, READ, WRITE, REWRITE, CLOSE.
209
Table processing – Definition, declaration, accessing elements, subscript and index, SET
statement, SEARCH verb, SEARCH ALL verb, comparison.
Miscellaneous verbs – COPY, CALL, SORT, MERGE, STRING, UNSTRING verbs.
UNIT V
Mainframe Application Development guidelines
COBOL coding standards, relation between a COBOL file handling program and JCL,
Different types of ABEND codes, COBOL-DB2 program pre-compilation, DBRM (Database
Request Module), Application plan/packages, program execution methods (EDIT JCL,
foreground and background modes).
TEXT BOOKS
1. MVS JCL, Doug Lowe, Mike Murach and Associates
2. JCL Programming Bible (with z/OS) Gary DeWard Brown, fifth edition, Wiley
India Dream Tech, 2002.
3. z/OS V1R4.0 MVS JCL Reference found online at http://www-
1.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=pub1sa22759706
4. z/OS V1R1.0 MVS JCL Reference found online at
http://publibz.boulder.ibm.com/cgibin/bookmgr_OS390/BOOKS/iea2b600/CCO
NTENTS
5. COBOL - Language Reference, Ver 3, Release 2, IBM Redbook.
6. COBOL - Programming Guide, Ver 3, Release 2, IBM Redbook.
7. Nancy Stern & Robert A Stern, “Structured Cobol Programming”, John Wiley &
Sons, New York, 1973.
8. M.K. Roy and D. Ghosh Dastidar, “Cobol Programming”, Tata McGraw Hill,
New York, 1973.
9. Newcomer and Lawrence, Programming with Structured COBOL, McGraw Hill
Books, New York, 1973.
10. DB2 Developer’s Guide, Craig S Mullins, Sams Publishing, 1992.
11. DB2 Design & Development Guide, Gabrielle Wiorkowski & David Kull, Addison
Wesley, 1992.
210
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective – IV 3 1 3
(R11CSE1116) ADHOC AND SENSOR NETWORKS
Course Objectives:
1. To know the constraints of the wireless physical layer that affect the
design and performance of ad hoc and sensor networks, protocols, and
applications
2. To understand MAC, Routing protocols that have been proposed for ad
hoc and sensor networks
3. To understand the energy issues in sensor networks and how they can
be addressed using scheduling, media access control, and special
hardware.
4. To explain various security threats to ad hoc networks and describe
proposed solutions
Course Outcomes:
1. Demonstrate different types of Routing techniques in MANET’s and
Data Transmission techniques in MANET’s.
2. Describe the changes done to TCP to suite for ASN.
3. Summarize the design issues of Sensor Networks, Classify WSN,
Security measurements used in WSN
4. Illustrate Programming challenges in WSN different Platforms of WSN.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
1 2 1 1 1 2 1
Ad hoc and 1
CO-
Sensor 1 1 1 2 1 1 2 1
2
Networks
CO-
1 2 1 1 2 1 2 2 1
3
CO-
1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 2 1
4
UNIT I
211
Introduction to Ad Hoc Wireless Networks
Characteristics of MANETs, Applications of MANETs, Challenges.
Routing in MANETs
Topology-based versus Position based approaches, Topology based routing protocols,
Position based routing, Other Routing Protocols.
UNIT II
Data Transmission in MANETs
The Broadcast Storm, Multicasting, Geocasting
TCP over Ad Hoc Networks
TCP Protocol overview, TCP and MANETs, Solutions for TCP over Ad Hoc
UNIT III
Basics of Wireless Sensors and Applications
The Mica Mote, Sensing and Communication Range, Design Issues, Energy consumption,
Clustering of Sensors, Applications
UNIT IV
Data Retrieval in Sensor Networks
Classification of WSNs, MAC
layer, Routing layer, High-level application layer support, Adapting to the inherent dynamic
nature of WSNs.
Security
Security in Ad hoc Wireless Networks, Key Management, Secure Routing, Cooperation in
MANETs, Intrusion Detection Systems.
UNIT V
Sensor Network Platforms and Tools
Sensor Network Hardware, Sensor Network Programming Challenges, Node-Level Software
Platforms
Operating System - TinyOS
Imperative Language: nesC, Dataflow style language: TinyGALS, Node-Level Simulators, ns-2
and its sensor network extension, TOSSIM
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Ad Hoc and Sensor Networks - Theory and Applications, Carlos Corderio Dharma
P.Aggarwal, World Scientific Publications / Cambridge University Press, March 2006
2. Wireless Sensor Networks: An Information Processing Approach, Feng Zhao,
Leonidas Guibas, Elsevier Science imprint, Morgan Kauffman Publishers, 2005,
rp2009
212
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Adhoc Wireless Networks - Architectures and Protocols, C.Siva Ram Murthy,
B.S.Murthy, Pearson Education, 2004
2. Wireless Sensor Networks - Principles and Practice, Fei Hu, Xiaojun Cao,
AnAuerbach book, CRC Press, Taylor & Francis Group, 2010
3. Wireless Ad hoc Mobile Wireless Networks - Principles, Protocols and Applications,
Subir Kumar Sarkar, et al., Auerbach Publications, Taylor & Francis Group, 2008.
4. Ad hoc Networking. Charles E.Perkins, Pearson Education, 2001.
213
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
ELECTIVE – IV 3 1 3
(R11ITD1125) BUILDING ENTERPRISE APPLICATIONS
Course Objectives:
1. Define the Enterprise Architect’s roles, responsibilities and deliverables.
2. Identify non-functional requirements (NFRs) and describe common problems
and solutions.
3. Translate business requirements into an architecture.
4. How to weigh choices in architecting the client, web, business, integration and
data tiers and Apply various evaluation criteria to choosing architectural
elements and patterns, tools, servers and frameworks.
Course Outcomes:
1. Explore basic economic principles and practices (e.g supply and
demand, free enterprise)
2. Examine role of entrepreneurs in our society
3. Explore recent trends in small business growth
4. Describe the importance of marketing and List several ways in which
training can contribute to the development of human resources
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO- 2
1
Building
CO- 2
Enterprise
2
Applications
CO- 1
3
CO- 2
4
UNIT I
214
Introduction to enterprise applications and their types, software engineering methodologies, life
cycle of raising an enterprise application, introduction to skills required to build an enterprise
application, key determinants of successful enterprise applications, and measuring the success
of enterprise applications
UNIT II
Inception of enterprise applications, enterprise analysis, business modeling, requirements
elicitation, use case modeling, prototyping, non functional requirements, requirements
validation, planning and estimation
UNIT III
Concept of architecture, views and viewpoints, enterprise architecture, logical architecture,
technical architecture - design, different technical layers, best practices, data architecture and
design – relational, XML, and other structured data representations, Infrastructure architecture
and design elements - Networking, Internetworking, and Communication Protocols, IT
Hardware and Software, Middleware, Policies for Infrastructure Management, Deployment
Strategy, Documentation of application architecture and design
UNIT IV
Construction readiness of enterprise applications - defining a construction plan, defining a
package structure, setting up a configuration management plan, setting up a development
environment, introduction to the concept of Software Construction Maps, construction of
technical solutions layers, methodologies of code review, static code analysis, build and
testing, dynamic code analysis – code profiling and code coverage
UNIT V
Types and methods of testing an enterprise application, testing levels and approaches, testing
environments, integration testing, performance testing, penetration testing, usability testing,
globalization testing and interface testing, user acceptance testing, rolling out an enterprise
application.
TEXT BOOKS
1.Raising Enterprise Applications – Published by John Wiley, authored by Anubhav Pradhan,
Satheesha B. Nanjappa, Senthil K. Nallasamy, Veerakumar Esakimuthu
2.Building Java Enterprise Applications – Published by O'Reilly Media, authored by Brett
McLaughlin
REFERENCES
215
1. Software Requirements: Styles & Techniques – published by Addison-Wesley Professional.
2. Software Systems Requirements Engineering: In Practice – published by McGraw-
Hill/Osborne Media
3. Managing Software Requirements: A Use Case Approach, 2/e – published by Pearson
4. Software Architecture: A Case Based Approach – published by Pearson
216
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
ELECTIVE – IV 3 1 3
(R11ITD1126) E-COMMERCE
Course Objectives
1. Understand the nature and the scope of e-commerce in the realm of
modern business
2. Learn advantages and disadvantages of technology choices such as
merchant server software and electronic payment options
3. Explain the technologies required to make e-Commerce viable;
4. Know the resource Discovery information search and retrieval, e-
commerce catalogs and information filtering
5. Study the trends of multimedia concepts in e-Commerce and the use of
the Internet
Course Outcomes:
1. Understand the applications of Ecommerce and the framework
requirements of Ecommerce
2. Categorize the different types of payment types like E-payment systems,
smartcard, credit card and identify the risks involved in E-payment
system
3. To implement EDI, MIME and analyze the supply chain management
and interactive product catalogs
4. Analyze the marketing methods used in e-commerce and identify the
current drivers and inhibitors facing the business world in adopting and
using e-Commerce
5. Analyze and utilize the multimedia concepts like digital and desktop
video processing.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
E-Commerce
a b c d e f g h i j k l
217
CO-
2 1 2 2 2 1 2 2
1
CO-
1 2 2 2 1 1 1 2
2
CO-
2 2 2 1 2 2 1 2 2
3
CO-
2 2 2 2 1 2 1 2
4
CO-
1 2 1 2 2 1 2 2 2
5
UNIT -- I
Electronic Commerce-Frame work, anatomy of E-Commerce applications, E-Commerce
Consumer applications, E-Commerce organization applications, Consumer Oriented Electronic
commerce - Mercantile Process models.
UNIT - II
Electronic payment systems - Digital Token-Based, Smart Cards, Credit Cards, Risks in
Electronic Payment systems.
UNIT – III
Inter Organizational Commerce - EDI, EDI Implementation, Value added networks.
Intra Organizational Commerce - work Flow, Automation Customization and internal
Commerce, Supply chain Management.
UNIT – IV
Corporate Digital Library - Document Library, digital Document types, corporate Data
Warehouses. Advertising and Marketing - Information based marketing, Advertising on Internet,
on-line marketing process, market research, Consumer Search and Resource Discovery -
Information search and Retrieval,Commerce Catalogues, Information Filtering.
UNIT - V
Multimedia - key multimedia concepts, Digital Video and electronic Commerce, Desktop video
processings, Desktop video conferencing, broadband telecommunications, mobile & wireless
computing fundamentals.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Frontiers of Electronic commerce – Kalakata, Whinston, Pearson.
2. E-Commerce fundamentals and applications Hendry Chan, Raymond Lee, Tharam
Dillon, Ellizabeth Chang, John Wiley.
REFERENCES
1. E-Commerce, S.Jaiswal – Galgotia.
2. E-Commerce, Efrain Turbon, Jae Lee, David King, H.Michael Chang.
3. Electronic Commerce – Gary P.Schneider – Thomson.
218
4. E-Commerce – Business, Technology, Society, Kenneth C.Taudon, Carol Guyerico
Traver
219
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
ELECTIVE – IV 3 1 3
(R11ITD1127) STORAGE AREA NETWORKS
Course Objectives
1. Understand the necessity for storage area networks
2. Differentiate among storage models, and describe the benefits of SANs
3. Identify how to implement security measures in a SAN using zoning,
Logical Unit Number (LUN) masking, and virtualization
4. Identify components of a SAN and their roles
Course Outcomes:
1. Design, Implement or Manage storage in a SAN.
2. Investigate the architecture and components of a SAN and the
technological underpinnings that make SANs work.
3. Apply these concepts in a series of on-line design activities that employ
techniques such as Zoning to practice the consolidation of large amounts
of data in a secure and highly available environment.
4. Discuss on Audit accounts and the database system and Design to create
a Back-up and Restore database.
Course name Mapping of CO's with PO's
PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO-
a b c d e f g h i j k l
CO-
2 2 1
1
Storage Area CO-
2 2 1 1
Networks 2
CO-
1 2 1 1
3
CO-
1 1 2 1 1 2 1 2
4
Unit I:
Review data creation and the amount of data being created and understand the value of data
to a business, challenges in data storage and data management, Solutions available for data
storage, Core elements of a data center infrastructure, role of each element in supporting
business activities
220
Hardware and software components of the host environment, Key protocols and concepts used
by each component .Physical and logical components of a connectivity environment ,Major
physical components of a disk drive and their function, logical constructs of a physical disk,
access characteristics, and performance Implications.
Unit II:
Concept of RAID and its components , Different RAID levels and their suitability for different
application environments: RAID 0, RAID 1, RAID 3, RAID 4, RAID 5, RAID 0+1, RAID 1 +0,
RAID 6, Compare and contrast integrated and modular storage systems ,High-level
architecture and working of an intelligent storage system
Evolution of networked storage, Architecture, components, and topologies of FC-SAN, NAS,
and IP-SAN, Benefits of the different networked storage options, Understand the need for long-
term archiving solutions and describe how CAS fulfills the need , Understand the
appropriateness of the different networked storage options for different application
environments
Unit III:
List reasons for planned/unplanned outages and the impact of downtime,Impact of downtime,
Differentiate between business continuity (BC) and disaster recovery (DR) ,RTO and RPO,
Identify single points of failure in a storage infrastructure and list solutions to mitigate these
failures.
Architecture of backup/recovery and the different backup/recovery topologies , replication
technologies and their role in ensuring information availability and business continuity, Remote
replication technologies and their role in providing disaster recovery and business continuity
capabilities
Unit IV:
Identify key areas to monitor in a data center, Industry standards for data center monitoring and
management, Key metrics to monitor for different components in a storage infrastructure, Key
management tasks in a data center. Information security, Critical security attributes for
information systems, Storage security domains, List and analyzes the common threats in each
domain
Unit V:
Virtualization technologies, block-level and file-level virtualization technologies and processes.
Case Studies
The technologies described in the course are reinforced with EMC examples of actual
solutions.
Realistic case studies enable the participant to design the most appropriate solution for given
sets of criteria.
TEXTBOOKS:
1. EMC Corporation, Information Storage and Management, Wiley.
221
2. "Storage Networks: The Complete Reference”, Robert Spalding, Tata McGraw Hill,
Osborne,2003.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. "Building Storage Networks", Marc Farley, Tata McGraw Hill, Osborne, 2001.
2. Storage Area Network Fundamentals, Meeta Gupta, Pearson Education Limited, 2002.
222
