SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/r11/R11EEE.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE
AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
Electrical and Electronics Engineering
B.TECH. FOUR YEAR DEGREE COURSE
)
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2011-2012
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND
TECHNOLOGY
(AFFILIATED TO JNTUH)
An Autonomous Institute under JNTUH
Bachupally, Nizampet (S.O),
Hyderabad – 500090
Andhra Pradesh, India
1
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute under JNTUH
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS 2011 FOR B.TECH. DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for Students admitted from the academic year 2011-2012)
1. Courses of study
The following courses of study are offered at present for specialization for the B. Tech.
Course:
Branch Code Branch
01 Civil Engineering.
02 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
03 Mechanical Engineering
04 Electronics and Communication Engineering
05 Computer Science and Engineering.
10 Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
12 Information Technology
24 Automobile Engineering
1.1 EligibilityCriteria for Admission
The eligibility criteria for admission into engineering programmes shall be as
mentioned below:
The candidate shall be an Indian National.
The candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st December
of the academic year for which the admissions are being conducted.
The Candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or equivalent
as on the date of admission.
Seats in each programme in the Institution are classified into Category A and
CategoryB as per the G.Os.
2
1.1.1 Category –A Seats
These seats will be filled through counseling as per the rank at the Common
Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by the State Government and State
Government GOs as per other admission criteria laid down in the G.Os.
1.1.2 Category -B Seats
These seats will be filled by the institute as per the G.Os. Issued by State
Government from time to time.
1.1.3 Category: Lateral Entry
He candidates shall be admitted into the Third Semester, based on the rank
secured by the candidate at Engineering Common Entrance Test (ECET(FDH)) by
the Convener, ECET.
2. Distribution and Weightage of Marks
i. The performance of a student in each Semester shall be evaluated subject –wise
with a maximum of 100 marks for theory and 75 marks for practical subjects.
In addition, an Industry oriented mini-project, Seminar, Comprehensive viva-voce,
and Project Work shall be evaluated for 50, 50, 50 and 200 marksrespectively.
ii. For theory subjects the distribution shall be 30 marks for Internal Evaluationand
70 marks for the End-Examination.
For theory subjects, Two mid examinations will be conducted in each Semester
as per the academic calendar. Each mid examination is evaluated for 25 marks.
First mid examination should be conducted for 1 – 2 ½ Units of syllabus and the
second mid examination shall be conducted for 2 ½ -5 Units of syllabus. The mid
descriptive type exam paper consists of Section-A and Section-B.
Section-A[compulsory] consists of 5 short answer questions and each carries one
mark.
Section-B consists of 5 questions out of which 4 are to be answered and each
question carries 5 marks. The time duration of each mid examination is 90
minutes.
Two assignments are to be given to students covering the syllabus of first mid and
second Mid examinations and are evaluated for 5 marks each. .
The first assignment shall be submitted before first mid examinations and second
Assignment should be submitted before second mid examination.
At the end of the Semester Internal Marks Maximum 30 for the respective subjects
are allotted as follows:
(a) 25 marks for the better of the two mid term examinations
(b) 5 marks of the average of the two assignment marks
3
iii. For practical subjects there shall be a continuous evaluation during the Semester
for 25 internalmarks and 50 marks for end examination. Out of the 25 marks for
internal, day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be evaluated for 10 marks, and
10 marks for internal examination (two internal practical examinations will be
conducted and the better of the two examinations will be taken into account) and 5
marks for laboratory record.
NOTE: A student who is absent for any assignment/Mid term examination for any
reason what so ever shall be deemed to have secured ‘zero’ marks in the
test/examination and no makeup test/examination shall be conducted.
iv For the subjects having design and / or drawing, (such as Engineering Graphics,
Engineering Drawing, Machine Drawing, Production Drawing Practice, and
Estimation etc., the distribution shall be 30 marks for internal evaluation (15
marks for day-to-day work and 15 marks for internal tests (the better of the two
examinations will be taken into account) and 70 marks for end examination.
There shall be two internal testsin a Semester.
iv. There shall be an industry-oriented mini-Project, in collaboration with an industry
of their specialization, to be taken up during the vacation after III year II Semester
examination. The mini project shall be evaluated during the IV year I Semester.
The industry oriented mini project shall be submitted in report form and should be
presented before a committee, which shall be evaluated for 50 marks. The
committee consists of Head of the Department, the supervisor of mini project and a
senior faculty member of the department. There shall be no internal assessment
for industry oriented mini project.
vi. There shall be a Seminar presentation in IV year II Semester. For the Seminar,
the student shall collect the information on a specialized topic other than the project
topic and prepare a technical report, showing his understanding of the topic, and
submit to the department, which shall be evaluated by a Departmental committee
consisting of the Head of the department, Seminar supervisor and a senior faculty
member. The Seminar report shall be evaluated for 50 marks. There shall be no
external examination for Seminar.
vii. There shall be a Comprehensive Viva-Voce in IV year II Semester. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce will be conducted by a Committee consisting of the
Head of the Department and three Senior Faculty members of the Department.
The Comprehensive Viva-Voce is aimed to assess the student’s understanding in
various subjects studied during the B.Tech. course of study. The Comprehensive
Viva-Voce is evaluated for 50 marksby the Committee. There will be no internal
assessment for the Comprehensive viva-voce.
4
viii. The Project work shall be started by the student in the beginning of the IV year I
Semester. Out of a total of 200 marksfor the project work, 60 marks shall be for
Internal Evaluation and 140 marks for the Semester end Examination. The
Semester end Examination (viva-voce) shall be conducted by a committee
comprising of an external examiner, Head of the Department and the project
supervisor. The evaluation of project work shall be conducted at the end of the IV
year II Semester. The Internal Evaluation shall be on the basis of three
Seminars conducted during the IV year II Semester for 30 marks by the
committee consisting of Head of the Department, project supervisor and
senior faculty member of the Department and for 30 marks by the supervisor
of the project.
3. Semester end Examination
(a) Theory Courses
Each course is evaluated for 70 marks. Examination is of 3 hours duration.
Question papercontains two sections [Section-A and Section-B]
Section-A: Carries 30 marks [Five questions of one mark each, five questionsof
two marks each and another five questions of three marks each] which is
compulsory.
Section-B: carries 40 marks consisting of six essay type questions out of which
four questions to be answered, each carrying 10 marks.
Drawing related subjects, question paper contains 8 questions (atleast one
question from each unit), out of which the candidate has to answer any 5
questions, each carrying 14 marks.
(b) Practical Courses
Each lab course is evaluated for 50 marks. The examination shall be conducted by
the laboratory teacher and another senior teacher concerned with the subject of
the same/otherdepartment/Industry. The external examiner may be appointed by
the Chief Superintendent in consultation with HOD as and when required.
(c ) Supplementary Examinations
Supplementary examinations will be conducted along with regular Semester end
examinations. (During even Semester regular examinations, supplementary
examinations of odd Semester and during odd Semester regular examinations,
supplementary examinations ofeven Semester will be conducted).
4. Attendance Requirements
i. A student shall be eligibleto appear for the Semester end examinations if he acquires a
minimum of 75% of attendance in aggregate of all the subjects for Semester /
year.
5
ii. Condonationof shortage of attendance in aggregate up to 10% (65% and above
and below 75%)in a Semester may be granted by Institute Academic Committee.
iii. A student will not be permitted to write the end examination and hence not promoted to
the next Semester unless he satisfies the attendance requirement of the present
Semester, as applicable. They may seek re-admission for that Semester when offered
next.
iv. Shortage of Attendance below 65% in aggregateshall in NO case be condoned.
v. Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned in any Semester are not eligible
to take their end examination of that Semester.
vi. A stipulated fee shall be payable towards condonation of shortage of attendance.
5. Minimum Academic Requirements
The following academic requirements have to be satisfied in addition to the attendance
requirements mentioned in item No.4.
i. A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic requirements and
earned the credits allotted to each theory or practical design or drawing subject or
project, if he secures not less than 35% (25 out of 70 marks)of marks in the end
examination and a minimum of 40% of marks in the sum total of the internal
evaluation and end examination taken together.
ii. A student shall be promoted from II to III year only if he fulfils the academic
requirement of 37 credits from Two regular and one supplementary examinations
of I year I Semester and One Regular and One Supplementary exam of I year II
Semester, and one regular examination of II year I Semester irrespective of
whether the candidate takes the examination or not.
iii. A student shall be promoted from III year to IV year only if he fulfils the academic
requirements of total 62 credits from the following examinations, whether the
candidate takes the examinations or not.
 Three regular and Two supplementary examinations of I B Tech I Semester.
 Two regular and two Supplementary examinations for I B Tech II Semester
 Two regular and one supplementary examinations up to the end of II year I
Semester.
 One regular and one supplementary examinations of II year II Semester.
 One regular examination of III year I Semester.
6
iv. A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 200 credits
and earn the 200 credits. Marks obtained in all 200 credits shall be considered for the
calculation of percentage of marks.
v. Students who fail to earn 200 credits as indicated in the course structure within eight
academic yearsfrom the year of their admission shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech.
course and their admission shallstand get cancelled.
6. Course pattern
i. The entire course of study is of four academic years. All the I, II, III and IV years
are of Semester pattern .
ii. A student eligible to appear for the end examination in a subject, but absent or has
failed in the end examination may reappear for that subject at the supplementary
examination whenever conducted.
iii. When a student is detained due to shortage of attendance in any Semester, he
may be re-admitted into that Semester when it is offered next, with the academic
regulations of the batch into which he gets readmitted.
iv. When a student is detained due to lack of credits in any year, he may be eligible to
be promoted or for promotion into the next year after fulfillment of the academic
requirements, with the academic regulations of the batch into which he gets
admitted
7. Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
A student will be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. Degree if he/she fulfils
the following academic regulations:
I. Pursueda course of study for not less than four academic years and not more
than eight academic years.
ii. Registered for 200 creditsand secured 200 credits.
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award of the
degree within eight academic years from the year of their admission, shall forfeit their
seat in B.Tech. Course.
Iii After a student has satisfied the requirements prescribed for the completion of
the program and iseligible for the award of B. Tech. Degree he shall be placed in
one of the following four classes:
7
Class Awarded % of marks to be secured
First Class with Distinction 70% and above
First Class Below 70% but not less than 60%
From the aggregate
Second Class Below 60% but not less than 50% marks secured for
the 200 Credits.
Pass Class Below 50% but not less than 40%
Fail Below 40%
(The marks in internal evaluation and end examination shall be shown separately in the marks
memorandum).
8. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to College, or if any case of indiscipline is pending
against him, the result of the candidate may be withheld and he will not be allowed
to go into the next higher Semester. The award or issue of the Degree may also be
withheld in such cases.
9. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or
any other academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and when
they become eligible. They have to take up Equivalent subjects, as substitute
subject in place of repetition of subjects as decided by the Institute Academic
Committee.
10. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each Semester shall be 90 clear instruction
days.
11. There shall be no branch transfersafter the completion of admission process.
12. The decision of the Institute Academic Committee will be final in respect of
equivalent subjects for those students who are transferred from other
colleges. The procedure for permitting students to transfer from other
colleges will be decided by the principal / Institute Academic Committee
keeping the Government Rules concerned in view.
8
13. General
i. Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include “she”, “her”,
“hers”.
ii. The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
iii. In the case of any doubt or ambiguity in the interpretation of the above rules, the
decision of the Principal is final.
iv. In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arises in the above rules and
regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
v. The College may change or amend any or all of the academic regulations or syllabi at
any time and the changes or amendments made shall be applicable to all the students
concerned with effect from the dates notified by the College.
14. Academic Regulations for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2012-2013)
(i) A student shall register for all 150 credits and earn all the 150 credits. Marks
obtained in all 150 credits shall be considered for the calculation of the class.
(ii) A student who fails to earn 150 credits as indicated in the course structure
within six academic years from the year of their admission shall forfeit their
seat in B.Tech. programme and their admission stands cancelled.
(iii) The same attendance regulations are adopted as that of B.Tech. Four year
degree course.
(iv) A student shall be promoted from third year to fourth year only on fulfilling the
academic requirements of securing 37 credits from the following
examinations.
a. Two regular and one supplementary examination of II year I Semester
b. One regular and one supplementary examination of II year II Semester
c. One regular examination of III year I Semester.
Irrespective of whether the candidate appears the Semester-End examination or not as
per the normal course of study and in case of getting detained for want of credits the
student may make up the credits through supplementary exams of the above exams
before the date of commencement of class work for IV year I Semester.
(v) Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
After a student has satisfied the requirements prescribed for the completion of the
program and is eligible for the award of B. Tech. Degree he shall be placed in one
of the following four classes:
9
Class Awarded % of marks to be secured
First Class with Distinction 70% and above
First Class Below 70% but not less than 60%
From the aggregate
Second Class Below 60% but not less than 50% marks secured for
the 150 Credits.
Pass Class Below 50% but not less than 40%
(i.e., II year to IV
year)
Fail Below 40%
(The marks in internal evaluation and end examination shall be shown separately in the marks
memorandum)
(vi) All other regulations as applicable to B.Tech. four year degree course will hold
good for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme).
10
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
B. TECH ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11MTH1101 Mathematics –I 3 1 3
R11MTH1102 Mathematics-II 3 1 3
R11PHY1101 Engineering Physics-I 3 0 3
R11HAS1101 English 3 0 3
R11CSE1101 Computer Programming 3 0 3
R11MED1105 Engineering Drawing 3 3 4
R11HAS1201 English Language Communication Skills 0 3 2
Laboratory-I
R11CSE1201 Computer Programming Laboratory 0 3 2
R11MED1202 Workshop Practice 0 3 2
Total 18 14 25
11
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11EEE1101 Circuit Theory 4 0 4
R11MTH1104 Numerical Analysis andLinear 3 1 3
Programming
R11PHY1102 Engineering Physics-II 3 0 3
R11CHE1101 Engineering Chemistry 3 0 3
R11CSE1102 Data Structures 3 0 3
R11CED1109 Environmental Studies 3 0 3
R11CSE1202 Data Structures Laboratory 0 3 2
R11EPC1201 Engineering Physics andEngineering 0 3 2
Chemistry Laboratory
R11HAS1202 English Language Communication Skills 0 3 2
Laboratory-II
Total 19 10 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
B. TECH ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11MTH1103 Mathematics –III 3 1 3
R11MED1162 Fundamentals of Fluid Mechanics and 3 1 3
TurboMachinery
R11EEE1102 ElectroMagnetic Field Theory 3 1 3
R11EEE1103 Electrical Machines –I 4 1 4
R11ECE1102 Electronic Devices andCircuits 4 1 4
R11EEE1104 Network Analysis 4 1 4
R11EEE1201 Electrical Circuits andSimulation Laboratory 0 3 2
R11MED1212 Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulic Machinery 0 3 2
Laboratoryand Electronic Devices
Laboratory
Total 21 12 25
13
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11ECE1103 Switching Theory and Logic Design 4 0 4
R11EEE1106 Control Systems 3 1 3
R11HAS1102 Business Economics and Financial Analysis 4 0 4
R11EEE1107 Power Systems-I 3 1 3
R11ECE1131 Electronic Circuits 3 1 3
R11EEE1108 Electrical Machines –II 4 1 4
R11EEE1204 Electrical Machines –I Laboratory 0 3 2
R11ECE1209 Electronic Circuits Laboratory 0 3 2
Total 21 10 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
14
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
B. TECH ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
III YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11ECE1108 Microprocessors andMicro Controllers 4 0 4
R11EIE1106 Linear and Digital IC Applications 4 0 4
R11EEE1109 Power Systems-II 3 1 3
R11EEE1110 Power Electronics 4 0 4
R11EEE1111 Electrical Machines –III 4 1 4
R11ECE1204 Microprocessors andMicrocontrollers 0 3 2
Laboratory
R11EEE1205 Electrical Machines –II Laboratory 0 3 2
R11EEE1206 Control Systems and Simulation Laboratory 0 3 2
Total 19 11 25
15
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
III YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11HAS1103 Management Science 4 0 4
R11EEE1112 Power Semi Conductor Drives 4 1 4
R11EEE1113 Electrical Measurements andInstrumentation 3 1 3
R11EEE1114 Power System Analysis 4 1 4
R11EEE1115 Switchgear andProtection 4 1 4
R11EEE1207 Electrical Measurements Laboratory 0 3 2
R11EEE1208 Power Electronics and Simulation Laboratory 0 3 2
R11HAS1204 Advanced English Language Communication 0 3 2
Skills Laboratory
Total 19 13 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
16
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
B. TECH ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
IV YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11EEE1116 Power System Operation and control 3 1 3
R11ECE1109 Digital Signal Processing 4 1 4
Elective –I
R11EEE1117 Electrical Distribution Systems
R11EEE1118 Reliability Engineering and Applications to
Power Systems 4 0 4
R11MED1163 Optimization Techniques
R11EEE1119 Neural Networks andFuzzy Logic
Elective –II
R11EEE1120 Special Electrical Machinesand Control
R11ECE1110 VLSI Design
R11EEE1121 Power Plant Instrumentation and Control 4 0 4
R11EEE1122 High Voltage Engineering
Elective –III
R11EEE1123 HVDC Transmission
R11EEE1124 Linear System Analysis
4 0 4
R11CSE1114 Object Oriented Programming
R11CSE1110 Database Management Systems
R11EEE1209 Power Systemsand Simulation Laboratory 0 3 2
R11ECE1208 Digital Signal Processing Laboratory 0 3 2
R11EEE1301 Industry Oriented Mini Project 0 8 2
Total 19 16 25
*T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
17
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
B. TECH ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
IV YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11EEE1125 Utilization of Electrical Energy 3 1 3
Elective –IV
R11EEE1126 Advanced Control Systems
R11EEE1133 Electrical Engineering Materials
3 1 3
R11EEE1127 EHV AC Transmission
R11EEE1128 Renewable Energy Sources
Elective –V
R11EEE1129 Modern Power Electronics
R11EEE1130 Flexible A.C. Transmission Systems 3 1 3
R11EIE1124 Programmable Logic Controllers
R11ECE1132 Embedded Systems
R11EEE1302 Seminar 0 3 2
R11EEE1303 Comprehensive Viva Voce 0 0 2
R11EEE1304 ProjectWork 6 12 12
Total 15 18 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
18
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
I Year B.Tech ECE,EEE,EIE –I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MTH1101) MATHEMATICS –I
(Advanced Calculus)
UNIT I
Elementary analysis
Sequences and series - convergence and divergence, ratio test, comparison test, integral
test, Cauchy’s root test, Raabe’s test (statements only for the tests), and absolute and
conditional convergence.
Mean value theorems (statements only) - Rolle’s theorem, Lagrange’s theorem, Cauchy’s
theorem, and generalized mean value theorem (Taylor’s Theorem).
UNIT II
Functions of several variables
Partial differentiation; Functional dependence; Jacobian; Maxima andMinima of functions of
two variables with constraints and without constraints.
Radius of curvature; Centre and circle of curvature –evolutes and envelopes.
UNIT III
Improper integrals and special functions
Improper Integrals; Beta, Gamma, and Error functions -Properties and simple applications.
UNIT IV
Curve tracing, applications of integration and multiple integrals
Curve tracing –Cartesian, polar, and parametric curves; Applications of integration to lengths,
volumes and surface areas in cartesian and polar coordinates.
Multiple integrals - double and triple integrals, change of variables, and change of order of
integration.
UNIT-V
Vector calculus
Introduction to vector and scalar functions; gradient, curl, divergence, and their related
properties of sums and products; Laplacian and second order operators; Vector integration -
line integral, work done, potential function; Area, surface, and volume integrals; Statements of
Vector integral theorems and their verification (without proofs) - Green’s theorem, Stoke’s
theorem, and Gauss divergence theorem.
19
TEXT BOOKS
1. Calculus and Analytic Geometry - Thomas and Finney, 9th edition, Pearson
Education.
REFERENCES
1. Elementary Analysis: The Theory of Calculus - Kenneth Ross, Springer.
2. Principles of Mathematical Analysis - Walter Rudin, 3rdedition, Paperbac,1976.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics - Erwin Kreyszig, 8thedition, John Wiley.
4. Calculus -Tom M. Apostol, Volume1 and Volume 2, 2ndedition, John Wiley,2003.
5. Schaum’s Outline of Vector Analysis - Murray R. Spiegel, 2nd edition, Tata
McGraw Hill 2011.
20
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
I Year B.Tech ECE,EEE,EIE –I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MTH1102)MATHEMATICS –II
(Linear Algebra and Ordinary Differential Equations)
LINEAR ALGEBRA
UNIT I
Solution of linear systems
Matrices and linear systems of equations - elementary row transformations, Rank Echelon
form, and normal form; Solution of linear systems - direct methods - LU decomposition, LU
decomposition from Gauss elimination, and solution of Tri-diagonal systems; Eigen values,
eigen vectors, and their properties -Liner dependence and independence; Cayley-Hamilton
theorem - inverse and powers of a matrix by Cayley-Hamilton theorem, diagonalization of a
matrix, calculation of powers of a matrix; Modal and spectral matrices.
UNIT II
Linear transformations
Real matrices - symmetric, skew symmetric, and orthogonal linear transformation; Complex
matrices -Hermitian, Skew-Hermitian and unitary matrices; Eigen values and eigen vectors
of complex matrices and their properties; Quadratic forms - reduction of quadratic form to
canonical form, rank, positive, negative definite, semi definite, index, signature, Sylvester law,
and singular value decomposition.
ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
UNIT III
Ordinary differential equations and their applications
Differential equations of first order and first degree - Linear, Bernoulli and exact differential
equation; Applications of differential equations of first order and first degree -Newton’s law of
cooling, Law of natural growth and decay, Orthogonal trajectories, and basic circuits.
UNIT IV
Differential equations of higher order and their applications
Differential equations of higher order -homogeneous and non-homogenous type, differential
equations of second order and higher order with constant coefficients with right hand side
ax ax
term of the type e , sin (ax), cos (ax), polynomials in x, e V(x), x V(x), and method of
variation of parameters; Applications to bending of beams; Mechanical systems - Simple
harmonic motion.
21
UNIT V
Linear differential equations and qualitative methods
Cauchy’s linear differential equation; Legendre’s differential equations; Simultaneous linear
differential equations; The phase plane; Phase portraits and direction fields; Critical points
and stability.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics - R.K Jain and S.R.K Iyengar, 3rd edition, Narosa
Publications, 2011.
2. Differential Equations - Dennis G. Zill, Cengage learning, 2011.
REFERENCES
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics -Erwin Kreyszig, 8thedition, John Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics - Peter V. O’Neil, 9thEdition, Cengage Learning.
3. Elementary Differential Equations and Boundary Value Problems -William E. Boyce and
Richard C. Diprima ,Wiley.
4. Linear Algebra and its applications -David C Clay, Pearson Education.
5. Differential Equations, with Applications and Historical Notes -George F. Simmons and
John S. Robertson, 2ndEdition,Tata McGraw Hill, 2008.
6. Advanced Engineering Mathematics -Dennis G. Zill, Warren S. Wright, and Michael R.
Cullen, 4thedition,Jones & Bartlett Learning.
22
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
I Year B.Tech ECE,EEE,EIE –I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11PHY1101)ENGINEERING PHYSICS-I
UNIT –I
INTERFERENCE AND DIFFRACTION: Superposition principle, resultant amplitude,
coherence, methods to obtain coherent sources, interference, Young’s double slit experiment,
interference in thin films by reflection, Newton’s rings Experiment, Distinguish between
Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction, diffraction at single slit (Qualitative and
Quantitative(Phasors approach)), double slit, circular aperture, and multiple slits (grating)(
Qualitative Approach). Resolution of spectral lines, Rayleigh criterion, resolving power of
grating and telescope.
UNIT -II
POLARIZATION: Polarization phenomenon, Brewster’s Law and Malus law, examples, types
of polarization, double refraction, Nicol prism, Quarter and Half wave plates
LASERS: Characteristics of Lasers – Spontaneous and Stimulated Emission of radiation,
meta stable state, population inversion, lasing action, Einstein’s coefficients and relation
between them ––Ruby Laser –Helium-Neon Laser –Carbon dioxide laser -Semiconductor
Laser –Applications of lasers.
UNIT -III
FIBER OPTICS: Principle of optical fiber – Acceptance angle and acceptance cone –
Numerical aperture –- Types of fibers and refractive index profiles –Qualitativeanalysis of
attenuation in optical fibers –Application of optical fibers.
CRYSTAL STRUCTURES: Space lattice –Unit cell –Lattice parameter –Crystal systems –
Bravais lattices Atomic radius – Co-ordination number - Structures and Packing fractions of
Simple Cubic – Body Centered Cubic – Face Centered Cubic crystals – Hexagonal closed
packed crystals -Structures of diamond, NaCl.
UNIT -IV
DIRECTIONS, PLANES AND X-RD: Miller Indices for Crystal planes and directions – Inter
planar spacing of orthogonal crystal systems –Diffraction of X-rays by crystal planes and
Bragg’s law–Laue method –Powder method –Applications of X-ray diffraction
BONDING IN SOLIDS: Force and energy between two approaching atoms, primary and
secondary bonds, binding energy and cohesive energy, Madelung constant, cohesive energy
and Madelung constant for NaCl crystal.
DEFECTS IN SOLIDS: Imperfections in crystals – Point defects (Vacancies, Interstitial and
Impurities) Schottky and Frenkel defects –(with mathematical treatment)-Line imperfections
– Edge and Screw dislocation – Burger vector – Surface defects and volume defects
(Qualitative Treatment).
23
UNIT -V
SURFACE PHYSICS: Surface Electronic structure( work function, thermionic emission,
surface states, tangential surface transport), Electron Microscope, Scanning Tunneling
Microscope.
SCIENCE and TECHNOLOGY OF NANOMATERIALS:Origin of nanotechnology – (Basic
principles of Nanoscience andTechnology) surface to volume ratio, quantum confinement –
Fabrication of nano materials Bottom up fabrication: sol-gel andcombustion methods –Top
down fabrication: CVDandPVD methods–Characterization (XRD andTEM) -Applications of
nanotechnology.
TEXT BOOKS:
(1) Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel : John Wiley andSons
(2) Physics vol.2, by Halliday, Resnick and Krane; John Wiley andSons
(3) Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd.
(4) Optics by Ghatak and Thyagarajan, Tata Mc Graw
REFERENCE BOOKS:
(1) Engineering Physics by R.K.Gaur and S.L.Gupta; Dhanpat Rai and Sons
(2) Solid State Physics by S.O.Pillai
(3) Engineering Physics by M Chandra Shekar and P. Appala Naidu, VGS Book links.
(4) Solid State Physics by A.J.Dekker; Macmillan Publishers India Ltd.
(5) Solid State Physics by N.W.Ashcroft andN.David Merwin. Thomson Learning
(6) Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
(7) Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
(8) Introduction to Optical Communication by G. Keiser
(9) Fundamentals of Molecular Spectroscopy by Banwell, Tata McGraw Hill
24
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
I Year B.Tech ECE,EEE,EIE –I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11HAS1101)ENGLISH
Introduction
This is the age of information and communication technologies. Engineers and technical
professionals need to convey technical information in English for various purposes.
Besides learning general English as an international language, engineering students need to
be equipped with adequate writing ability so that they can communicate technical information
clearly on at least a basic level. A good English writing proficiency can be a contributing factor
to professional recognition and career prospects. This course teaches those writing strategies
that scientists, engineers, and others will need in order to write successfully on the job. It
initiates the students into Technical Writing. The purposes of technical writing are to inform
and persuade. This program aims to train students in writing clear, concise and effective
English.
Thissyllabus is therefore, a Pragmatic English Writing Program for engineering students with
intermediate proficiency. The program covers asyllabus outline and instructional approaches
on basic writing skills with particular reference to technical writing.
Objectives:
i) To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for advanced writing and
speaking.
ii) To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns and
grammatical constructions required of in technical writing.
iii) To acquaint the students with the writing process, beginning with paragraph
writing. This would prepare them for academic and workplace writing.
iv) Equip the students with Oral Communication Skills.
Methodology
A Task-based, process oriented methodology will be used by the teachers to give apractical
orientation to the teaching of language. An inductive approach will be used to demonstrate the
use of language in context. This should enable the students to internalize the language
structures and vocabulary used in context. Students will be exposed to numerous examples
and ample practice will be given in the contextual use of language structures.
Syllabus Outline
Unit I : Prose
1. Heaven’s Gate by Pico Iyer
2. The Connoisseur by Nergis Dalal
25
Unit II : Basic Grammar
i) Common Errors v)Use of Articles and Prepositions
ii) Subject-Verb Agreement vi) Conjunctions
iii) Adverbs vii) pronoun reference
iv) Transitional elements
Unit III Reading and Writing Skills
i) Reading Comprehension vi) Synonyms and Antonyms
ii) ParagraphWriting vii) One Word Substitutes
iii) Letter Writing viii) Prefixes and Suffixes
iv) Memo Writing ix) Idioms and Phrases
v) Words often Confused
Unit IV : Prose
1. The Cuddalore Experience by Anu George
2. The Odds Against Us by Satyajit Ray
Unit V : Technical Writing Component
A. Definition of a Technical Term
B. Description of a Mechanism
C. Description of a Technical Process
D. Classification
E. Cause and Effect
F. Comparison and Contrast
G. Analogy
Prescribed Text Books
1. Effective Technical Communication, Ashraf Rizvi
2. Technical Communication : Principles and Practices, M. Raman and S. Sharma,
OUP, 2004. (Indian Edition)
References
1. Technical Writing Process and Product , Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson :.
3rdedition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
2. Composition Practice ,Blanton, L.L. 1993;, Book 4 ,Second Edition, Heinle and
Heinle Publishers, pp. 54
3. Course inAnalytical Writing for Science and Technology Georges, T.M. 1996 A,
http://www.mspiggy.etl.noaa.gov/write/
4. Oxford English for Electrical and Mechanical Engineering, Glendinning, E.H. and
Glendinning, N. 1995; Oxford University Press, pp.28,68,83
26
5. Summary Writing and Sentence Structure in the Advanced ESL Classroom, The
Internet TESL Journal, Greaney, G.L. 1997; Less is More: Vol.III, No.9
http://iteslj.org/Techniques/Greaney-Writing.html
6. Handbook for Technical Communication ,Neufeld, J.K. 1987; A, Prentice-Hall, Inc.
pp.20,65-68
7. Principles of Course Design for Language Teaching, Yalden, J. 1987; Cambridge
University Press
8. Guide to Writing as an Engineer, David F. Beer and David McMurrey, 2nd ed.,
Wiley, 2004,ISBN: 0471430749.
9. Applied Writing for Technicians, Dale Jungk, McGraw-Hill, 2005, ISBN 0-07-
828357-4.
10. Pocket Style Manual, Diane Hacker,Bedford/St. Martin's, 2003, ISBN: 0312406843.
27
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
I Year B.Tech ECE,EEE,EIE –I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11CSE1101)COMPUTER PROGRAMMING
UNIT-I
Introduction to Computers – Computer Systems, Computing Environments (DOS/Linux),
Computer languages, Linux commands , creating and running programs, Software
Development Methods, Algorithms, Pseudo code, flow charts, applying the software
development method.
UNIT -II
Introduction to C Language – History, Simple C Programme, Identifiers, Basic data types,
Variables, Constants, type qualifiers, Input / Output, Operators. Expressions, Precedence and
Associativity, Expression Evaluation, Type conversions, Bit wise operators, Statements,
Simple C Programming examples.
Selection Statements –if and switch statements, Repetition statements –while, for, do-while
statements, Loop examples, other statements related to looping –break, continue, go to, C
Programming examples.
UNIT -III
Designing Structured Programs, Functions- basics, user defined functions, inter function
communication, Standard functions, Scope, Storage classes-auto, register, static, extern,
scope rules, recursive functions, example C programs.
Arrays –Basic concepts, one-dimensional arrays, two –dimensional arrays, multidimensional
arrays, arrays to functions, C program examples.
Strings – Basic concepts, String Input / Output functions, arrays of strings, string handling
functions, strings to functions, C programme examples.
UNIT -IV
Derived types – Structures – Basic concepts, nested structures, arrays of structures,
structures and functions, unions, typedef, bit fields, enumerated types, C programming
examples.
Pointers – Basic concepts, pointers and functions, pointers and strings, pointers and arrays,
pointers and structures, self referential structures , example C programs.
UNIT -V
File I/O –Basic concepts, text files and binary files, file input / output operations, file status
functions (error handling), C program examples.
Preprocessor Directives, Dynamic MemoryAllocation, Command-Line Arguments.
28
TEXT BOOKS
1. C programming A Problem-Solving Approach by Behrouz
A.Forouzan,E.V.Prasad,Richard F.Gilberg
2. The C Programming Language by Brian W. Kernighan, Dennis M. Ritchie
REFERENCES
1. Let Us C Yashavant kanetkar BPB
2. C How to Program Paul Deitel and Harvey Deitel , PH
3. Absolute beginner's guide to C, Greg M. Perry, Edition 2,Publisher: Sams
Pub., 1994
29
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
I Year B.Tech ECE,EEE,EIE –I Sem L T/P/D C
3 3 4
(R11MED1105)ENGINEERING DRAWING
UNIT –I
Introduction to engineering graphics – construction of ellipse, parabola and hyperbola –
cycloidal curves.
UNIT –II
Orthographic projections of points, lines and planes –axis inclined to one planes and inclined
to both the planes.
UNIT –III
Orthographic projections of solids:
Cylinder, cone, prism, pyramid and sphere positions and axis inclined to both the planes.
UNIT –IV
Isomeric projections of lines, planes and simplesolids.
UNIT –V
Conversion of orthographic views into isometric views and vice-versa.
TEXT BOOKS :
1. Engineering drawings By N.D.Bhatt.
2 Engineering graphics By K.L. Narayana andP.Kannayya.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering drawing and graphics: Venugopal/ New age
2. Engineering drawing : Johle / TMH
30
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
I Year B.Tech ECE,EEE,EIE –I Sem L T/P/ D C
0 3 2
(R11HAS1201)ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY-I
The English language Communication Skills Laboratoryaims to provide practice in all the four
skills of LSRW, and provide ample practice in listening and speaking skills.
Syllabus for LaboratorySessions
Unit 1
Multimedia Laboratory
1. Phonetics
2. Listening Comprehension
3. Vocabulary Lesson 1
Oral Communication Skills Laboratory: Self Introduction ; E-mail
Unit 2
Multimedia Laboratory
1. Grammar ---Nouns and Pronouns; The Present Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 2
3. Listening Skills
Oral Communication Skills Laboratory: Role Play/ Situational Dialogues
Unit 3
Multimedia Laboratory
1. Telephoning Skills
2. Grammar ---Articles; The Past Tense
3. Vocabulary Lesson 3
Oral Communication Skills Laboratory: JAM/ Short Talk
Unit 4
Multimedia Laboratory
1. Grammar ----Concord; The Future Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 4
3. Listening Comprehension
Oral Communication Skills Laboratory: Information Transfer
Unit 5
Multimedia Laboratory
1. Grammar --- Adjectives, adverbs, conjunctions
2. Vocabulary --Lesson 5
31
Oral Communication Skills Laboratory : Presentation Skills
Multimedia LaboratoryRequirements
The English Language Laboratoryshall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Laboratoryfor 60 students with 60 systems, one master
console,
LAN facility and English language software for self-study by learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Laboratorywith movable chairs and audio-visual aids with a
P.A System,a T. V., a digital stereo –audio andvideo system and camcorder etc.
System Requirement (Hardware component):
Computer network with Lan with minimum 60 multimedia systems with the following
specifications:
iv) P –IV Processor
a) Speed –2.8 GHZ
b) RAM –512 MB Minimum
c) Hard Disk –80 GB
v) Headphones of High quality
5. Suggested Software:
The software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above should be procured and
used.
Suggested Software:
 Clarity Pronunciation Power –part II
 Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
 DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill Practice.
 Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
 TOEFL andGRE(KAPLAN, AARCO andBARRONS, USA, CrackingGRE by
CLIFFS)
Multimedia LaboratoryRequirements
Minimum Requirement:
The English Language Laboratoryshall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Laboratoryfor 60 students with 60 systems, one master
console,
LAN facility and English language software for self-study by learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Laboratorywith movable chairs and audio-visual aids with a
P.A
System,a T. V., a digital stereo –audio andvideo system and camcorder etc.
System Requirement (Hardware component):
Computer network with Lan with minimum 60 multimedia systems with the following
specifications:
32
iv) P –IV Processor
a) Speed –2.8 GHZ
b) RAM –512 MB Minimum
c) Hard Disk –80 GB
v) Headphones of High quality
5. Suggested Software:
The software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above should be procured and
used.
Suggested Software:
Clarity Pronunciation Power –part II
Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill Practice.
Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
TOEFL and GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO and BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE by
CLIFFS)
33
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
I Year B.Tech ECE,EEE,EIE –I Sem L T/P/ D C
0 3 2
(R11MED1202)WORKSHOP PRACTICE
(10 + 6 Weeks)
TRADES FOR EXCERCISES
At least two exercises from each trade:
1. Carpentry
2. Tin-Smithy
3. Fitting
4. Welding
5. Electrical Wiring
1. Computer Hardware: Identification of Parts, Assembling and disassembling Simple
diagnostic exercises -
2. Installation of Operating System: Windows , Linux – Basic Commands Simple
diagnostic exercises .
TEXT BOOKS
1. Work shop Manual -P.Kannaiah/ K.L.Narayana, Scitech Publishers.
2. Workshop Manual by Venkat Reddy.
3. Engineering Workshop Practice –V Ramesh Babu, VRB Publishers Pvt. Ltd.
4. IT Essentials PC Hardware and Software Companion Guide Third Edition by Davis
Anfinson and Ken Quamme –CISCO Press, Pearson Education.
3. PC Hardware and A+ Handbook –Kate J. Chase PHI(Microsoft)
34
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
I Year B.Tech ECE,EEE,EIE –I Sem L T/P/ D C
0 3 2
(R11CSE1201)COMPUTER PROGRAMMING LABORATORY
Week 1
1. WAP that reads three different integers from the keyboard and prints – sum, average,
product, smallest, largest of the numbers.
2. WAP that reads two integers and prints –difference, quotient and remainder
3. WAP that reads two integers and determines whether the first is a multiple of the other
Week 2
1.Write a C program to find the sum of individual digits of a positive integer.
2.Write a program to generate Fibonacci sequence (1, 1 ,2, 3, 5, 8,…)
3.Write a C program to generate all the prime numbers between
1 and n, where n is a value supplied by the user.
Week 3
1. Write a C program to calculate the following Sum: Sum=1-x2/2! +x4/4!-x6/6!+x8/8!-
x10/10!
2. Write a C program to find the roots of a quadratic equation.
Week 4
1. Write a C program, which takes two integer operands and one operator from the user,
performs the operation and then prints the result. (Consider the operators +,-,*, /, % and
use Switch Statement)
2. Write a C program to generate Pascal’s triangle.
3. Write a C program to construct a pyramids of numbers
Week 5
1 WAP to print a given number [0-1000] in words. For example, 123 as One Hundred
and Twenty Three
2 WAP to check whether a given number is an Armstrong, Palindrome, Perfect, Prime,
or a Fibonacci prime Number
3 Write a C program to find both the largest and smallest number in a list of integers
Week 6
1. Implementation of functions categories.
2. Write C programs that use both recursive and non-recursive functions
i) To find the factorial of a given integer.
ii) To find the GCD (greatest common divisor) of two given integers.
35
Week 7
1. Write a C program to calculate
i) Minimum and maximum of an 1-d array
ii) Sorting and Searching of 1-D array
iii) Addition and Multiplication of Two Matrices
Week 8
1. Programs on String handling functions-Copying, reverse, substring, concatenation.
2. Programs on structure and unions.
Week 9
Midterm exam
Week 10
Programs using pointers-pointer basic operations, pointers and functions
Week 11
Program on pointers and structures, Pointers and arrays, pointers and strings.
Week 12
Implementation of fileoperations and error handling.
Week 13
Implementation of Dynamic memory allocation
Week 14
Programs using command line arguments.
Week 15
Implementation of preprocessor directives
Week 16
Internal LaboratoryExam
36
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
I Year B.Tech ECE,EEE,EIE –II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11EEE1101) CIRCUIT THEORY
Objective:
This course introduces the basic concepts of circuit analysis which is the foundation for all
subjects of the Electrical Engineering discipline. The emphasis of this course is laid on the
basic analysis of circuits which includes Magnetic circuits, Single phase circuits, Resonance,
Network topology and Theorems.
UNIT–I Introduction to Electrical Circuits
Circuit Concept – R-L-C parameters – Voltage and Current sources – Independent and
dependent sources-Source transformation – Voltage – Current relationship for passive
elements (for different input signals-square, ramp, saw tooth, triangular). Kirchhoff’s laws –
network reduction techniques – series, parallel, series parallel, star-to-delta or delta-to-star
transformation.
UNIT–II Magnetic Circuits
Magnetic Circuits –Faraday’s laws of electromagnetic induction –concept of self and mutual
inductance –dot convention –coefficient of coupling –composite magnetic circuit -Analysis
of series and parallel magnetic circuits
UNIT–III Single Phase A.C Circuits
R.M.S and Average values and form factor for different periodic wave forms, Steady state
analysis of R, L and C (in series, parallel and series parallel combinations) with sinusoidal
excitation – Concept of Reactance, Impedance, Susceptance and Admittance – Phase and
Phase difference –concept of power factor, Real and Reactive powers –J-notation, Complex
and Polar forms of representation, Complex power.
UNIT-IV Locus diagrams and Resonance
Locus diagrams – series R-L, R-C, R-L-C and parallel combination with variation of various
parameters –Resonance –series, parallel circuits, concept of band width and Q factor.
UNIT–V Network topology and Network theorems
Definitions – Graph – Tree, Basic cutset and Basic Tieset matrices for planar networks –
Nodal analysis, Mesh analysis, Super Node and Super Mesh analysis of Networks with
Independent and Dependent voltage and current sources -Duality andDual networks.
Superposition, Reciprocity, Thevenin’s, Norton’s, Maximum Power Transfer, Tellegen’s,
Millman’s and Compensation theorems for d.c. and a.c. excitations.
37
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering circuit analysis by William Hayt and Jack E. Kemmerly, Mc Graw Hill
Company, 6thedition.
2. Network Analysis by A. Sudhakar, Shyammohan Palli, Mc Graw Hill Company,
3. Circuit Theory by A. Chakrabarti, Dhanipat Rai andCo., 6thedition.
REFERENCES:
1. Network Analysis by M. E Van valkenburg, PHI.
2. Linear circuit analysis (time domain phasor, and Laplace transform approaches) by
RAYMOND A.DECARLO and PEN-MIN-LIN, Oxford University Press. Second edition
2004.
3. Network Theory: -N.C. Jagan andC.Lakshminarayana, B.S Publications.
4. Electrical Circuit theory by K. Rajeswaran, Pearson Education 2004.
5. Basic Circuit analysis by D.R, Cunningham andJ.A Stuller, Jaico Publications.
38
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
I Year B.Tech ECE,EEE,EIE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MTH1104) NUMERICAL ANALYSIS AND LINEAR PROGRAMMING
NUMERICAL ANALYSIS
UNIT I
Solutions of non-linear systems
Introduction; Mathematical preliminaries; Solution of algebraic and transcendental equations –
the bisection method, the method of false position, the iteration method, Newton - Raphson
method, and order of convergence.
UNIT II
Interpolation
Introduction; Errors in polynomial interpolation; Finite differences; Forward differences;
Backward differences; Central differences; Symbolic relations and separation of symbols;
Differences of a polynomial; Newton’s formulae for interpolation; Central difference
interpolation formulae; Gauss’s central difference formulae; Lagrange and Hermite
interpolation formulae; Cubic spline interpolation.
UNIT III
Numerical differentiation and Integration
Introduction; Differentiation of equally and unequally spaced data, and finite difference
approximations; Trapezoidal rule, Simpson’s 1/3 rule, and Simpson’s 3/8 rule.
Numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations
Solution of initial value problems by Taylor’s series - Picard’s method of successive
approximations, Euler’s method, and Runge -Kutta methods; Predictor Corrector methods –
Adams-Bashforth-Moulton method.
UNIT IV
Numerical solutions of partial differential equations (PDE)
Introduction; Classification of second order PDE; finite difference approximations to
derivatives; Solution of Laplace and Poisson equation - Jacobi’s method, Gauss-Seidal
methodby Leibmann’s,Solution of parabolic equations (heat equation) by explicit and Crank
Nicolson implicit scheme method; Solution of hyperbolic equations (wave equation).
LINEAR PROGRAMMING
UNIT V
Linear programming
Basic concepts; formulation of linear programming problem; constrained optimization-linear
programming -simplex method, dual simplex method, and transportation problems.
39
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Numerical Analysis - S.S.Sastry, PHI , 2010.
2. Operations Research - Prem Kumar Gupta and D.S.Hira, S.Chand, 2003.
REFERENCES
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics -Erwin Kreyszig, 8thEdition,John Wiley and Sons.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics - Peter V. O’Neil, 9thEdition,Cengage Learning.
3. Elementary Numerical Analysis – an algorithmic approach - Samuel D. Conte and Carl
De Boor ,3rdedition,Tata McGraw Hill,2006.
4. Numerical Analysis - R.L Burden and J.D Faires, , 7thediation, Thomson, 2007.
40
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
I Year B.Tech ECE,EEE,EIE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11PHY1102)ENGINEERING PHYSICS-II
UNIT-I
ELEMENTS OF STATISTICAL MECHANICS:Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-
Dirac statistics (non mathematical treatment) – Photon gas –Planck’s law of black body
radiation –Deduction of Wein’s law and Rayleigh-Jeans law from Plank’s law.
PRINCIPLES OF QUANTUM MECHANICS: Waves and particles – De Broglie hypothesis -
Matter waves - Davisson and Germer experiment –Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle -
Schrodinger Wave Equation – Wave function and its Physical Significance - Particle in one
dimensional potential box(wave functions, probability densities and energy states).
UNIT -II
FREE ELECTRON FERMI GAS: Energy levels in one dimension, Effect of temperature on
the Fermi-Dirac distribution, Free electron gas in three dimensions, electrical conductivity and
Ohm’s law, Electrical Resistivity of Metals (Qulitaitve), thermal conductivity of metals.
BAND THEORY OF SOLIDS: Electron in a periodic potential – Bloch Theorem - Kronig-
Penney model (non mathematical treatment) – Origin of energy band formation in solids –
Classification of materials into conductors, semiconductors and Insulators - Concept of
effective mass of an electron.
UNIT-III
SEMICONDUCTOR PHYSICS: Fermi level in Intrinsic and Extrinsic semiconductors -Intrinsic
semiconductor and carrier concentration –Extrinsic semiconductor and carrier concentration
–Equation of continuity –Direct and indirect band gap semiconductors -Hall effect.
PHYSICS OF SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES: Formation of p-n junction – open circuit p-n
junction –Energy diagram of diode –i/v characteristics of p-n junction diode –p-n diode as a
rectifier –Diode equation –LED
UNIT-IV
MAGNETIC PROPERTIES :Permeability, Field intensity, magnetic field induction,
Magnetization and Magnetic susceptibility – Origin of magnetic moment, Bohr magneton –
Classification of magnetic materials (Dia, Para and Ferro)-Domain theory of ferromagnetism,
Hysteresis curve – Soft and Hard magnetic materials – properties of Anti ferro and Ferri
magnetic materials –Ferrites and their applications.
UNIT V
SUPERCONDUCTORS:Experimental survey and superconductivity phenomenon, –Meissner
effect –Critical fields and Persistent currents, Type I and Type II superconductors -London
41
equations- flux quantization, BCS theory, Josephson effect – High temperature
Superconductors, Applications of Superconductors.
DIELECTRIC PROPERTIES:Electric dipole, Dipole moment, Dielectric constant, Electronic,
Ionic and Orientation Polarization –Calculation of Polarizibilities –Internal fields –Claussius –
Mossotti equation –Piezo and Ferro electricity
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel (Publishers: John Wiley and
Sons) for units 2 to 5
2. Concepts of Modern physics by Arthur Beiser, McGraw Hill Inc.
3. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd
References
1. Solid State Physics by S.O.Pillai, New Age Publishers
2. Solid State Physics by A.J.Dekker; Macmillan Publishers India Ltd.
3. Engineering Physics by Dr M Chandra Shekar and Dr P. Appala Naidu, VGS Book
links.
4. Solid State Physics by N.W.Ashcroft andN.David Merwin. Thomson Learning
5. Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
6. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
7. Engineering Physics by M.R.Srinivasan, New Age Publishers
42
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
I Year B.Tech ECE,EEE,EIE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11CHE1101)ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
UNIT-I
Electrochemical cells and Batteries:
Cell representation, Galvanic cells, Single electrode potential, standard electrode potential,
Electrochemical series, Nernst equation, Concentration cells. Reference electrodes –
(Hydrogen, Calomel, Quinhydrone electrode), Ion Selective Electrodes (Glass Electrode and
Flouride Electrode), Numerical problems.
Batteries:Primary and secondary cells, (lead-Acid cell, Ni-Cd cell, Lithium cells). Applications
of batteries.Fuel cells –Hydrogen –Oxygen fuel cells, Advantages of fuel cells. Solar cells:
working, principle and applications.
UNIT-II
Corrosion and its control:Introduction, causes and different types of corrosion and effects
of corrosion. Theories of corrosion – Chemical, Electrochemical corrosion, corrosion
reactions, factors affecting corrosion –Nature of metal –galvanic series, over voltage, purity
of metal, nature of oxide film, nature of corrosion product. Nature of environment -effect of
temperature, effect of pH, Humidity, effect of oxidant.
Corrosion control methods – cathodic protection, sacrificial anode, impressed current
cathode. Surface coatings – methods of application on metals - hot dipping, galvanizing,
tinning, cladding, electroplating -Organic surface coatings – paints constituents and
functions.
UNIT-III
Polymers:
III a).Polymers: Introduction, Types of Polymerization, Plastics: Thermoplastic resins and
Thermoset resins. Compounding and fabrication of plastics, preparation, properties,
engineering applications of: polyethylene, PVC, PS, Teflon, Bakelite, Nylon.
III b).Rubber: Characteristics and uses Rubber –Natural rubber, vulcanization. Elastomers –
Buna-s, Butyl rubber, Thiokol rubbers, Fibers – polyester, Fiber reinforced plastics (FRP),
applications.
UNIT-IV
Water:Introduction, Hardness: Causes, expression of hardness –units –types of hardness,
estimation of temporary and permanent hardness of water, numerical problems. Boiler
troubles –Scale andsludge formation, caustic embrittlement, corrosion, priming andfoaming
Softening of water (Internal andexternal treatment-Lime soda, Zeolite, Ion exchange process
and Numerical problems) Reverse osmosis, Electro dialysis.
43
UNIT-V
Nano-materials: Introduction, preparation and applications of nanomaterials with special
reference to Carbon nano tubes.
Insulators: Classification of insulators, characteristics of thermal andelectrical insulators and
applications of Superconductors (Nb-Sn alloy, YBa Cu O ).
2 3 7-x
TEXT BOOKS
1. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna Cherukuri, VGS
Book Links, Vijayawada.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain and Monica Jain, Dhanpatrai Publishing
Company.
REFERENCES
1. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara andMukkanti, S.Chand andCo.
New Delhi.
2. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by C.P.Murthy, C.V.Agrawal, A.Naidu,
B.S.Publications,Hyderabad.
3. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan,D.Venkappayya,Sulochana
Nagarajan, Vikas Publishers.
44
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
I Year B.Tech ECE,EEE,EIE –II Sem L T/P /D C
3 0 3
(R11CSE1102)DATA STRUCTURES
UNIT-1
Data Structures – Introduction to Data Structures, abstract data types, Linear list – singly
linked list implementation, insertion, deletion and searching operations on linear list, circular
linked list implementation, Double linked list implementation, insertion, deletion and searching
operations. Applications of linked lists.
UNIT –2
Stacks-Operations, array and linked representations of stacks, stack application-infix to
postfix conversion, postfix expression evaluation, recursion implementation.
UNIT-3
Queues-operations, array and linked representations. Circular Queue operations, Dequeues,
applications of queue.
UNIT-4
Trees –Definitions, Binary tree representation, Binary search tree, binary tree traversals.
Graphs –Definitions, Graph representations, Graph traversals.
UNIT-5
Searching and Sorting –Big O Notation , Sorting- selection sort, bubble sort, insertion sort,
quick sort, merge sort,
Searching-linear and binary search methods.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. C Programming andData Structures, B.A.Forouzan and R.F. Gilberg, Third Edition,
Cengage Learning.
2. Data Structures Using C (Paperback)by Aaron M. Tenenbaum
REFERENCES:
1. CandData structures –P. Padmanabham, Third Edition, B.S. Publications.
2. Data Structures using C –A.M.Tanenbaum, Y.Langsam, and M.J. Augenstein, Pearson
Education / PHI
3. C Programming andData Structures, E. Balagurusamy, TMH.
4. C Programming and Data Structures, P. Dey, M Ghosh R Thereja, Oxford University
Press
5. CandData structures –E V Prasad and N B Venkateswarlu, S. ChandandCo.
45
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
I Year B.Tech ECE,EEE,EIE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11CED1109)ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
UNIT-I
Introduction, Definition, scope and Importance
Ecosystems: Introduction, types, Classification of Eco system, structure and functions of
ecosystems.
Bio-diversity and its conservation, Value of bio-diversity Bio-geographical classification of
India –India as a mega diversity habitat, Threatsto bio-diversity –Hot-spots of Bio Diversity,
Conservation of bio-diversity.
UNIT-II
Natural Resources: Classification of Resources, Land resources, Land degradation, Soil
erosion and desertification, Food resources, Effects of modern agriculture, fertilizer pesticide
problems, Food miles, organic farming, Forest resources, Use and over-exploitation, Water
resources, Dams –benefits, Conflicts over Water, Energy resources-sustainable
Development, and Energy Audit
UNIT III
Environmental pollution and its control : Classification of pollution and pollutants, Air
pollution, causes ,Effects ,Control measures, ambient air quality standards, water pollution
causes , Effects ,Control measures, water and waste water treatment methods, water quality
standards, Noise pollution causes ,Effects ,Control measures, land pollution causes ,Effects
,Control measures, solid waste disposal methods ,characteristics of e-waste and
management
UNIT IV
Global Environmental problems and global Efforts: Nuclear hazards, Global warming,
Acid rain, hurricanes, Hazardous Waste, Overpopulation , ozone layer depletion, Clean
development mechanism , Green computing ,Green Building ,carbon credits, carbon trading
International conventions/protocols:Earth summit, Kyoto protocol and Montreal protocol,
Stockholm Declaration
UNIT V
Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management plan: Definition of
impact, Classification of Impacts, Prediction of Impacts and Impact assessment
Methodologies, Environmental Impact Statement, Environmental Management plan:
Technological Solutions
46
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Environmental Science by Y.Anjaneyulu, BS Publications
2. Text book of Environmental studies by Deeksha dave, Cengage publishers
3. Text book of Environmental studies by M.Anji Reddy, BS Publications
REFERENCES
1. Text book of Environmental studies by Anuba Kaushik & C P Kaushik, Newage
International Pvt.Limited
2. Text book of Environmental studies by S V S Rana, Rastogi Publications
3. Text book of Environmental studies by Dr. K Raghavan Nambiar, Scitech Publishers
47
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
I Year B.Tech ECE,EEE,EIE –II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11CSE1202)DATA STRUCTURES LABORATORY
WEEK1:
1. Write a program for creation, Search and Traversal of Single Linked List
2. Write a program to perform insertion and deletion operations in Single Linked List
3. Write a program to merge two single linked lists
WEEK2:
1. Write a program for creation, Search and Traversal of Circular Linked List
2. Write a program to perform insertion and deletion operations in Circular Linked List
WEEK 3:
1. Write a program for creation, Search and Traversal of Double Linked List
2. Write a program to perform insertion and deletion operations in Double Linked List
WEEK 4:
1. Write a program to implement stack using Arrays
2. Write a program to implement stack using Linked List
WEEK 5:
1. Write a program to convert infix expression to postfix expression using stack
2. Write a program to evaluate postfix expression
WEEK 6:
1. Write a program to implement recursion
2. Write a program to convert infix expression to prefix expression using stack
WEEK 7:
1. Write a program to implement Linear queue using Array
2. Write a program to implement Linear queue using Linked List
WEEK 8:
1. Write aprogram to implement insertions and deletions in a circular Queue
2. Write a program to perform search and count operations in a circular queue
WEEK 9:
1. Write a program to implement insertions and deletions in a Dequeue
48
2. Write a program to perform search and count operations in Dequeue
WEEK 10: Midterm Exam
Week 11:
1. Write a program to implement Linear search
2. Write a program to implement Binary Search
Week 12:
1. Write a program to implement Selection sort
2. Write a program to implement Bubble sort
3. Write a program to implement Insertion sort
WEEK 13:
1. Write a program to implement Merge sort
2. Write a program to implement Quick sort
WEEK 14:
1. Implementation of a binary tree representation using Arrays
2. Write a program to search an element, to print right and leftchildren of every node
in a tree
Weeks 15:
1. Implementation of a Graph representation using Adjacency Matrix
2. Write a program to print all adjacent nodes of every node in a graph
WEEK 16: Final Internal LaboratoryExam
49
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
I Year B.Tech ECE,EEE,EIE –II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11EPC1201)ENGINEERING PHYSICS LABORATORY
Any Eight Experiments from the following:
1. Dispersive Power of the material of a Prism using Spectrometer
2. Diffraction Grating (both with Laser and non-laser source)
3. Single Slit with laser light
4. Newton’s Rings
5. Finding thickness of a thin wire or sheet by forming a wedgeshaped film
6. Energy gap of a semiconductor material
7. Torsional Pendulum Expt. to determine the rigidity modulus of material of a wire
8. Melde’s experiment
9. Sonometer Experiment
10. Numerical Aperture and Acceptance angle of an optical fiber cable
11. Stewart Gee’s experiment
12. Characteristics of LED.
13. Photo cell/ Solar Cell
Book:Essential Practical LaboratoryManual of Physics: by P.Raghavendra Rao
50
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
I Year B.Tech ECE,EEE,EIE –II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
1. Titrimetry
a) Estimation of hardness of water by EDTA method.
2. Instrumental methods
(i) Conductometry
a) Conductometric titration of strong acid Vs Strong base
(ii) Colorimetry
a) Estimation of copper by colorimetric method
(iii) Potentiometry
a) Titration of strong acid Vs Strong base by potentiometry
3. Physical properties
a) Determination of viscosity of sample oil by Redwood viscometer.
4. Preparation of organic compounds
a) Preparation of aspirin or Thiokol rubber
TEXT BOOKS:
1. LABORATORY Manual on Engineering Chemistry by S.K.Bhasin and Sudha
Rani,Dhanpat Rai Publishing Company.
2. LABORATORY Manual on Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna
Cherukuri, VGS Book Links, Vijayawada.
51
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
I Year B.Tech ECE,EEE,EIE –II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11HAS1202) ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY -II
In continuation with the first Year I semester syllabus, this course offers further practice in
Listening, Speaking, and Grammar in preparation for the advanced speaking and writing skills
offered in the III Year .
Unit I
Multimedia Laboratory:
1. Listening Comprehension
2. Grammar --Voice
3. Vocabulary Lesson 6
Oral Communication Skills Laboratory: Self Introduction
Unit 2
Multimedia Laboratory:
1. Grammar - Conditionals andPrepositions
2. Listening Comprehension
3. Vocabulary Lesson 7
Oral Communication Skills Laboratory:
1. Description of Objects 2. Description of Processes
Unit 3
Multimedia Laboratory:
1. Grammar -- Use of Subordinate Clauses; Phrasal Verbs; Idioms
2. Vocabulary Lesson 8
Oral Communication Skills Laboratory: Presentation Skills
Unit 4
Multimedia Laboratory:
1. Grammar --Use of Substitution, Reference and Ellipsis
2. Listening Comprehension
3. Vocabulary Lesson 9
Oral Communication Skills Laboratory: Debate
Unit 5
Multimedia Laboratory:
1. Grammar --- Parallelism, Repetition, Nominalization
2. Vocabulary Lesson 10
Oral Communication Skills Laboratory: Group Discussions
52
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
II Year B.Tech EEE –I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MTH1103) MATHEMATICS –III
(Partial DifferentialEquations and Integral Transforms)
PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
UNIT I
Partial differential equations
Introduction and formation of partial differential equations by elimination of arbitrary constants
and arbitrary functions; Solutions of first order linear (Lagrange’s) equation and non-linear
(standard type) equations; Method of separation of variables for second order equations;
Particular integrals; Monge’s method for solving Rr+ Ss+ Tt = V
INTEGRAL TRANSFROMS
UNIT II
Laplace transform
Laplace transform of standard functions; Inverse transform-first shifting theorem; Dirac’s delta
function; Convolution theorem; Periodic function; Differentiation and integration of transforms;
Application of Laplace transforms toordinary differential equations.
UNIT III
Fourier series
Determination of Fourier coefficients; Fourier series -even and odd functions; Fourier series
in an arbitrary interval; Even and odd periodic continuation; Half range Fourier series sine
and cosine expansions; Fourier integral theorem (only statement); Fourier sine and cosine
integrals; Fourier transforms; Fourier sine and cosine transforms; Properties; Inverse
transforms-finite Fourier transforms.
UNIT IV
Application of transform (Laplace and Fourier)
Solutions of wave equation, heat equation and Laplace equation and their use in problems of
vibrating string; onedimensional unsteady heat flow; Two dimensional steady heat flow.
UNIT V
Z-Transform
z-transform; Inverse z-transform; Properties, initial, and final value theorems; Convolution
theorem; Difference equations; Solutions of difference equations using z-transform.
53
TEXT BOOKS
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics - R.K Jain and S.R.K Iyengar, 3rdedition,
Narosa Publications, 2011.
2. Elements of Partial Differential Equations - Ian Naismith Sneddon,Dover
Publications.
REFERENCES
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics -Erwin Kreyszig, 8thEdition,John Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics - Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition, Cengage
Learning.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics - Dennis G. Zill and Warren S. Wright, 4th
edition, Jones and Bartlett Learning.
54
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
II Year B.Tech EEE –I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MED1162) FUNDAMENTALS OF FLUID MECHANICS AND
TURBOMACHINERY
UNIT I
Properties of fluids
Fundamentals of fluid flow
Introduction; Velocity of fluid particles; Types of fluid flow; Description of the flow pattern;
Basic principles of fluid flow; Continuity equation; Acceleration of a fluid particle; Rotational
and irrotational motions;
Equations of motion and energy equation
Introduction; Forces acting on fluid in motion; Euler’s equation of motion; Integration of Euler’s
equation; Bernoulli’s equation derived from the principle of conservation of energy; Kinetic
energy correction factor; Bernoulli’s equation for a compressible fluid; Pressure velocity
relationship; Applications of Bernoulli’s equation;
UNIT II
Impact of free jets
Introduction; Force exerted by fluids jet on stationary and moving plates –Flat plate normal to
the jet, and flat plate inclined atan angleθ to the jet; Force exerted by fluid jet on stationary
and moving curved vanes – jet striking a symmetrical curved vane at the center, and jet
striking an unsymmetrical curved vane tangentially at one of the tips
Torque exerted on a wheel with radial curved vane.
UNITIII
Hydraulic turbines
Introduction; Elements of hydroelectric power plants; Head and efficiencies of hydraulic
turbines; Classification of turbines; Pelton wheel; Work done and efficiencies of pelton wheel;
Working proportions of Pelton wheel; Design of Pelton turbine runner; Work done and
efficiencies of Pelton wheel; Working proportions of Pelton wheel; Design of Pelton turbine
runner; Multiple jet Pelton wheel; Radial flow impulse turbine; Reaction turbines; Francis
turbines; Work done and efficiencies of Francis turbine; Working proportions of Francis
turbine; Design of Francis turbines runner; Draft tube theory; New types of turbines;
Governing of turbines; Runaway of turbines; Surge tanks.
UNIT IV
Performance of turbines
Introduction; Performance under unit head – unit quantities; Performance under specific
conditions; Expressions for specific speeds in terms of known coefficients for different
55
turbines; Performance characteristic curves; Model testing of turbines; Cavitation in turbines;
Selection of turbines.
UNIT V
Water power engineering
Introduction; Hydroelectric power development in India and the world; Comparison of thermal
and hydroelectric power costs; Assessment of available power; Storage and pondage; Types
of hydropower plants; Typical hydroelectric developments of India; Firm (primary) and
secondary power; Load factor, utilization factor, and capacity factor; Components of
hydropower plants.
Flow measurement and laboratory experiments
Introduction; Fluid flow measurements; Flow visualization techniques; Writing reports
TEXT BOOK
1. Hydraulics and Fluid Mechanics including Hydraulic Machines byP.N.Modi and
S.M.Seth.
REFERENCES
1. Fluid Mechanics (First SI Metric Edition) byV.L. Streeter and E.B. Wylie, Publisher:
McGraw Hill.
2. Fluid Mechanics (Third edition; International Student Edition) by V.L. Streeter;
Publisher: McGraw Hill and Kogakusha.
3. Fluid Mechanics byWhite.
56
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
II Year B.Tech EEE –I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11EEE1102) ELECTROMAGNETIC FIELD THEORY
UNIT –I
Electrostatics
Electrostatic Fields –Coulomb’s Law –ElectricField Intensity (EFI) –EFI due to a line and a
surface charge – Work done in moving a point charge in an electrostatic field – Electric
Potential –Properties of potential function –Potential gradient –Gauss’s law –Application of
Gauss’s Law –Maxwell’s first law, div ( D )=v Laplace’s and Poison’s equations –Solution
of Laplace’s equation in one variable.
UNIT –II
Conductors ,Dipole,Dielectric andCapacitance
Electric dipole –Dipole moment –potential and EFI due to an electric dipole –Torque on an
Electric dipole in an electric field – Behavior of conductors in an electric field – Conductors
and Insulators.
Electric field inside a dielectric material –polarization –Dielectric –Conductor and Dielectric –
Dielectric boundary conditions, Capacitance –Capacitance of parallel plate and spherical and
co-axial capacitors with composite dielectrics –Energy stored and energy density in a static
electric field –Current density –conduction and Convection current densities –Ohm’s law in
point form –Equation of continuity.
UNIT –III
Magneto Statics
Static magnetic fields – Biot-Savart’s law – Oesterd’s experiment - Magnetic field intensity
(MFI) – MFI due to a straight current carrying filament – MFI due to circular, square and
solenoid current –Carrying wire –Relation between magnetic flux, magnetic flux density and
MFI – Maxwell’s second Equation, div(B)=0. Ampere’s circuital law and its applications viz.
MFI due to an infinite sheet of current and a long current carrying filament – Point form of
Ampere’s circuital law –Maxwell’s third equation, Curl (H)=Jc,
57
UNIT –IV
Force in Magnetic fields and Magnetic Potential
Magnetic force - Moving charges in a Magnetic field –Lorentz force equation – force on a
current element in a magnetic field –Force on a straight and a long current carrying conductor
in a magnetic field –Force between two straight long and parallel current carrying conductors
– Magnetic dipole and dipole moment – a differential current loop as a magnetic dipole –
Torque on a current loop placed in a magnetic field
Scalar Magnetic potential and its limitations –vector magnetic potential and its properties –
vector magnetic potential due to simple configurations –vector Poisson’s equations.
Self and Mutual inductance – Neumans’s formulae – determination of self-inductance of a
solenoid and toroid and mutual inductance between a straight long wire and a square loop
wire in the same plane – energy stored and density in a magnetic field. Introduction to
permanent magnets,their characteristics and applications.
UNIT –V
Time Varying Fields
Time varying fields – Faraday’s laws of electromagnetic induction – Its integral and point
forms – Maxwell’s fourth equation, Curl (E)=-B/t – Statically and Dynamically induced
EMFs – Simple problems -Modification of Maxwell’s equations for time varying fields –
Displacement current –Poynting Theorem and Poynting vector.
TEXT BOOKS
1. “Engineering Electromagnetics” by William H. Hayt and John. A. Buck Mc. Graw-Hill
Companies, 7thEditon.2006.
2. “Electro magnetic Fields” by Sadiku, Oxford Publications
REFERENCES
1. “Introduction to Electro Dynamics” by D J Griffiths, Prentice-Hall of India Pvt.Ltd,
2ndediton
2. “Electromagnetics” by J P Tewari, TMH Publications.
3. “Electromagnetics” by J. D Kraus Mc Graw-Hill Inc. 4thedition 1992.
4. “Electromagnetic fields”, by S. Kamakshaiah, Right Publishers, 2007.
58
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
II Year B.Tech EEE –I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11EEE1103) ELECTRICAL MACHINES-I
UNIT-I
Electromechanical energy Conversion
Law of energy conservation- Need of Electromechanical energy Conversion-Definition of
Generator and Motor-Coupling medium-Role-Electromagnetic machines-Electrostatic
machines concept-Energy balance equation of a motor and generator-Singly excited
electromagnetic systems-Energy-Coenergy- force expression-Multi excited systems-Torque
expression-Problems
UNIT-II
D.C Generators-I
D.C generator-principle-simple loop generator-Construction-Homo polar and Hetero polar
machines-differences-DC Armature Windings-Lap and Wave windings-Development-
Differences-Simplex, Duplex and Triplex windings-Emf equation-Classification of D.C.
Generators -self excitation-open circuit characteristics-critical resistance and critical speed-
problems.
UNIT-III
D.C.Genarators-II
Armature Reaction-Effects-Distribution of Field mmf andArmature mmf-Demagnetising and
Cross magnetizing AT/pole-Compensating Windings-Problems-Commutation-Methods of
ImprovingCommutation-Generator Characteristics-Power Stages-Losses-Efficiency-Parallel
Operation-Problems
UNIT-IV
D.C.Motor-I
D.C.Motor-Principle-Function of Commutator-Types-Back emf-Voltage Equation-Mechanical
Power developed-Condition for maximum mechanical power developed-Torque equation-
Motor characteristics-Power stages-Efficiency-Condition for maximum efficiency-problems.
59
UNIT-V
DC Motor-II
Speed control-Field and Armature control methods-Ward leonard system-starting of
D.C.Motors-3 point and 4 point starters-Design of starter steps-problems-Testing of
D.C.Machines:Brake Test-Swin-Burne’s Test-Hopkinson’s test-Field’s Test-Retardation Test-
Problems-concept of Electrical Braking [Elementary Treatment only].
TEXT BOOKS
1.Electrical Machines-A.E Fitzgerald, C.kingsely and S.Umans, MGH,5th edition
2. Electric Machines-P.S. Bimbra-Khanna publishers
REFERENCES
1. Performance and Design of D.C machines-Clayton andHancock, BPB publishers
2. Electrical machines-I.J Nagrath andB.P kothari, TMH Publishers, 3rd edition
3. Fundamentals of Electrical machinery by Stephen Chapman, TMH Publishers
60
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
II Year B.Tech ECE –I sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
R11ECE1102) ELECTRONIC DEVICES AND CIRCUITS
UNIT I
p-n Junction Diode and Applications : Review of Semi Conductor Materials, Theory of p-n
Junction, p-n Junction as a Diode, Diode Equation, Volt-Ampere Characteristics, Temperature
dependence of V-I characteristic, Ideal versus Practical –Resistance levels (Static and
Dynamic), Transition and Diffusion Capacitances, Diode Equivalent Circuits, Load Line
Analysis.
The p-n Junction as a rectifier, Half wave Rectifier, Full wave rectifier, Bridge Rectifier,
Harmonic components in a Rectifier Circuit, Inductorfilters, Capacitor filters, L-Section Filters,
- section filters, Comparison of Regulation Characteristics of different Filters, Breakdown
Mechanisms in Semi Conductor Diodes, Zener Diode Characteristics, Shunt Voltage
Regulation using Zener Diode. Principle of series voltage regulators.
UNIT II
Transistors, Biasing and Stabilization : The Junction Transistor, Transistor Current
Components, Transistor as an Amplifier, Transistor Construction, BJT Operation, Common
Base, Common Emitter and Common Collector Configurations, Limits of Operation, BJT
Specifications.
Quiescent operating Point, The DC and AC Load lines, Need for Biasing, Fixed Bias,
Collector Feedback Bias, Emitter Feedback Bias, Collector-Emitter Feedback Bias, Voltage
Divider Bias, Bias Stability, Stabilization Factors, Stabilization against variations in V β
BE, 1
and I . Bias Compensation using Diodes and Transistors, Thermal Runway, Thermal
CO
Stability.
UNIT III
Small signal low frequency BJT Amplifiers: Small signal low frequency transistor amplifier
circuits: h-parameter representation of a transistor, Analysis of single stage transistor
amplifiers CE, CC, CB configurations using h-parameters: voltage gain, current gain, Input
impedance and Output impedance. Comparison of CB, CE, CC configurations in terms of A,
I
R, A , R .
i V O
UNIT IV
FET, Biasing and Amplifiers : The Junction Field Effect Transistor (Construction, Principle
of operation) –Pinch-off Voltage-Volt-Ampere characteristics, The JFET Small Signal Model,
MOSFET (Construction, Principle of operation), MOSFET Characteristics in Enhancement
and Depletion modes. FET Common Source Amplifier, Common Drain Amplifier, Generalized
61
FET Amplifier, Biasing FET, FET as Voltage Variable Resistor. Comparison of BJT and FET
amplifiers.
UNIT V
Special Purpose Electronic Devices : Principle of Operation and Characteristics of Tunnel
Diode (with the help of Energy Band Diagram), Varactor Diode and schotky barrier diode.
Principle of Operation and Characteristics of UJT, UJT Relaxation Oscillator. Principle of
Operation of SCR, Diac and Triac. Principle of Operation of Semiconductor Photo Diode, PIN
Diode ,Photo Transistor ,LED and LCD.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Electronic Devices and Circuits –J.Millman, C.C.Halkias, and Satyabratha Jit, Tata
McGraw Hill, 2ndEdition, 2007.
2. Electronic Devices and Circuits –R.L. Boylestad and Louis Nashelsky, Pearson/Prentice
Hall, 9thEdition, 2006.
3. Introduction to Electronic Devices and Circuits -Rober . T. Paynter, 7thEdition, PE,
2009.
REFERENCES
1. Integrated Electronics -J.Millman and Christos.C.Halkias, and Satyabratha, Jit Tata
McGraw Hill, 2ndEdition, 2008.
2. Electronic Devices and Circuits –T.F. Bogart Jr., J.S.Beasley and G.Rico, Pearson
Education, 6th Edition, 2004.
3. Electronic Devices and Circuits-S. S Salivahanan, N. Sursh Kumar, A. Vallava Raju,2nd
Edition., TMH, 2010.
4. Electronic Devices and Circuits –Dr. K. Lal Kishore, B.S. Publications, 2ndEdition, 2005.
62
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
II Year B.Tech EEE –I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11EEE1104) NETWORK ANAYSIS
UNIT–I
Three Phase Circuits
Three phase circuits: Phase sequence –Star and Delta connection –Relation between line
and phase voltages and currents in balanced systems – Analysis of balanced and
Unbalanced 3 phase circuits – Measurement of Active and Reactive Power- Different
methods-Problems
UNIT–II
Transient Analysis
Transient response of R-L, R-C, R-L-C circuits (Series and parallel combinations) for d.c. and
sinusoidal excitations – Initial conditions - Solution using differential equation approach and
Laplace transforms.
UNIT–III
Network Functions
The Complex Frequency- concept -Physical interpretation - Transform Impedance and
Transform Circuits, Series and parallel Combination of Elements, Terminal Pairs or Ports,
Network Functions for One-port and Two-port, Poles and Zeros of Network Functions,
Significance of poles and Zeros, Properties of Driving Point Functions, Properties of Transfer
functions, Necessary Conditions for Transfer Functions, Time Domain Response from Pole
Zero Plot.
UNIT–IV
Network Parameters
Impedance parameters, Admittance parameters, Hybrid parameters, Transmission (ABCD)
parameters, conversion of Parameters from one formto other, Conditions for Reciprocity and
Symmetry, Interconnection of Two Port networks in Series, Parallel and Cascaded
configurations, Image Parameters, Illustrative problems.
63
UNIT–V
Fourier analysis of A. C. Circuitsand Filters
The Fourier theorem, consideration of symmetry, exponential form of Fourier series, line
spectra and phase angle spectra, Fourier integrals and Fourier transforms, properties of
Fourier transforms, Application to Electrical Systems.
Low pass, High pass, Band pass, Band elimination, Prototype filter design
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering circuit analysis by William Hayt and Jack E. Kemmerly, Mc Graw Hill
Publications, 6thedition.
2. Network Analysis by A. Sudhakar, Shyammohan Palli, Mc Graw Hill Publications.
3. Network Analysis by M. E Van valkenburg, PHI.
REFERENCES
1. Circuit Theory by A. Chakrabarti, Dhanipat Rai and Co., 6thedition.
2. Electric circuit analysis by B. Subrahmanyam, I. K international.
3. Electric circuit analysis by C. L. Wadhwa, New Age international.
4. Electrical Circuits by David A. Bell, Oxford University press.
5. Basic circuit analysis by D. R, Cunningham andJ. A Stuller, Jaico Publications.
6. Electrical Circuit theory by K. Rajeswaran, Pearson Education 2004.
7. Network Theory and Filter Design by Vasudev K. Aatre, Eastern Wiley Publishers,
1993.
8. Schaum'sOutlineofElectric Circuits, Fifth Edition.
64
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
II Year B.Tech EEE –I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11EEE1201) ELECTRICAL CIRCUITS AND SIMULATION LABORATORY
PART-A: ELECTRICAL CIRCUITS
1) Verification of Thevenin’s, Norton’s and Maximum Power Transfer Theorems
2) Verification of Superposition theorem and RMS value of complex wave
3) Verification of Compensation Theorem
4) Verification of Reciprocity and Millmann’s Theorems
5) Locus Diagrams ofRL and RC Series Circuits
6) Series and Parallel Resonance
7) Determination of Self, Mutual Inductances and Coefficient of coupling
8) Z and Y Parameters
9) Transmissionand hybrid parameters
10) Measurement of Active Power for Star and Delta connected balanced loads
11) Measurement of Reactive Power for Star and Delta connected balanced loads
12) Measurement of 3-phase Power by two Wattmeter Method for unbalanced loads
PART-B: PSPICESIMULATION
1) Simulation of DC Circuits
2) DC Transient response
3) AC Transient response
4) Mesh Analysis
5) Nodal Analysis
6) Thevinen’s Theorem verification
7) Measurement of active Power of three phase circuit for balanced and unbalanced
load
8) Determination of Regulation of a Single Phase Transformer
NOTE:
 PSPICESoftware Package is necessary.
 Eight experiments are to be conducted from PART-A and any Fourfrom PART-B
65
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
II Year B.Tech EEE –I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11MED1212) FLUID MECHANICS AND HYDRAULIC MACHINERY AND ELECTRONIC
DEVICESLABORATORY
List of Experiments
FLUID MECHANICS AND HYDRAULIC MACHINERY LABORATORY
1. Verification of Bernoulli’s Theorem
2. Calibration of Venturimeter and Orificemeter
3. Calculation of Frictional losses in a given pipe line
4. Performance test on Pelton Wheel
5. Performance Test on Francis Turbine
6. Performance Test on Centrifugal Pump
7. Performance Test on Kaplan Turbine
8. Performance Test on Reciprocating Pump
ELECTRONIC DEVICES LABORATORY
1. Forward andReverse Bias characteristics on PN junction Diode.
2. Zener diode characteristics and Zener as voltage regulator.
3. Half Wave, Full wave andBridge Rectifier with andwithout filters.
4. Characteristics of a BJT under CE configuration and calculation of h-parameters.
5. Characteristics of a BJT under CC configuration and calculation of h-parameters.
6. Characteristics of a BJT under CB configuration and calculation of h-parameters.
7. FET characteristics under CS configuration.
8. UJT characteristics and Relaxation Oscillator
Any10 experimentsFive experiments from each part are to be conducted
66
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
II Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11ECE1103) SWITCHING THEORY AND LOGIC DESIGN
UNIT I
Number Systems And Codes:Philosophy of Number Systems Complement Representation
of Negative Numbers , Binary Arithmetic, Binary Codes, Error Detecting and Error Correcting
Codes, Hamming Codes.
Boolean Algebra and Switching Functions: Fundamental Postulates of Boolean Algebra.
Basic theorems and Properties , Switching Functions, Canonical and Standard forms ,
Algebra Simplification, Digital Logic Gates, Universal Gates, Multilevel NAND/NOR
Realizations.
UNIT II
Minimization of Switching Functions: K-map method , Prime Implicants , Don’t care
Combinations , Minimal SOP and POS forms, Tabular Method ,Prime Implicant chart,
Simplification rules.
Combinational Logic Design: Design using Conventional logic gates, Encoder, Decoder,
Multiplexer, De- Multiplexer, Modular Design using IC Chips, Design of code converters,
Parity bit generator, Hazards and Hazard free Realizations.
UNIT III
Sequential Circuits – I: Classification of Sequential circuits (Synchronous, Asynchronous,
Plus mode, Level mode with examples), Basic Flip-Flops, Triggering and Excitation tables,
Flip-Flop conversions, Steps in Synchronous Sequential circuit Design, shift registers and
their applications, Design of counters, Serial Binary Adder, Sequence detector.
UNIT IV
Sequential Circuits – II : Finite State Machine-Capabilities And Limitations, Mealy and
moore models, Minimization of Completely Specified and Incompletely specified Sequential
Machines, Partition Techniques and Merger chart methods, Concept of Minimal cover table.
UNIT V
Programmable Logic Devices: Basic PLD’s: ROM, PROM, PLA, PAL, Realization of
Switching functions using PLD’s.
Algorithmic State Machines :Salient features of the ASM chart, Simple examples, System
Design using data path and control subsystems , Control Implementations, ASM charts for
Flip-Flop’s, Examples of Dice Game and Binary Multiplier.
67
TEXT BOOKS:
1 Switching and Finite Automata Theory-Zvi Kohavi, 2nd Edition, TMH.
2 Degital Design –Morris Mano, 3rd Edition, PHI, 2006.
3 Switching Theory and Logic Design –A. Anand Kumar, PHI , 2008
REFERENCES:
1. An Engineering Approach to Digital Design –Fletcher, PHI.
2. Fundamentals of Logic Design –Charles H, Roth, 5th Edition, Thomson Publications, 2004.
3. Digital Logic Applications and Design –John M. Yarbrough, Thomson Publications, 2006
4. Modern Digital Electronics –R.P. Jain, 4thEdition.
68
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
II Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11EEE1106) CONTROL SYSTEMS
UNIT –I
INTRODUCTION
Concepts of Control Systems- Open Loop and closed loop control systems and their
differences- Different examples of control systems- Classification of control systems, Feed-
Back Characteristics, Effects of feedback.
Mathematical models – Differential equations, Impulse Response and transfer functions -
Translational and Rotational mechanical systems
UNIT II
TRANSFER FUNCTION REPRESENTATION AND TIME RESPONSE ANALYSIS
Transfer Function of DC Servo motor - AC Servo motor- Synchro transmitter and Receiver,
Block diagram representation of systems considering electrical systems as examples -Block
diagram algebra – Representation by Signal flow graph - Reduction using Mason’s gain
formula.
Standard test signals - Time response of first order systems – Characteristic Equation of
Feedback control systems, Transient response of second order systems - Time domain
specifications –Steady state response -Steady state errors and error constants –Effects of
proportional derivative, proportional integral systems.
UNIT –III
STABILITY ANALYSIS IN S-DOMAIN
The concept of stability – Routh’s stability criterion – qualitative stability and conditional
stability –limitations of Routh’s stability
Root Locus Technique:
The root locus concept -construction of root loci-effects of adding poles and zeros to G(s)H(s)
on the root loci.
69
UNIT –IV
FREQUENCY RESPONSE AND STABILITY ANALYSIS IN FREQUENCY DOMAIN
Introduction, Frequency domain specifications-Bode diagrams-Determination of Frequency
domain specifications and transfer function from the Bode Diagram-Phase margin and Gain
margin-Stability Analysis from Bode Plots. Polar Plots-Nyquist Plots-Stability Analysis.
UNIT –V
CLASSICAL CONTROL DESIGN TECHNIQUES AND STATE SPACE ANALYSIS OF
CONTINUOUS SYSTEMS
Compensation techniques – Lag, Lead, Lead-Lag Controllers design in frequency Domain,
PID Controllers.
Concepts of state, state variables and state model, derivation of state models from block
diagrams, Diagonalization-Solving the Time invariant state Equations-State Transition Matrix
and it’s Properties –Concepts of Controllability and Observability
TEXT BOOKS
1. AutomaticControlSystemsby B. C. Kuo, John wiley and son’s.,Publications.
2. Control Systems Engineering –by I. J. Nagrath and M. Gopal, New Age
International (P) Limited, Publishers, 2ndedition.
REFERENCES
1. Modern Control Engineering –by Katsuhiko Ogata –Prentice Hall of India Pvt. Ltd.,
3rdedition, 1998.
2. Control Systems by N.K.Sinha, New Age International (P) Limited Publishers, 3rd
Edition, 1998.
3. Control Systems Engg. by NISE 3rdEdition –John wiley
4. “Modelling and Control Of Dynamic Systems” by Narciso F. Macia George J.
Thaler, Thomson Publishers.
70
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
II Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11HAS1102) BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
UNIT I
Business and new economic environment
Characteristic features of business; Features and evaluation of sole proprietorship;
Partnership; Joint stock company; Public enterprises and their types; Changing business
environment in post-liberalization scenario.
UNIT II
Introduction to business economics, and demand analysis
Definition; Nature and scope of managerial economics -demand analysis determinants; Law
of demand and its exceptions.
Elasticity of demand and demand forecasting
Definition; Types; Measurement and significance of elasticity of demand; Demand forecasting;
Factors governing demand forecasting; Methods of demand forecasting - survey methods,
statistical methods, expert opinion method, test marketing, controlled experiments, and
judgmental approach to demand forecasting.
UNIT III
Cost analysis
Cost concepts -opportunity cost, fixed vs. variable costs, explicit costs vs. implicit costs, and
out of pocket costs vs. imputed costs; Break-even analysis (BEA) - determination of break-
even point (simple problems), managerial significance, and limitations of BEA.
Capital and capital budgeting
Capital and its significance; Types of capital; Estimation of fixed and working capital
requirements; Methods and sources of raising finance.
Nature and scope of capital budgeting; Features of capital budgeting proposals; Methods of
capital budgeting-payback method, accounting rate of return (ARR), and net present value
method (simple problems)
UNIT IV
Theory of production
Production function - isoquants and isocosts, least cost combination of inputs, and laws of
returns; Internal and external economics of scale.
Market structures
Types of competition; Features of perfect competition, monopoly, and monopolistic
competition; Price-output determination in case of perfect competition and monopoly.
71
Pricing policies and methods
Cost plus pricing; Marginal cost pricing; Sealed bid pricing; Going rate pricing, Limit pricing,
Market skimming pricing, Penetration pricing, Two-part pricing, Block pricing, Bundling pricing,
Peak load pricing, Cross subsidization.
UNI T V
Introduction to financial accounting
Double-entry book keeping; Journal; Ledger; Trial balance; Final accounts -trading account,
profit and loss account, and balance sheet with simple adjustments.
Financial analysis through ratios
Computation; Analysis and interpretation of liquidity ratios - current ratio, and quick ratio;
Activity ratios - inventory turnover ratio, and debtor turnover ratio; Capital structure ratios –
debt-equity ratio, and interest coverage ratio; Profitability ratios - gross profit ratio, net profit
ratio, operating ratio, P/E ratio, and EPs.
TEXT BOOK
1. Managerial Economics and Financial Analysis byAryasri, 2009; Publisher: Tata McGraw
Hill.
2. Managerial Economics byVarshney & Maheswari, 2009; Publisher: Sultan Chand.
REFERENCES
1. Financial Accounting for Management: An analytical perspective by Ambrish Gupta,
2010; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Managerial Economics byH. Craig Peterson & W. Cris Lewis; Publisher: Prentice Hall
of India.
72
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
II Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11EEE1107) POWER SYSTEMS-I
Objective
Electrical Power plays significant role in day to day life of entire mankind. This course
concerns the generation and distribution of power along with the economic aspects.
UNIT-I
Introduction and Hydro Power Plants
General discussion on various types of conventional andnon-conventional powerGeneration
Hydro-Electric Stations-Choice of site, arrangement of hydroelectric installations, Hydrology,
Mass curve, flow duration curve, water storage, classification of hydroelectric plants, pumped
storage plants, operating cost of hydroelectric station, tidal power generation, mini-micro
hydro power systems
UNIT-II
Thermal and Nuclear Power Stations
Line diagram of Thermal Power Station (TPS) showing paths of coal, steam, water, air, ash
and flue gasses.-Brief description of TPS components: Economizers, Boilers, Super heaters,
Turbines, Condensers, Chimney and Cooling towers.
Nuclear Power Stations: Nuclear Fission and Chain reaction.- Nuclear fuels.- Principle of
operation of Nuclear reactor.-Reactor Components: Moderators, Control rods, Reflectors and
Coolants.- Radiation hazards: Shielding and Safety precautions.- Types of Nuclear reactors
and brief description of PWR, BWR and FBR.
UNIT-III
Gas and Non Conventional Power Generation
Gas Power Stations: Principle of Operation and Components ( Block Diagram Approach
Only).
Non conventional Power generation(Elementary treatment only): Solar Radiation, Solar
Energy Collectors, Energy Resources, Solar Cell, Wind Power Stations,Geo thermal and
Tidal Power generation.
73
UNIT-IV
General Aspects of Distribution Systems and D.C. andA.C Distribution Systems
Substation Layouts (Air and Gas Insulated) - Classification of Distribution Systems -
Comparison of DC vs. AC and Under-Ground vs. Over - Head Distribution Systems-
Requirements and Design features of Distribution Systems-Voltage Drop Calculations
(Numerical Problems) in D.C Distributors for the following cases: Radial D.C Distributor fed
one end and at both the ends (equal/unequal Voltages) and Ring Main Distributor. Voltage
Drop Calculations (Numerical Problems) in A.C. Distributors for the following cases: Power
Factors referred to receiving end voltage and with respect to respective load voltages.
UNIT-V
Economic Aspects of Power Plants
Economic Aspects of Power Plant Operation-Fixed charges, interest and depreciation
charges, methods of depreciation, straight line and sinking fund methods, different tariffs,
effect of load factor, demand and diversity factors, power factor improvement.Optimal design
of shunt capacitors for the power factor improvement-problems.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Generation and utilization of Electrical Energy – C.L.Wadhawa, New age
International (P) Limited, Publishers 1997.
2. Electrical Power Systems by C.L.Wadhawa, New age International (P) Limited,
Publishers 1997.
3. A Text Book on Power System Engineering by M.L.Soni, P.V.Gupta,
U.S.Bhatnagar and A.Chakraborti, Dhanpat Rai andCo. Pvt. Ltd.,1999.
REFERENCES
1. Elements of Power Station design and practice by M.V. Deshpande, Wheeler
Publishing.
2. Electrical Power Generation, Transmission and Distribution by S.N.Singh., PHI,
2003.
3. Gas turbine performance, by PP Wals, P.Fletcher, Blackwell Publisher, 2004.
74
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
II Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11ECE1131) ELECTRONIC CIRCUITS
UNIT –I
Multi Stage Amplifiers : Multi Stage, Amplifiers Methods of Inter Stage Coupling, n –
Stage Cascaded Amplifier, Equivalent Circuits, Miller’s Theorem, Frequency Effects, Amplifier
Analysis, Transistor Circuits. Cascade – Transistor Configuration, CE-CC Amplifiers
(Darlington Pair), Two Stage RC Coupled JFET amplifier (in Common Source configuration),
Difference Amplifier.
BJT andFET FREQUENCY RESPONSE
Logarithms- Decibels- General frequency consideration- Low frequency response of BJT
amplifiers – Low frequency response of FET amplifier- Miller effect capacitance – High
frequency response of BJT amplifier
UNIT –II
FEEDBACK AMPLIFIERS
Concept of feedback, Classification of feedback amplifiers, General characteristics of
negative amplifiers, Effect of feedback on Amplifier characteristics- Voltage series- Voltage
shunt, current series and Current shunt Feedback configurations-Simple problems
OSCILLATORS
Conditions for oscillations, RC and LC type Oscillators, Crystal oscillators, Frequency and
amplitude stability of oscillators, Generalized analysis of LC oscillators, Quartz, Hartley and
Colpitts Oscillators, RC-Phase shift and wein-bridge oscillators.
UNIT-III
LARGE SIGNAL AMPLIIFERS
Class-A Power Amplifier, Maximum Value of Efficiency of Class-A Amplifier, Transformer
coupled amplifier- Push Pull Amplifier- Complimentary Symmetry Circuits (Transformer less
Class B Power Amplifier)-Phase Inverters, Transistor Power Dissipation, Thermal Runway,
Heat Sinks.
75
LINEAR WAVESHAPING
High pass, Low pass RC circuits their response for sinusoidal, step, pulse, square and ramp
inputs.
UNIT –I V
CLIPPERS AND CLAMPERS
Diode clippers, Transistor clippers, clipping at two independent levels, Transfer characteristics
of clippers, Emitter coupled clipper, Comparators, Applications of voltage comparators,
clamping operation, clamping circuits using diode with different inputs, Clamping circuit
theorem, practical clamping circuits, effect of diode characteristics on clamping voltage,
Transfer characteristics of clampers.
SWITCHING CHARACTERISTICS OF DEVICES
Diode as a switch, piecewise linear diode characteristics, Transistor as a switch, Break down
voltage consideration of transistor, saturation parameters of Transistor and their variation with
temperature, Design of transistor switch, transistor-switching times.
UNIT –V MULTIVIBRATORS
Analysis and Design of Bistable, Monostable, Astable Multivibrators and Schmitt trigger using
transistors.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Electronic Device and Circuit Theory, Robert L.Boylestad, Louis Nasheisky, 9th
Edition 2007, Pearson Education
2. Electronic Devices and Circuits by S.Salivahanan, N.Suresh Kumar and
A.Vallavaraj, 2nd edition 2008, Tata McGraw Hill Companies.
3. Solid State Pulse Circuits by David A Bell 4thEdition, Prentice Hall of India.
REFERENCES:
1. Introductory Electronic Devices and Circuits (Conventional flow version) – Robert
T.Paynter, 7 Edition 2009,PEI.
2. Electronic Devices and Circuits, Anil K.Malin, Varsha Agrawal, Ist Edition,WILEY
3. Pulse, Digital and Switching Waveforms by Jacob Milliman , Harbert Taub and
Mothiki S.Prakash rao, 2ndedition 2008, Tata McGraw Hill Companies.
76
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
II Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11EEE1108) ELECTRICAL MACHINES –II
UNIT –I
Transformers-I
Transformer principle-Need of Transformer-construction-core type-shell type-Emf equation-
core losses-Dependency of core losses on frequency-Transformer on No-load-phasor
diagram-Excitation phenomenon-Inrush currents-Ideal Transformer on load-Real
Transformers on load-phasor diagrams-leakage reactance-Equivalent circuit diagram
UNIT –II
Transformers-II
Voltage Regulation-Dependency of voltage Regulation on load power factor-losses-Efficiency-
Condition for maximum efficiency-Maximum efficiency of Power and Distribution
Transformers-Testing of Transformers-OC Test-SC Test-Polarity Test -Sumpners Test -Auto
Transformer –Equivalent Circuit-All day efficiency.
UNIT –III
Parallel operation and Three Phase Transformers
Construction of three phase transformer -Polyphase connections - Y/Y, Y/, /Y, / and
open , Zig-Zag Connections - Third harmonics in phase voltages-three winding
transformers-tertiary windings- Scott connection - Parallel operation –conditions-problems-
ONload tap changer, OFF load tapchanger -cooling of a transformer.
UNIT –IV
Poly Phase Induction Motors-I
Three phase induction motors - construction – Types of rotor –Rotating Magnetic field – Principle of
operation – Slip – Rotor frequency – Rotor Equivalent Circuit – Rotor Input – Mechanical Power
developed-Complete equivalent circuit –Phasor diagrams at starting and running conditions –Losses
and power flow –Efficiency- Torque Equation – Starting and maximum torque – Torque Slip
Characteristics –Deep bar and double cage rotors.
77
UNIT –V
Poly phase Induction Motors-II
Circle diagram-No load and Blocked rotor tests-Performance Analysis from circle diagram –
starting of Induction motors – Different Starters – Speed control – Control from stator and
rotorsides–Crawling and cogging –Induction Generator.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Electric machinery -A.E. Fritzgerald, C.Kingsley and S.Umans, Mc Graw Hill Companies,
5thedition
2. Electrical machines-PS Bhimbra, Khanna Publishers.
REFERENCES
1. Performance and Design of AC Machines by MG.Say, BPB Publishers
2. Theory of Alternating Current Machinery- by Langsdorf, Tata McGraw-Hill
Companies, 2ndedition.
3. Electric Machines –by I.J.Nagrath and D.P.Kothari,Tata Mc Graw Hill, 7th
Edition.2005
4. Electromechanics-II (transformers and induction motors) S. Kamakashaiah Hitech
publishers.
78
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
II Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11EEE1204) ELECTRICAL MACHINES-I LABORATORY
CYCLE –I
1. Swinburne’s Test and Brake test on D.C.Shunt Machine
2. Magnetization characteristics of DC Shunt Generator
3. Load Test on D.C.Shunt Generator
4. Magnetization Characteristics Of D.C.Series Generator
5. Hopkinson’s Test on a Pair of Identical D.C. Shunt Machines
6. Speed Control of D.C.Shunt Motor
7. Separation of Losses of a D.C.Machine
CYCLE –II
1. Load Test on D.C.Series Generator
2. No-Load and Load Characteristics’ of D.C.Compound Generator
3. OC and SC Tests on 1-phaseTransformer
4. Field’s Test on a Pair of Identical D.C. Series Machines
5. Load Test on 1-phaseTransformer
6. Retardation Test on D.C.Shunt Motor
Additional Experiments
1. Brake Test on D.C.Compound Motor
2. Ward Leonard Speed Control of D.C.Shunt Motor
3. No-loadand Load Characteristics of Separately Excited D.C.Generator
79
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
II Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11ECE1209)ELECTRONIC CIRCUITS LABORATORY
1. Frequency response of CE Amplifier.
2. Frequency response of CC Amplifier.
3. Frequency response of FET Amplifier.
4. Linear wave shaping.
5. Non Linear wave shaping –Clippers.
6. Non Linear wave shaping –Clampers.
7. Transistor as a switch.
8. Study of Logic Gates andSome applications.
9. Study of Flip-Flops andsome applications.
10. Astable Multivibrator.
11. Monostable Multivibrator.
12. Bistable Multivibrator
13. Hartley Oscillator
Any Ten of the above experiments are to be conducted.
80
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
III Year B.Tech EEE–I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11ECE1108) MICROPROCESSORS AND MICROCONTROLLERS
UNIT I
Introduction to 8085 Microprocessor, Architecture of 8086 Microprocessor, Addressing
modes of 8086, Instruction set of 8086, Assembler directives, simple assembly language
programs, procedures, and macros. Pin diagram of 8086-Minimum mode and maximum mode
of operation. Memory and I/O organization of 8086.
UNIT II
8255 PPI – various modes of operation and interfacing to 8086. Interfacing Keyboard and
Displays, D/A and A/D converter to 8086 using 8255, memory interfacing to 8086, Interfacing
8257 DMA Controller to 8086.
UNIT III
Serial Communication standards, serial data transfer schemes, 8251 USART architecture
and interfacing, RS-232, IEEE 488 standards. Interrupt structure of 8086, Interrupt Vector
Table. Need for 8259 Programmable Interrupt Controller.
UNIT IV
Introduction to Microcontrollers, 8051 Microcontroller Architecture, I/O ports, memory
organization, counters and Timers, Serial data Input/Output, Interrupts. Addressing modes,
Instruction set of 8051, Simple programs.
Timer, serial port and Interrupts programming: Programming 8051 timers/counters, 8051
serial port programming, programming timer interrupts, programming External hardware
interrupts, programming serial communication interrupts.
UNIT V
The AVR RISC microcontroller architecture: Introduction, AVR family architecture, Register
File, The ALU, Memory access and Instruction execution, I/O memory, EEPROM, I/O ports,
Timers, UART, Interrupt structure.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Microprocessors and interfacing –Douglas V. Hall, TMH, 2ndEdition, 1999.
2. 8051 Microcontroller –Kenneth J. Ayala, Penram International/ Thomson, 3rdEdition.
3. The 8051 microcontrollers and Embedded systems-Mazidi and mazidi, PHI, 2000.
81
REFERENCES
1. Micro computer systems, The 8086/8088 Family Architecture, Programming and Design –
Y.Liu and G.A. Gibson, PHI, 2ndedition.
2. Advanced microprocessorsand Peripherals –A.K.Ray and K.M.Bhurchandi, TMH, 2000.
3. Micro Computer System 8086/8088 Family Architecture Programmingand Design–By Liu
and GA Gibson PHI, 2nd Edition
4. Microcontrollers and Applications, Ajay V. Deshmukh, TMGH,2005.
5.The 8085 Microprocessor : Architecture Programming and Interfacing–K.Uday Kumar, B.S
Umashankar, Pearson, 2008.
82
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
III Year B.Tech EEE –I sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11EIE1106) LINEAR AND DIGITAL IC APPLICATIONS
UNIT I
INTEGRATED CIRCUITS
Classification, chip size and circuit complexity, basic information of Op-amp, ideal and
practical Op-amp, internal circuits, Op-amp characteristics, DC and AC characteristics, 741
op-amp and its features, modes of operation-inverting, non-inverting, differential.
OP-AMP APPLICATIONS
Basic application of Op-amp, instrumentation amplifier, ac amplifier, V to I and I to V
converters, sample and hold circuits, Instrumentation amplifier, Log and antilog amplifier,
Precision rectifiers, Differentiators, Integrators, and comparators, sample and hold circuits..
UNIT II
ACTIVE FILTERS and OSCILLATORS
Introduction, 1st order LPF, HPF filters. Band pass, Band reject and all pass filters. Oscillator
types and principle of operation – RC, Wien and quadrature type, waveform generators –
triangular, sawtooth, square wave and VCO.Comparators.
UNIT III
SPECIAL ICs
Introduction to 555 timer, functional diagram, monostable and astable operations and
applications, Schmitt Trigger. PLL - introduction, block schematic, principles and description
of individual blocks of 565, introduction to voltage regulators, series voltage regulator , shunt
voltage regulator and IC723 Voltage Regulator.
D-A AND A-D CONVERTERS
Introduction, basic DAC techniques, weighted resistor DAC, R-2R ladder DAC, inverted R-2R
DAC, and IC 1408 DAC, Different types of ADCs -parallel comparator type ADC, counter type
ADC, successive approximation ADC and dual slope ADC. DAC and ADC specifications.
UNIT IV
LOGIC FAMILIES
Classification of Integrated circuits, standard TTL NAND Gate- Analysis and characteristics,
TTL open collector O/Ps, Tristate TTL, MOS and CMOS open drain and tristate outputs,
CMOS transmission gate, IC interfacing-TTLdriving CMOS and CMOS driving TTL .
UNIT V
DIGITAL CIRCUIT DESIGN
Design using TTL-74XX and CMOS 40XX series, code converters, decoders, Demultiplexers,
decoders and drives for LED and LCD display. Encoder, priority Encoder, multiplexers and
their applications, priority generators/checker circuits. Digital arithmetic circuits-parallel binary
adder/subtractor circuits using 2’s, Complement system. Digital comparator circuits.
83
SEQUENTIAL CIRCUITS
Design of synchronous counters, Decade counter, shift registers and applications using TTL-
74XX and CMOS 40XX series, familiarities with commonly available 74XX and CMOS 40XX
series of IC counters.
Memories: ROM architecture, types and applications, RAM architecture, Static and Dynamic
RAMs, synchronous DRAMs.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Linear Integrated Circuits –D. Roy Chowdhury, New Age International (p) Ltd, 2ndEdition,
2008.
2. Op-Amps and Linear ICs –Ramakanth A. Gayakwad, PHI, 1987.
3.Digital Fundamentals –Floyd and Jain, Pearson Education,8thEdition, 2005.
REFERENCES:
1.Operational Amplifiers and Linear Integrated Circuits –R.F. Coughlin and Fredrick F.
Driscoll, PHI, 1977.
2.Operational Amplifiers and Linear Integrated Circuits: Theory and Applications –Denton J.
Daibey, TMH.
3.Design with Operational Amplifiers and Analog Integrated Circuits -Sergio Franco, McGraw
Hill, 3rdEdition,2002.
4.Op Amps and Linear Integrated Circuits: Concepts and Applications,Fiore,Cengage
Publications.
5. Operational Amplifiers and Linear Integrated Circuits by K.Lal Kishore-Pearson
education,2008.
84
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
III Year B.Tech EEE –I sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11EEE1109)POWER SYSTEMS-II
Objective :
This course is an extension of Power systems-I course. It deals with basic theory of
transmission lines modeling and their performance analysis. Also this course gives emphasis
on mechanical design of transmission lines, cables and insulators.
UNIT-I
Transmission Line Parameters
Types of conductors -calculation of resistance for solid conductors -Calculation of inductance
for single phase and three phase, single and double circuit lines, concept of GMR andGMD,
symmetrical and asymmetrical conductor configuration with and without transposition,
Numerical Problems.
Calculation of capacitance for 2 wire and 3 wire systems, effect of ground on capacitance,
capacitance calculations for symmetrical and asymmetrical single and three phase, single and
double circuit lines, Numerical Problems.
UNIT-II
Performance of Short and Medium Length Transmission Lines and Long Transmission
Lines
Classification of Transmission Lines - Short, medium and long line and their model
representations - Nominal-T, Nominal-Pie and A, B, C, D Constants for symmetrical and
Asymmetrical Networks, Numerical Problems.
Mathematical Solutions to estimate regulation and efficiency of all types of lines -Numerical
Problems.
Long Transmission Line-Rigorous Solution, evaluation of A,B,C,D Constants, Interpretation of
the Long Line Equations, Incident, Reflected and Refracted Waves -Surge Impedance and
SIL of Long Lines, Wave Length and Velocity of Propagation of Waves - Representation of
Long Lines - Equivalent-T and Equivalent Pie network models (numerical problems).
85
UNIT –III
Power System Transients andVarious Factors Governing the Performance of
Transmission line
Types of System Transients - Travelling or Propagation of Surges - Attenuation, Distortion,
Reflection and Refraction Coefficients -Termination of lines with different types of conditions -
Open Circuited Line, Short Circuited Line, T-Junction, Lumped Reactive Junctions (Numerical
Problems). Bewley’s Lattice Diagrams (for all the cases mentioned with numerical examples).
Skin and Proximityeffects -Description and effect on Resistance of Solid Conductors -
Ferranti effect - Charging Current - Effect on Regulation of the Transmission Line, Shunt
Compensation.
Corona -Description of the phenomenon, factors affecting corona, critical voltages and power
loss, Radio Interference.
UNIT-IV
Overhead Line Insulators andSag and Tension Calculations
Types of Insulators including polymeric insulators, String efficiency and Methods for
improvement, Numerical Problems - voltage distribution, calculation of string efficiency,
Capacitance grading and Static Shielding. Sag and Tension Calculations with equal
and unequal heights of towers, Effect of Wind and Ice on weight of Conductor, Numerical
Problems -Stringing chart and sag template and its applications.
UNIT-V
Underground Cables
Types of Cables, Construction, Types of Insulating materials, Calculations of Insulation
resistance and stress in insulation, Numerical Problems.
Capacitance of Single and 3-Core belted cables, Numerical Problems.
Grading of Cables - Capacitance grading, Numerical Problems, Description of Inter-sheath
grading.Cable Jointing, stressscons and Grading
86
TEXT BOOKS
1. A Text Book on Power System Engineering by M.L.Soni, P.V.Gupta,
U.S.Bhatnagar, A.Chakrabarthy, Dhanpat Rai andCo Pvt. Ltd.
2. Electrical power systems - by C.L.Wadhwa, New Age International (P) Limited,
Publishers,1998.
3. Power System Engineering by I.J.Nagaraj and D.P.Kothari, Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES
1. Power system Analysis-by John J Grainger William D Stevenson, TMC
Companies, 4th edition
2. Power System Analysis and Designby B.R.Gupta, Wheeler Publishing.
3. Power System Analysisby Hadi Saadat –TMH Edition.
4. Modern Power System Analysis by I.J.Nagaraj and D.P.Kothari, Tata McGraw Hill,
2ndEdition.
87
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
III Year B.Tech EEE –I sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11EEE1110) POWER ELECTRONICS
UNIT-I
Introduction to Power Electronics:
Thyristors –Silicon Controlled Rectifiers (SCR’s) –BJT –Power MOSFET –Power IGBT and
their characteristics and other thyristors – Basic theory of operation of SCR – Static
characteristics –Turn on and turn off methods-Dynamic characteristics of SCR -Turn on and
Turn off times -Salient points .
Two transistor analogy-SCR-UJT firing circuit – Series and parallel connections of SCR’s –
Snubber circuit details – Specifications and Ratings of SCR’s, Numerical problems – Line
Commutation and Forced Commutation circuits.
UNIT-II
Single Phase Controlled Converters:
Single Phase Half Controlled Converters: Phase control technique – Single phase line
commutated converters –Midpoint and Bridge connections –Half controlled converters with
Resistive, RLloads and RLE load –Derivation of average load voltage and current –Active
and Reactive power inputs to the converters without and with FreewheelingDiode –Numerical
problems
Single Phase Fully controlled Converters:Fully controlled converters, Midpointand Bridge
connections with Resistive, RL loads and RLE load-Derivation of average load voltage and
current – Line commutated inverters- Active and Reactive power inputs to the converters,
Effect of source inductance –Derivation of load voltage and current-Numerical problems.
UNIT-III
Three Phase line Commutated Converters: Three phase converters –Three pulse and six
pulse converters – Midpoint and bridge connections average load voltage with R and RL
loads –Effect of Source inductance –Dual converters (both single phase and three phase)-
Waveforms –Numerical Problems.
Choppers: Time ratio control and Current limit control strategies – Step down choppers-
Derivation of load voltage and current with R, RL, and RLE loads- Step up chopper – load
voltage expression- Jones chopper - Principle of operation and Waveforms - Numerical
Problems.
88
UNIT-IV
AC Voltage Controllers and Cyclo Converters:AC voltage controllers –Single phase two
SCR’s in anti parallel –With R and RL loads –modes of operation ofTriac –Triac with R and
RL loads – Derivation of RMS load voltage, current and power factor wave forms – Firing
circuits – Numerical problems – Cyclo converters – Single phase midpoint cyclo converters
with Resistive and inductive load (Principle of operation only)-Bridge configuration of single
phase cyclo converter (Principle of operation) –Wave forms
UNIT-V
Inverters:
Single phase inverter – Basic series inverter – Basic parallel Capacitor inverter- bridge
inverter – Wave forms-– Voltage control techniques for inverters, Pulse width modulation
techniques – Numerical Problems- Three Phase Inverters: analysis of 180 degree and 120
degree modes of operation with resistive, inductive loads.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Power Electronics –MD Singh, KB Kanchandhani, TMH publications, 2nd edition.
2. Power Electronics –Mohammed H. Rashid –Pearson Education –Third Edition –First
Indian reprint 2004.
3. Power Electronics –Ned Mohan, Tore M. Undeland and William P. Robbins –John Wiley
and Sons –Second Edition.
4. Thyristorised Power Controllers -S R Doradla,A Joshi,R.M K Sinha G K Dubey-New Age
Books
Reference Books
1. Fundamentals of Power electronics and Drives-A.Chakrabarti, Dhanpat Rai & Co Ltd.
2. Power electronics, by P C Sen-Tata McGraw-Hill Education.
3. Power electronics, by P S Bimbhra-Khanna Publishers.
89
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
III Year B.Tech EEE –I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11EEE1111) ELECTRICAL MACHINES –III
Objective
This subject is an extension of previous machinecourses. It deals with the detailed analysis of
Synchronous generators and motors which are the prime source of electrical power
generation and its utilities. Also concerns about the different types of single phase motors
which are having significant applications in house hold appliances and control systems.
UNIT –I Fundamentals of Synchronous Generators
Constructional Features of round rotor and salient pole machines – Armature windings –
Integral slot and fractional slot windings; Distributed and concentrated windings –distribution,
pitch and winding factors –E.M.F Equation.
Harmonics in generated e.m.f. – suppression of harmonics – armature reaction - leakage
reactance – synchronous reactance and impedance – experimental determination - phasor
diagram –load characteristics.
UNIT –II Regulation of Synchronous Generators
Regulation by synchronous impedance method, M.M.F. method, Z.P.F. method and A.S.A.
methods –salient pole alternators –two reaction analysis –experimental determination of X
d
and X (Slip test) Phasor diagrams –Regulation of salient pole Alternators.
q
UNIT –III ParallelOperation of Synchronous Generators
Synchronization of Alternators with infinite bus – Methods of Synchronization-synchronizing
power and torque – parallel operation and load sharing – Numerical Problems - Effect of
change of excitation and mechanical power input.Short circuit Analysis–Short circuit current
oscillogram–determination of sub-transient, transient and steady state reactances.
UNIT –IVSynchronous Motors
Construction and types of Synchronous Motors – Methods of Starting - Synchronous
Induction Motor. Variation of current and power factor with excitation control – phasor
diagrams – V and Inverted V Curves. Synchronous condenser – Applications - Problems -
Mathematical analysis for power developed. Excitation and power circles – hunting and its
suppression.
90
UNIT –V Single Phase Motors
Single phase Motors: Single phase induction motor –Constructional features-Double
revolving field theory –Elementary idea of cross-field theory –split-phase motors –shaded
pole motor.
Special Motors:Principleandperformance of A.C. Series motor-Universal motor –Principle of
permanent magnet and reluctance motors.Stepper Motors –Types.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Electric Machines –by I.J.Nagrath andD.P.Kothari, Tata Mc Graw Hill Publishers, 7th
Edition 2005.
2. Electrical Machines –by P.S. Bimbra, Khanna Publishers.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. The Performance and Design of A.C.Machines –by M.G.Say,ELBS and Ptiman and
Sons.
2. Electric Machinery – by A.E. Fitzgerald, C.Kingsley and S.Umans, Mc Graw-Hill
Companies, 5thedition, 1990.
3. Theory of Alternating Current Machinery by Langsdorf, Tata Mc Graw-Hill, 2ndedition.
4. Fundamentals of Electrical Machines, Stephen Chapman, Tata McGraw-Hill Publishers
5. Electromachanics-III (Synchronous and single phase machines),S.Kamakashiah, Right
Publishers.
91
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
III Year B.Tech EEE –I sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11ECE1204) MICROPROCESSORS AND MICROCONTROLLERS LABORATORY
I. Microprocessor 8086 and Interfacing:
1. Introduction to MASM/TASM.
2. Arithmetic operation –Multi byte Addition and Subtraction, Multiplication and Division –
Signed and unsigned Arithmetic operation, ASCII –arithmetic operation.
3. Logic operations –Shift and rotate –Converting packed BCD to unpacked BCD, BCD to
ASCII conversion.
4. By using string operation and Instruction prefix: Move Block, Reverse string, Sorting,
Inserting, Deleting, Length of the string, String comparison.
5. 8255 : Interface keyboard
6. 8255 : Interface Display
7.Serial communication between 8086 processors and PC through 8251.
II. Microcontroller 8051 and Interfacing:
1. Programming using arithmetic, logical and Bit manipulation instructions of 8051
2. Reading and Writing on a parallel port.
3. Timer in different modes
4. Serial communication between 8051 and PC
5. Interrupt programming
6. LCD Interfacing
7. Keyboard Interfacing
8. ADC Interfacing
9. DAC Interfacing
10. Stepper motor Interfacing
11. DC motor Interfacing
12. Sensor Interfacing and signal conditioning
(At least 5 interfacing experiments must be completed in addition to
programming experiments from part-II)
92
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
III Year B.Tech EEE –I sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11EEE1205) ELECTRICAL MACHINES-II LABORATORY
Cycle-I Experiments
1. No-Load and locked rotor tests on 3-phase squirrel-cage Induction Motor
2. Power angle curve and efficiency of 3-phase synchronous machine
3. Parallel operation of 3-phase Alternator with grid.
4. Regulation of 3-phase Alternator by synchronous impedance method.
5. Brake test on 3-phase squirrel cage Induction Motor
6. Equivalent Circuit andBrake test on 1-phase Induction Motor
Cycle-II Experiments
1. Scott-connected Transformer
2. Regulation of 3-phase Alternatorby ZPF Method
3. Slip test on 3-phase salient pole Alternator
4. Sumpner’s test on two identical 1-phase transformers
5. Vand inverted Vcurves of a 3-phase synchronous motor
6. Speed control of 3-phase slip ring Induction Motor
Additional Experiments
1. Sequence impedances of synchronous machines
2. Power factor improvement of 3-phase squirrel cage Induction Motor
3. Separation of iron losses of a 1-phase transformer
4. Group testing and parallel operation of 3-phase transformer
93
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
III Year B.Tech EEE –I sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11EEE1206) CONTROL SYSTEMS AND SIMULATION LABORATORY
Any Eight of the following experiments are to be conducted:
1. Time response of Second order system including MATLAB Programming and
Simulink Model
2. Characteristics of Synchros
3. Programmable logic controller –Study and verification of truth tables of logic gates,
simple Boolean expressions and application of speed control of motor.
4. Effect of feedback on DC servo motor
5. Transfer function of DC motor
6. Effect of P, PD, PI, PID Controller on a second order systems including SIMULINK
Models
7. Lag and lead compensation –Magnitude and phase plot
8. Transfer function of DC generator
9. Temperature controller using PID Controller
10. Characteristics of magnetic amplifiers
11. Characteristics of AC servo motor
12. Stepper Motor characteristics
Anyfour simulation experiments have to be conducted.
1. Introduction to MATLAB Programming: A) Solving fundamental
problems using if, while and for Loops
B) MATRIX Operations:Addition, Subtraction, determinant, Eigen values etc.
2. MATLAB Simulationof P, PI, PID Controller.
3. Linear system analysis (Time domain analysis, Error analysis)using MATLAB .
4. Stability analysis (Bode, RootLocus, Nyquist) of Linear Time Invariant system using
MATLAB
5. State space model for classicaltransfer function using MATLAB –Verification.
94
REFERENCES
1. Simulation of Electrical and electronics Circuits using PSPICE – by M.H.Rashid, M/s
PHI Publications.
2. MATLAB Manual
3. Modern Control Engineering –by Katsuhiko Ogata –Prentice Hall of India Pvt. Ltd., 3rd
edition, 1998.
95
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
III Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11HAS1103) MANAGEMENT SCIENCE
UNIT I
Introduction to management
Concepts of management - nature, importance, and functions of management; Taylor’s
scientific management theory; Fayol’s principles of management; Mayo’s Hawthorne
experiments; Maslow’s theory of human needs; Douglas McGregor’s theory X and theory Y;
Herzberg’s two-factor theory of motivation; System and contingency approach to
management; Planning – meaning, significance, and types of plans; Decision making and
steps in decision making process; Leadership styles; Social responsibilities of management.
Organizing - Meaning, and features; Process of organization; Principles of organization;
Elements of organization; Organization chart; Span of control - Graicunas formulae;
Centralization and decentralization; Types of mechanistic and organic structures of
organization-line organization, line and staff organization, functional organization, committee
organization, matrix organization, virtual organization, cellular organization, team structure,
boundary less organization, inverted pyramid structure, and lean and flat organization
structure; Their merits, demerits and suitability.
UNIT II
Human resources management
Concepts of HRM;
Basic functions of HR manager - human resource planning (definition; objectives; process),
recruitment (definition; sources; techniques), selection (definition; process), induction and
orientation, training and development (definition; need; methods), employee exit process,
employee relations management, employee compensation and benefits administration, job
evaluation (objectives; process; methods), and performance appraisals (objectives; process;
methods).
UNIT III
Strategic management
Mission; Goals; Objectives; Policy; Strategy; Programmes; Elements of corporate planning
process -environmental scanning; value chain analysis, BCG matrix, generic strategy
alternatives, SWOT analysis, and steps in strategy formulation and implementation; Balance
96
score card; Capability maturity model (CMM)/ People capability maturity model (PCMM).
UNIT IV
Operations management
Plant location; Types of plant layout; Methods of production – job, batch, and mass
production; Work study-basic procedure involved in method study and work measurement.
Materials management
Objectives; Need for inventory control; EOQ, ABC Analysis; Purchase procedure; Value
analysis; JIT, Six sigma; TQM; Supply chain management; Stores management and stores
records.
Marketing
Functions of marketing; Marketing mix, and marketing strategies based on product life cycle;
Channels of distribution.
UNIT V
Project management–network analysis
Network analysis; Programme evaluation review technique -PERT (probability of completing
the project within given time); Critical path method - CPM (Identifying critical path); Project
cost analysis; Project crashing; Simple problems.
TEXT BOOK
1. Management Science byAryasri; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill, 2009.
2. Management byJames Arthur, Finch Stoner, R. Edward Freeman, and Daniel R. Gilbert
6th Ed; Publisher: Pearson Education/Prentice Hall.
3. Principles and Practice of Management - L.M. Prasad; Publisher: Sultan Chand
Publications, New Delhi.
REFERENCES
1. Principles of Marketing: A South Asian Perspective byKotler Philip, Gary Armstrong,
Prafulla Y. Agnihotri, and Eshan ulHaque , 2010, 13th Edition, Publisher: Pearson
Education/ Prentice Hall of India.
2. A Handbook of Human Resource Management Practice by Michael Armstrong, 2010;
Publisher: Kogan Page Publishers.
3. Quantitative Techniques in Management by N.D. Vohra, 4th edition, 2010; Publisher:
Tata McGraw Hill.
4. Operations Management: Theory and Practice by B. Mahadevan, 2010; Publisher:
Pearson Education.
5. Strategic Management by V.S.P. Rao and V. Hari Krishna, 2010; Publisher: Excel
Books.
97
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
III Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11EEE1112) POWER SEMICONDUCTOR DRIVES
UNIT –I
Control of DC motors by Single phase and Three Phase Converters
Introduction to Thyristor controlled Drives, Single Phase semi and Fully controlled converters
connected to d.c separately excited and d.c series motors – continuous current operation –
output voltage and current waveforms – Speed and Torque expressions – Speed – Torque
Characteristics-Problems on Converter fed d.c motors.
Three phase semi and fully controlled converters connected to d.c separately excited and d.c
series motors – output voltage and current waveforms – Speed and Torque expressions –
Speed –Torque characteristics –Problems.
UNIT –II
Four Quadrant operation of DC Drives
Introduction to Four quadrant operation – Motoring operations, Electric Braking – Plugging,
Dynamic and Regenerative Braking operations. Four quadrant operation of D.C motors by
dual converters –Closed loop operation of DC motor (Block Diagram Only)
UNIT-III
Control of DC motors by Choppers
Single quadrant, Two –quadrant and four quadrant chopper fed dc separately excited and
series motors – Continuos current operation – Output voltage and current wave forms –
Speed and torque expressions –speed-torque characteristics –Problems on Chopper fed d.c
Motors –Closed Loop operation ( Block Diagram Only)
UNIT –IV
Control of Induction Motor through Stator voltage and Stator Frequency
Variable voltage characteristics-Control of Induction Motor by Ac Voltage Controllers –
Waveforms –speed torque characteristics.
Variable frequency characteristics-Variable frequency control of induction motor by Voltage
source and current source inverter and cyclo converters-PWM control –Comparison of VSI
98
and CSI operations –Speed torque characteristics –numerical problems on induction motor
drives –Closed loop operation of induction motor drives (Block Diagram Only)
UNIT –V
Rotor side Control of Induction motor and Control of Synchronous Motors
Static rotor resistance control –Slip power recovery –Static Scherbius drive –Static Kramer
Drive – their performance and speed torque characteristics – advantages applications –
problems-Separate control and self control of synchronous motors – Operation of self
controlled synchronous motors by VSI and CSI cycloconverters. Load commutated CSI fed
Synchronous Motor –Operation –Waveforms –speed torque characteristics –Applications –
Advantages and Numerical Problems –Closed Loop control operation of synchronous motor
drives (Block Diagram Only), variable frequency control, Cyclo converter, PWM, VFI, CSI
TEXT BOOKS
1. Fundamentals of Electric Drives –by G K Dubey,Narosa Publications
2. Power Electronic Circuits, Devices and applications by M.H.Rashid, PHIPublications.
REFERENCS
1. Power Electronics – MD Singh and K B Khanchandani, Tata – McGraw-Hill
Publications,1998
2. Modern Power Electronics and AC Drives by B.K.Bose, PHIPublications.
3. Thyristor Control of Electric drives – Vedam Subramanyam Tata McGraw Hill
Publilcations.
4. A First course on Electrical Drives – S K Pillai, New Age International (P) Ltd. 2nd
Editon.
5. Power Electronics by P.C.Sen,McGraw-Hill Professional Publications.
99
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11EEE1113) ELECTRICAL MEASUREMENTS & INSTRUMENTATION
UNIT-I
Measuring Instruments
Classification-Deflecting, Control and Damping Torques-PMMC, Moving iron type
instruments-Expression for the deflecting torque and control torque-Extension of range using
shunts and series resistance. Measurement of Power and Energy-Electrostatic Voltmeters
UNIT-II
Measurement of Resistance, Inductance and Capacitance
Measurement of low, medium and high resistances, insulation resistance measurement, AC
bridges for inductance and capacitance measurement, Megger.
UNIT-III
Instrument Transformers
Current and Potential transfers, ratio and phase angle errors, testing. Potentio meters, AC
and DC potentiometers, Calibration of Voltmeters and Ammeters.
UNIT-IV
Electronic Measurements
Electronic voltmeter, multimeter, wattmeter & energy meter. Time, Frequency and phase
angle measurements using CRO; Spectrum & Wave analyzer. Digital counter, frequency
meter, voltmeter, multimeter and storage oscilloscope.
UNIT-V
Instrumentation
Transducers, classification & selection of transducers, strain gauges, inductive & capacitive
transducers, piezoelectric and Hall-effect transducers, thermisters, thermocouples, photo-
diodes & photo-transistors, encoder type digital transducers, signal conditioning and
telemetry, basic concepts of smart sensors and application. Data Acquisition Systems.
100
TEXT BOOKS
1. “Electrical and Electronics measurements And Instrumentation”,A.K.Sawhney,
Dhanpat rai & co publications.
2. “Modern Electronic Instrumentation and MeasurementTechniques”, Helfrick and Cooper,
Prentice-Hall of India, Reprint1988.
3. “Instrumentation Measurement and Feedback”, .Jones, B.E., Tata McGraw-Hill, 1986.
REFERENCES
1.“Electrical Measurement and Measuring Instruments”, Golding,E.W, Sir Issac Pitman
and Sons, 1960.
2.Buckingham, H. and Price, E.N., “Principles of Electrical Measurements”, 1961.
101
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
III Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11EEE1114) POWER SYSTEM ANALYSIS
Objective
The main objective of this course isto study various methods of Load flow and their merits
and demerits.It alsodeals with short circuit, steadystate and transient stability analysis.
UNIT-I
Power System Network Matrices-1
Graph Theory: Basic Concepts-Branch, Link, Incidence Matrix, Bus Impedence Matrix and
Admitance Matrix, Numerical Problems. Formation of Z : Partial network, Algorithm for the
Bus
Modification of Z Matrix for addition element for the following cases: Addition of element
Bus
from a new bus to reference, Addition of element from a new bus to an old bus, Addition of
element between an old bus to reference and Addition of element between two old busses
(Derivations and Numerical Problems).- Modification of Z for the changes in network
Bus
(Problems)
UNIT –II
Power flow Studies-1
Necessity of Power Flow Studies – Data for Power Flow Studies – Derivation of load flow
equations – Load flow solutions using Gauss Seidel Method: Algorithm and Flowchart.
Numerical Load flow Solution for Simple Power Systems: Determination of Bus Voltages,
Injected Active and Reactive Powers (Sample One Iteration only) and finding Line
Flows/Losses for the given Bus Voltages.
Newton Raphson Method in Rectangular and Polar Co-Ordinates Form: Load Flow Solution -
Algorithm and Flowchart, Numerical Problems.
Principles of Decoupled and Fast Decoupled Methods.-Comparisonof Different Methods.
UNIT –III
Short Circuit Analysis-1
Per-Unit System of Representation. Per-Unit equivalent reactance network of a three phase
Power System, Numerical Problems.
102
Symmetrical fault Analysis: Short Circuit Current and MVA Calculations, Fault levels,
Application of Series Reactors, Numerical Problems.
Symmetrical Component Theory: Symmetrical Component Transformation, Positive, Negative
and Zero sequence components: Voltages, Currents and Impedances.
Sequence Networks: Positive, Negative and Zero sequence Networks, Numerical Problems.
Unsymmetrical Fault Analysis: LG, LL, LLG faults, Interconnection of sequence networks,
effect of fault impedance, Numerical Problems.
UNIT –IV
Power System Steady State Stability Analysis
Concepts of Steady State, Dynamic and Transient Stabilities, Steady State Stability Power
Limit, Transfer Reactance, Synchronizing Power Coefficient, Power Angle Curve and
Determination of Steady State Stability and Methods to improve steady state stability.
UNIT –V
Power System Transient StabilityAnalysis
Derivation of Swing Equation. Determination of Transient Stability by Equal Area Criterion,
Application of Equal Area Criterion, Critical Clearing Angle Calculation.- Solution of Swing
Equation: Point-by-Point Method. Methods to improve Stability -Application of Auto Reclosing
and Fast Operating Circuit Breakers.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Elements of Power System by Stevenson –Tata McGraw Hill
2. Computer Techniques in Power System Analysis by M.A.Pai, TMH Publications.
3. Modern Power system Analysis – by I.J.Nagrath and D.P.Kothari: Tata McGraw-Hill
Publishing company, 2ndedition.
REFERENCES
1. Power System Analysis by Grainger and Stevenson, Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Power System Analysis–by A.R.Bergen, Prentice Hall, Inc.
3. Power System Analysisby Hadi Saadat –TMH Edition.
4. Power System Analysis by B.R.Gupta, Wheeler Publications.
103
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
III Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11EEE1115) SWITCH GEAR AND PROTECTION
UNIT –I
Circuit Breakers
Circuit Breakers: Elementary principles of arc interruption, Recovery, Restriking Voltage and
Recovery voltages. -Restriking Phenomenon, Average and Max. RRRV, Numerical Problems
-Current Chopping and Resistance Switching -CB ratings and Specifications: Types, testing
of circuit breakersand Numerical Problems. –Auto reclosures.
Description and Operation of following types of circuit breakers: Minimum Oil Circuit
breakers, Air Blast Circuit Breakers, Vacuum and SF6 circuit breakers.
UNIT –II
Electromagnetic and Static Relays
Principle of Operation and Construction of Attracted armature, Balanced Beam, induction Disc
and Induction Cup relays. Relays Classification: Instantaneous, DMT and IDMT types.
Application of relays: Over current/ Under voltage relays, Direction relays, Differential Relays
and Percentage Differential Relays. Universal torque equation, Distance relays: Impedance,
Reactance and Mho and Off-Set Mho relays, Characteristics of Distance Relays and
Comparison.
Static Relays: Static Relays verses Electromagnetic Relays.
UNIT –III
Equipment Protection
Protection of generators against Stator faults, Rotor faults, and Abnormal Conditions.
Restricted Earth fault and Inter-turn fault Protection. Numerical Problems on % Winding
Unprotected.
Protection of transformers: Percentage Differential Protection, Numerical Problem on
Design of CT s Ratio, Buchholtz relay Protection.
Protection of Lines:Over Current, Carrier Current and Three-zone distance relay protection
using Impedance relays. Translay Relay.
Protection of Busbars –Differential protection
Feeder Protection and Relay coordination
104
UNIT –IV
Neutral Grounding
Grounded and Ungrounded Neutral Systems.- Effects of Ungrounded Neutral on system
performance. Methods of Neutral Grounding: Solid, Resistance, Reactance -Arcing Grounds
and Grounding Practices.
UNIT –V
Protection against over voltages
Generation of Over Voltages in Power Systems.-Protection against Lightning Over Voltages -
Valve type and Zinc-Oxide Lighting Arresters - Insulation Coordination -BIL, Impulse Ratio,
Standard Impulse Test Wave, Volt-Time Characteristics.
Text Books
1.Switchgear And Power System Protection By Singh, Ravindra P, PHI publications.
2.Switch gear andProtection by Haroon Asf, Khannapublications.
Reference Book:
1.Switch gear andProtection By M.V.Bashi U, Techinical Publications
105
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
III Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11EEE1207) ELECTRICAL MEASUREMENTS LABORATORY
1. Calibration of ac voltmeter and ac ammeter
2. Calibration and Testing of single phase energy meter
3. Measurement of % ratio error and phase angle of given C.T. by comparison.
4. Measurement of power and power factorof a single phase inductive load and to
study effect of capacitance connected acrossthe load on the power factor
5. Measurement of low resistance by Kelvin’s double bridge
6. Measurement of voltage, current and resistance using dc potentiometer
7. Schering bridgeandAnderson bridge.
8. Measurement of parameters of a choke coil using 3 voltmeter and 3 ammeter
methods.
9. Calibration LPF wattmeter –by Phantom testing
10. Measurement of Iron loss in a bar specimen using a CRO and using a wattmeter.
11. Dielectric testing of transformer oil
12. Ratio and Polarity test of Single phase transformer.
13. Verification of vector groups in three phase transformer.
106
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
III Year B.Tech EEE –IIsem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11EEE1208)POWER ELECTRONICS AND SIMULATION LABORATORY
PART A :
1. Study of Characteristicsof SCR, MOSFET & IGBT
2. Gate firing circuits for SCR’s
3. Single Phase AC Voltage Controller with R and RL Loads
4. Single Phase fully controlled bridge converter with R and RL loads
5. Forced Commutation circuits (Class A, ClassB, ClassC, ClassD andClass E)
6. DC Jones chopper with R and RL Loads
7. Single Phase Parallel, inverter with R and RL loads
8. Single Phase Cycloconverter with R and RL loads
9. Single Phase Half controlled converter with R load
10. Three Phase half controlled bridge converter with R-load
11. Single Phase series inverter with R and RL loads
12. Single Phase Bridge converter with R and RL loads
13. SinglePhase dual converter with RL loads
PART B:Simulation experiments with PSPICE/PSIM/MATLAB
1. Simulation of single-phase Half wave converter using R and RL loads
2. Simulation of single-phase full converter using R, RL and RLE loads
3. Simulation of single-phase Semi converter using R, RL and RLE loads
4. Simulation of Single-phase ACvoltage controller using R and RL loads
5. Simulation of for Single phase cyclo-converter with R and RL-loads
6. Simulation of resonant pulse commutation circuit and Buck chopper
7. Simulation of single phase Inverter with PWM control
8. Simulation of three phase fully controlled converter with R and RL loads, with and
without freewheeling diode. Observation of waveforms for Continuous, and
Discontinuous modes of operation.
107
Any Eight Experiments from PART A and Any Four Experiments from PART B are
to be conducted
REFERENCES
1. Simulation of Electric and Electronic circuits using PSPICE –by M.H.Rashid,
PHI Publications.
2. PSPICE A/D user’s manual –Microsim, USA.
3. PSPICE reference guide –Microsim, USA.
4. MATLAB andits Tool Books user’s manual and –Mathworks, USA.
108
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
III Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11HAS1204) ADVANCED ENGLISH COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
Introduction
This course aims to offer students a practical approach to Technical Writing, and provide a
relevant, contemporary and authoritative introduction to the dynamic field of technical
communication that prepares them for Workplace Communication. Each unit in the syllabus is
devised so as to include a writing component as well as an oral component.
The objectives of this course are to
i) expose students to workplace writing
ii) initiate them into the Process of Technical Communication
iii) to enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content
iv) enable students toproduce documents reflecting different types of technical
communication such as Abstracts, Proposals and Technical Reports through
ample practice
v) enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific
target audience
vi) groom students in behavioral skills
Methodology
Writing Component
A Process-Genre methodology will be used in teaching the technical genres. This method
would enable students to understand the use of particular lexico-grammatical patterns
required of in the context of technical writing. They would learn to use language to express
the particular communicative intent that is required of in the context of writing these genres.
Oral Communication Component
The objective of including Oral Communication is to impart behavioral skills and prepare
students to speak to a large group or team, keeping in mind the audience, context and
purpose of communication. This Oral Communication component must enable students to
speak in an organized and mature way, without any inhibitions. They will be groomed to relate
their speech to their audience.
109
Objectives ofOral Communication Component
i) equip students with Behavioral skills
ii) prepare them for Oral presentations, and Group Discussions
iii) equip them with Interview skills
Syllabus Outline
Unit I
1. Applications and Covering letters
2. Resume Writing
3. Oral Communication :Self Introduction
Unit II
1. Introduction to Technical Writing
 Defining Technical Writing
 Distinguishing it from other types of writing
 Determining audience, purpose and context
2.Summarizing and Synthesizing Information
3. Behavioral Skills and Personality Development
a) Building a Positive Attitude, Building a Positive Personality, Motivation, Goal Setting &
Values &
Vision
b) Problem Solving and Decision Making; Negotiation Skills through Role Play
c) Team Building and Leadership Abilities
Unit III
1. Verbal Ability : Language, Reasoning Skills, Analytical Ability, Reading and Listening Skills
2. Oral Communication: Presentation Skills (Oral and Visual)
Unit IV
1. Writing Research Abstracts
2. Oral Communication: Group Discussions
Unit V.
1. Writing Project Proposals
2. Writing Project Reports
3. Oral Communication: Interview Skills
110
REQUIRED TEXT BOOKS AND MATERIALS
1. Technical Writing: Process and Product by Sharon J. Gerson and Steven M.
Gerson (1999); Publisher: Prentice Hall.
2. Effective Technical Communication byAshraf Rizvi, M., (2005); Publisher: Tata Mc
Graw Hill.
3. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical
Communication: A Reader-Centered Approach (5th ed.) (pp. 457-473). Boston:
Heinle.
REFERENCES
1. Technical Communication by Rebecca E. Burnett, 5th edition (2001); Publisher:
Thomson/Wadsworth
2. Technical Communication: A Practical Approach (7th ed.) by William S. Pfeiffer;
Publisher: Person education
3. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies byMike Markel (2006-2007);
Publisher: Bedford/ St. Martins.
4. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Three Types of Special Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's
Technical Communication: A Reader-Centered Approach (5thed..) ( (pp. 474-513).
Boston:Heinle.
5. Bolter, Jay David (2001), “The Late Age of Print” in Robert P. Yagelski's Literacies
and Technologies: A Reader for Contemporary Writers (135-145); Publisher:
Longman.
6. Brandt, Deborah. (1998) Sponsors of literacy. College Composition and
Communication 49.2, 165-185.
7. Burnett, Rebecca, E. (2001) “Locating and Recording Information” in Rebecca E.
Burnett's Technical Communication (pp. 164-195).
8. Johnson-Sheehan, Richard (2007). “Starting Your Career” in Richard Johnson-
Sheehan's Technical Communication Today (2nd ed.) (pp. 388-402). New York:
Longman.
9. Business Correspondence and Report Writing by R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan,
Third Edition (2002); Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
10. TechnicalCommunication: Principles and Practices by M. Raman and S. Sharma
(Indian edition; 2004); Publisher: Oxford University Press.
111
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –I sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11EEE1116) POWER SYSTEM OPERATION AND CONTROL
Objective :
This subject deals with Economic operation of Power Systems, Hydrothermal scheduling and
modeling of turbines, generators and automatic controllers. It emphasizes on single area and
two area load frequency control and reactive power control.
UNIT –I
Economic Operation of Power Systems
Optimal operation of Generators in Thermal Power Stations, -heat rate Curve –Cost Curve –
Incremental fuel and Production costs, input-output characteristics, Optimum generation
allocation with line losses neglected, Unit commitment.
Optimum generation allocation including the effect of transmission line losses – Loss
Coefficients, General transmission line loss formula.
UNIT –II
Hydrothermal Scheduling : Optimal scheduling of Hydrothermal System: Hydroelectric
power plant models, Scheduling problems-Short term Hydrothermal scheduling problem.
Modelling of Turbine : Modelling of Turbine: First order Turbine model, Block Diagram
representation of Steam Turbines and Approximate Linear Models.
UNIT –III Modelling of Generator and Automatic Controllers
Modelling of Generator (Steady State and Transient Models): Description of Simplified
Network Model of a Synchronous Machine (Classical Model), Description of Swing Equation
(No Derivation) and State-Space II-Order Mathematical Model of Synchronous Machine.
Modeling of Governer: Mathematical Modelling of Speed Governing System – Derivation of
small signal transfer function.
Modelling of Excitation System: Fundamental Characteristics of an Excitation system,
Transfer function, Block Diagram Representation of IEEE Type-1 Model.
112
UNIT –IV
Single Area Load Frequency Control:Necessity of keeping frequency constant. Definitions
of Control area – Single area control – Block diagram representation of an isolated power
system –Steady state analysis –Dynamic response –Uncontrolled case.
Two-Area Load Frequency Control: Load frequency control of 2-area system –uncontrolled
case and controlled case, tie-line bias control. Power pools and pool operation, advantages.
Inter area and Intra area controls.
UNIT –V
Load Frequency Controllers
Proportional plus Integral control of single area and its block diagram representation, steady
state response –Automatic Generation Control and Economic dispatch control.
Reactive Power Control
Overview of Reactive Power control –Reactive Power compensation in transmission systems
– advantages and disadvantages of different types of compensating equipment for
transmission systems; load compensation – Specifications of load compensator,
Uncompensated and compensated transmission lines: shunt and Series Compensation.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Electrical Power Systems by C.L.Wadhwa, Newage International-3rdEdition
2. Modern Power System Analysis – by I.J.Nagrath and D.P.Kothari Tata M Graw – Hill
Publishing Company Ltd, 2ndedition.
3. Electric Energy systems Theory–by O.I.Elgerd, Tata Mc Graw-hill Publishing Company
Ltd., Second edition.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Power System Analysis and Designby J.DuncanGlover and M.S.Sarma., THOMPSON,
3rd Edition.
2 Power System Analysis by Grainger and Stevenson, Tata McGraw Hill.
3 Power System Analysisby Hadi Saadat –TMH Edition.
4. Economic Operation of Power Systems. by Kirchmayer, John Wiley Publications.
113
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –I sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11ECE1109) DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING
UNIT I
Introduction:Introduction to Digital Signal Processing: Discrete time signals and sequences,
linear shift invariant systems, stability, and causality. Applications of Z-Transforms Solution of
Linear constant coefficient difference equations, Block diagram representation of LCCD
equations. System function, Frequency domain representation of discrete time signals and
systems.
Discrete Fourier series:Properties of discrete Fourier series, DFS representation of periodic
sequences, Relation between Z-transform and DFS.
UNIT II
Discrete Fourier Transforms: Properties of DFT, linear convolution of sequences using
DFT, Computation of DFT.
Fast Fourier Transforms: Fast Fourier transforms (FFT) – Radix-2 decimation in time and
decimation in frequency FFT Algorithms, Inverse FFT, and FFT for composite N.
UNIT III
IIR Digital Filters: Analog filter approximations- Butterworth and Chebyshev, Design of IIR
Digital filters from analog filters, Step and Impulse invariance transformation techniques,
Bilinear transformation method. Spectral transformations(Analog to Analog).
Realization of IIR Filters: Direct, Canonic, Cascade, Parallel and Ladder forms.
UNIT IV
FIR Digital Filters : Introduction to characteristics of linear phase FIR filters, Frequency
response, Design of FIR filters : Fourier Method, windowing methods: Rectangular window,
Hanning window, Hamming window, Generalized Hamming window, Bartlett triangular
window, Frequency Sampling method, Comparison of IIR and FIR filters.
Realization of FIR Filters: Direct form, cascade realization and Linear phase Realization.
UNIT V
Multirate Digital Signal Processing:Introduction, Down sampling, Decimation, Up
sampling, Interpolation, sampling rate conversion, Implementation of sampling rate
conversion, Applications of Multirate Signal Processing.
114
Finite Word Length Effects:Limit cycles, Overflow oscillations, Round-off noise in IIR digital
filters , Computational output round off noise, Methods to prevent overflow, Trade off between
round off and overflow noise, Measurement of coefficient quantization effects through pole-
zero movement, Dead band effects.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Digital Signal Processing: Principles, Algorithms and Applications – John
G.Proakis,, D.G.Manolakis, 3rdEdition, Perason/PHI, 2007.
2. Discrete Time Signal Processing –A.V.Oppenheim and R.W. Schaffer, PHI, 2009
3. Digital Signal Processing –A Pratical Approach –Emmanuel C.Ifeacher, Barrie. W.
Jervis, 2ndEdition., Pearson Education, 2009.
REFERENCES
1. Digital Signal Processing-Fundamentals and Applications –Li Tan, Elsevier , 2008.
2. Fundamentals of Digital signal Processing using MatLab-Robert J.Schilling, Sandra
L.Harris, Thomson , 2007.
3. Digital Signal Processing –S.Salivahanan, A.Vallavaraj, C.Gnanapriya,TMH , 2009.
4. Fundamentals of Digital Signal Processing -Loney Ludeman, John Wiley ,2009.
5. Discrete Systems and Digital Signal Processing with MatLab -Taan S. EIAli, CRC
Press ,2009.
115
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –I sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
Elective-I
(R11EEE1117)ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS
UNIT I
GENERAL CONCEPTS: Introduction to distribution systems, Load modelling and
characteristics. Coincidence factor, contribution factor loss factor -Relationship between the
load factor and loss factor. Classification of loads (Residential, commercial, Agricultural and
Industrial) and their characteristics.
UNIT II
DISTRIBUTION FEEDERS AND SUBSTATIONS: Design Considerations of Distribution
Feeders: Radial and loop types of primary feeders, voltage levels, feeder loading; basic
design practice of the secondary distribution system. Substations, Location of Substations:
Rating of distribution substation, service area within primary feeders. Benefits derived through
optimal location of substations.
UNIT III
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM ANALYSIS: Voltage drop and power-loss calculations: Derivation
for voltage drop and power loss in lines, manual methods of solution for radial networks, three
phase balanced primary lines.
UNIT IV
PROTECTION: Objectives of distribution system protection, types of common faults and
procedure for fault calculations. Protective Devices: Principle of operation of Fuses, Circuit
Reclosures, line sectionalizers, and circuit breakers Coordination of Protective Devices:
General coordination procedure Concepts of Smart grid and demand side management.
UNIT V
ENHANCEMENT OF POWER QUALITY : Analysis of Power Quality indices Capacitive
compensation for power-factor control. Different types of power capacitors, shunt and series
capacitors, effect of shunt capacitors (Fixed and switched), Power factor correction, capacitor
allocation - Economic justification - Procedure to determine the best capacitor location.
Voltage Control: Equipment for voltage control, effect of series capacitors, effect of AVB/AVR,
line drop compensation.
116
TEXT BOOKS
1. Electric Power Distribution system, Engineering –by Turan Gonen, TMH.
2. Electric Power Distribution –by A.S. Pabla, Tata Mc Graw-hill Publishing Company, 6th
edition, 1997.
REFERENCES
1.Electrical Power Distribution and Automation by S.Sivanagaraju,V.Sankar,Dhanpat Rai and
Co, pvt. Ltd.
2. Electrical Power Distribution Systems by V.Kamaraju,TMH Publishers, 2nd Edition.
117
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –I sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
Elective-I
(R11EEE1118) RELIABILITY ENGINEERING ANDAPPLICATIONS TO POWER SYSTEMS
UNIT –I
Basics of Probability theory and Distribution: Concepts of Reliability, Unreliability,
Availability, Unavailability–rules for combining probabilities of events – Bernoulli’s trials –
probability density and distribution functions – binomial distribution – expected value and
standard deviation of binomial distribution, Applications of binomial distribution.
UNIT –II
Network Modelling and Reliability Analysis: Analysis of Series, Parallel, Series-Parallel
networks–complex networks: decomposition method, Path based and Cutset based
approaches.
Reliability functions : Reliability functions f(t), F(t), R(t), h(t) and their relationships –
exponential distribution –Expected value and standard deviation of exponential distribution –
Bath tub curve –reliability analysis of series parallel networks using exponential distribution –
reliability measures MTTF, MTTR, MTBF.
UNIT –III
Markov Modelling: Discrete Markov chains: General modeling concepts-concept of
stochastic transitional probability Matrix, Evaluation of limiting state Probabilities, Continuous
Markov processes: one component repairable model –time dependent probability evaluation
using Laplace transform approach – evaluation of limiting state probabilities using STPM –
two component repairable models.
Frequency and Duration Techniques : Frequency and duration concept – Evaluation of
frequency of encountering state, MTTF and MTTR of one , two component repairable models
– evaluation of cumulative probability and cumulative frequency of encountering of merged
states of two component repairable model.
118
UNIT –IV
Generation System Reliability Analysis : Reliability model of a generation system :
recursive relation for unit addition and removal , load modeling -Merging of generation load
model – evaluation of transition rates for merged state model – cumulative Probability,
cumulative frequency of failure evaluation –LOLP, LOLE.
UNIT –V
Composite System Reliability Analysis: Decomposition method – Reliability Indices –
Weather Effects on Transmission Lines.
Distribution System and Reliability Analysis: Basic Concepts – Evaluation of Basic and
performance reliability indices of radial networks.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Reliability Evaluation of Engg. System –R. Billinton, R.N.Allan, BS Publications.
2. Reliability Evaluation of Power systems –R. Billinton, R.N.Allan, BS Publications.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. “Reliability Engineering: Theory and Practice”, By Alessandro Birolini, Springer
Publications.
2. “An Introduction to Reliability and Maintainability Engineering”, Charles Ebeling, TMH
Publications.
3. “Reliability Engineering”, E. Balaguruswamy, TMH Publications.
4. “Reliability Engineering”, Elsayed A. Elsayed, Prentice Hall Publications.
119
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –I sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
Elective-I
(R11MED1157) OPTIMIZATION TECHNIQUES
UNIT –I
Introduction and Classical Optimization Techniques:
Statement of an Optimization problem – design vector – design constraints – constraint
surface – objective function – objective function surfaces – classification of Optimization
problems.
Classical Optimization Techniques
Single variable Optimization –multi variable Optimization without constraints –necessary and
sufficient conditions for minimum/maximum – multivariable Optimization with equality
constraints.
Solution by method of Lagrange multipliers – multivariable Optimization with inequality
constraints –Kuhn –Tucker conditions.
UNIT –II
Linear Programming
Standard form of a linear programming problem –geometry of linear programming problems –
definitions and theorems – solution of a system of linear simultaneous equations – pivotal
reduction of a general system of equations – motivation to the simplex method – simplex
algorithm.
Transportation Problem
Finding initial basic feasible solution by north – west corner rule, least cost method and
Vogel’s approximation method –testing for optimality of balanced transportation problems.
UNIT –III
Unconstrained Nonlinear Programming:
One – dimensional minimization methods: Classification, Fibonacci method and Quadratic
interpolation method
Unconstrained Optimization Techniques
Univariate method, Powell’s method and steepest descent method.
120
UNIT –IV
Constrained Nonlinear Programming:
Characteristics of a constrained problem, Classification, Basic approach of Penalty Function
method; Basic approaches of Interior and Exterior penalty function methods. Introduction to
convex ProgrammingProblem.
UNIT –V
Dynamic Programming:
Dynamic programming multistage decision processes –types –concept of sub optimization
and the principle of optimality – computational procedure in dynamic programming –
examples illustrating the calculus method of solution - examples illustrating the tabular
method of solution.
TEXT BOOKS
1. “Engineering optimization: Theory and practice”-by S. S.Rao, New Age International (P)
Limited, 3rdedition, 1998.
2. “ Introductory Operations Research” by H.S. Kasene and K.D. Kumar, Springer(India),
Pvt .LTd.
REFERENCES
1 “ Optimization Methods in Operations Research and systems Analysis” –by K.V. Mital
and C. Mohan, New Age International (P) Limited, Publishers, 3rdedition, 1996.
2. Operations Research –by Dr. S.D.Sharma.
3. “Operations Research : An Introduction” –by H.A. Taha, PHI Pvt. Ltd., 6thedition
4. Linear Programming –by G. Hadley
121
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –I sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
Elective-I
(R11EEE1119) NEURAL NETWORKS AND FUZZY LOGIC
Objective :
This course introduces the basics of Neural Networks and essentials of Artificial Neural
Networks with Single Layer and Multilayer Feed Forward Networks. Also deals with Associate
Memories and introduces Fuzzy sets and Fuzzy Logic system components. The Neural
Network and Fuzzy Network system application to Electrical Engineering is also presented.
This subject is very important and useful for doing Project Work.
Unit –I:
Introduction to Neural Networks
Introduction, Humans and Computers, Organization of the Brain, Biological Neuron, Biological
and Artificial Neuron Models, Hodgkin-Huxley Neuron Model, Integrate-and-Fire Neuron
Model, Spiking Neuron Model, Characteristics of ANN, McCulloch-Pitts Model, Historical
Developments, Potential Applications of ANN.
Essentials of Artificial Neural Networks
Artificial Neuron Model, Operations of Artificial Neuron, Types of Neuron Activation Function,
ANN Architectures, Classification Taxonomy of ANN – Connectivity, Neural Dynamics
(Activation and Synaptic), Learning Strategy (Supervised, Unsupervised, Reinforcement),
Learning Rules, Types of Application.
Unit–II: Single Layer Feed Forward Neural Networks
Introduction, Perceptron Models: Discrete, Continuous and Multi-Category, Training
Algorithms: Discrete and Continuous Perceptron Networks, Perceptron Convergence
theorem, Limitations of the Perceptron Model, Applications.
Multilayer Feed forward Neural Networks
Credit Assignment Problem, Generalized Delta Rule, Derivation of Back propagation (BP)
Training, Summary of Backpropagation Algorithm, Kolmogorov Theorem, Learning Difficulties
and Improvements.
Unit III: Associative Memories
Paradigms of Associative Memory, Pattern Mathematics, Hebbian Learning, General
Concepts of Associative Memory (Associative Matrix, Association Rules, Hamming Distance,
The Linear Associator, Matrix Memories, Content Addressable Memory), Bidirectional
122
Associative Memory (BAM) Architecture, BAM Training Algorithms: Storage and Recall
Algorithm, BAM Energy Function, Proof of BAM Stability Theorem
Architecture of Hopfield Network: Discrete and Continuous versions, Storage and Recall
Algorithm, Stability Analysis, Capacity of the Hopfield Network
Summary and Discussion of Instance/Memory Based Learning Algorithms, Applications.
Unit –IV:
Classical and Fuzzy Sets
Introduction to classical sets -properties, Operations and relations; Fuzzy sets, Membership,
Uncertainty, Operations, properties, fuzzy relations, cardinalities, membership functions.
Fuzzy Logic System Components
Fuzzification, Membership value assignment, development of rule base and decision making
system, Defuzzification to crisp sets, Defuzzification methods.
UNIT V: Applications
Neural network applications: Process identification, control, fault diagnosis and load
forecasting.
Fuzzy logic applications: Fuzzy logic control and Fuzzy classification.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Neural Networks, Fuzzy logic, Genetic algorithms: synthesis and applications by
Rajasekharan and Rai –PHI Publications.
2. Artificial neural networks, B.Yegnarayana, PHI publications.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Neural Networks –James A Freeman and Davis Skapura, Pearson Education, 2002.
2. Neural Networks –Simon Hakins , Pearson Education
3. Neural Engineering by C.Eliasmith and CH.Anderson, PHIPublications.
4. Neural Networks and Fuzzy Logic System by Bart Kosko, PHI Publications.
5. Introduction to Artificial Neural Systems, J.M.Zurada, Jaico Publishing House.
6. Introduction to Neural Networks using MATLAB 6.0 - S.N.Sivanandam, S.Sumathi,
S.N.Deepa, TMH, 2006.
123
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –I sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
Elective-II
(R11EEE1120) SPECIAL ELECTRICAL MACHINESAND CONTROL
UNIT-I
Stepping Motors
Constructional features, principle of operation, modes of excitation, single phase stepping
motors, torque production in variable Reluctance (VR) stepping motor, Dynamic
characteristics, Drive systems and circuit for open loop control, Closed loop control of
stepping motor, microprocessor based controller.
UNIT-II
Synchronous Reluctance Motors
Constructional features: axial and radial air gap Motors. Operating principle, reluctance torque
–Phasor diagram, motor characteristics, linear induction motors.
UNIT-III
Switched Reluctance Motors
Constructional features, principle of operation. Torque equation, Power controllers,
Characteristics and control. Microprocessor based controller. Sensor less control.
.
UNIT-IV
Permanent Magnet Brushless DC Motors
Commutation in DC motors, Difference between mechanical and electronic commutators, Hall
sensors, Optical sensors, Multiphase Brushless motor, Square wave permanent magnet
brushless motor drives, Torque and emf equation, Torque-speed characteristics, Controllers-
Microprocessor based controller. Sensorless control.
UNIT-V
Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motors
Principle of operation, EMFequation, power input and torque expressions, Phasor diagram,
Power controllers, Torque speed characteristics, Self control, Vector control, Current control
schemes. Sensor less control.
124
TEXT BOOKS
1. T.J.E. Miller, „Brushless Permanent Magnet and Reluctance Motor Drives‟, Clarendon
Press, Oxford, 1989.
2. P.P. Aearnley, „Stepping Motors –A Guide to Motor Theory and Practice‟, Peter
Perengrinus, London, 1982.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. T. Kenjo, „Stepping Motors and Their Microprocessor Controls‟, Clarendon Press London,
1984.
2. T. Kenjo and S. Nagamori, „Permanent Magnet and Brushless DC Motors‟, Clarendon
Press, London, 1988.
125
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –I sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
Elective-II
(R11ECE1110) VLSI DESIGN
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION: Introduction to MOS Technology – MOS, PMOS, NMOS, CMOS and
BiCMOS technologies- Oxidation, Lithography, Diffusion, Ion implantation, Metallization,
Encapsulation , Packing
BASIC ELECTRICAL PROPERTIES : Basic Electrical Properties of MOS ,CMOS and
BiCMOS Circuits: Ids-Vds relationships, MOS transistor threshold Voltage, gm, gds, figure of
merit w, Pass transistor, NMOS inverter, Various pull ups, Determination of pull-up to pull-
o
down ratio( Z / Z ) , CMOS Inverter analysis and design, BiCMOS inverters, Latch-up in
pu pd
CMOS circuits.
UNIT II
VLSI CIRCUIT DESIGN PROCESSES : VLSI Design Flow, MOS Layers, Stick Diagrams,
Design Rules and Layouts, Lambda based design rules, Contact cuts , CMOS Lambda
based design rules, Layout Diagrams for logic gates, Transistor structures ,wires and vias,
Scaling of MOS circuits- Scaling models, scaling factors, scaling factors for device
parameters, Limitations of Scaling.
UNIT III
GATE LEVEL DESIGN AND LAYOUT: Architectural issues, Switch logic networks:
Implementation of AND,OR and Multiplexer , Gate logic , Other forms of CMOS logic-Pseudo-
NMOS , Dynamic CMOS logic. Basic circuit concepts, Sheet Resistance R and its concept
S
to MOS, Area Capacitance Units, Calculations, The delay unit T, Inverter Delays, Driving
large Capacitive Loads, Wiring Capacitances, Fan-in and fan-out, Choice of layers.
UNIT IV
SUBSYSTEM DESIGN Process: Subsystem Design, Shifters, Adders, ALUs, Multipliers,
Parity generator, Comparators, Zero/One Detectors, Counters, Memory elements.
SEMICONDUCTOR INTEGRATED CIRCUIT DESIGN: PLDs, FPGAs, CPLDs, Standard
Cells, Programmable Array Logic, Design Approach.
UNIT V
VHDL SYNTHESIS : VHDL Synthesis, Circuit Design Flow, Circuit Synthesis, Simulation,
Layout, Design capture tools, Design Verification Tools.
126
CMOS TESTING : CMOS Testing, Need for testing, Test Principles, Design Strategies for
test, Over view of Chip level Test Techniques and System-level Test Techniques, Layout
Design for Improved Testability.
TEXTBOOKS
1. Essentials of VLSI circuits and systems –Kamran Eshraghian, Eshraghian Dougles and A.
Pucknell, PHI, Edition, 2005.
2. VLSI DESIGN –K.Lal Kishore , VSV Prabhakar –I.K..International ,2009
3. CMOS VLSI Design –A circuits and systems perspective, Neil H.E Weste , David Harris ,
Ayan Banerjee, pearson ,2009.
REFERENCES
1. CMOS logic circuit Design –John P. Uyemura , Springer , 2007
2. Moderan VLSI Design –Wayne Wolf, Pearson Education , 3rdEdition,1997.
3. VLSI Design –A.Albert Raj, Latha PHI, 2008.
4. .Introduction to VLSI Design-Mead and Convey , BS Publcations, 2010.
5. VLSI Design –M. Michal Vai, CRC Press, 2009.
127
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –I sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
Elective-II
(R11EEE1121) POWER PLANT INSTRUMENTATION AND CONTROL
UNIT I
OVERVIEW OF POWER GENERATION
Brief survey of methods of power generation –Hydro, thermal, nuclear, solar and wind power
–Importance of instrumentation in power generation –Thermal power plants –Block diagram
–Details of boiler processes -Cogeneration.
UNIT II
MEASUREMENTS IN POWER PLANTS
Electrical measurements –Current, voltage, power, frequency, power factoretc. –Non
electrical parameters –Flow of feed water, fuel, air and steam with correction factor for
temperature –Steam pressure and steam temperature –Drum level measurement –
Radiation detector –Smoke density measurement –Dust monitor.
UNIT III
ANALYSERS IN POWER PLANTS
Flue gas oxygen analyser –Analysis of impurities in feed water and steam –Dissolved
oxygen analyser –Chromatography –pH meter –Fuel analyser –Pollution monitoring
instruments.
UNIT IV
CONTROL LOOPS IN BOILER
Combustion control –Air/fuel ratio control –Furnace draft control –Drum level control –Main
steam and reheat steam temperature control –Super heater control –Air temperature –
Deaerator control –Distributed control system in power plants –Interlocks in boiler operation.
UNIT V
TURBINE –MONITORING AND CONTROL
Speed, vibration, shell temperature monitoring and control –Steam pressure control –
Lubricant oil temperature control –Cooling system.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Sam G. Dukelow, ‘The Control of Boilers’, InstrumentSociety of America, 1991.
2. P.K. Nag, ‘Power Plant Engineering’, Tata McGraw Hill, 2001.
3. Modern Power Stations Practice, vol. 6, Instrumentation, Controls and Testing-Pergamon
Press, Oxford, 1971.
4. Power Plant Technology –by Wakil M.M., Tata McGraw Hill.
128
REFERENCES
1.S.M. Elonka and A.L. Kohal, ‘Standard Boiler Operations’, Tata McGraw Hill, New
Delhi,1994.
2.R.K.Jain, ‘Mechanical and Industrial Measurements’, Khanna Publishers, New Delhi, 1995.
3.E.Al. Wakil, ‘Power Plant Engineering’, Tata McGraw Hill, 1984.-
4.Standard Boiler Operations -Questions and Answers –by Elonka S.M., and Kohal A.L.,
TMH, New Delhi, 1994.
129
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –I sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
Elective-II
(R11EEE1122) HIGH VOLTAGE ENGINEERING
UNITI
INTRODUCTION TO HIGH VOLTAGE TECHNOLOGY AND APPLICATIONS
Electric Field Stresses, Gas / Vaccum as Insulator, Liquid Dielectrics, Solids and Composites,
Estimation and Control of Electric Stress, Numerical methods for electric field computation,
Surge voltages, their distribution and control, Applications of insulating materials in
transformers, rotating machines, circuit breakers, cable power capacitors and bushings.
UNIT II
BREAK DOWN IN GASEOUS, LIQUID AND SOLID DIELECTRICS
Gases as insulating media, collision process, Ionization process, Townsend’s criteria of
breakdown in gases, Paschen’s law. Liquid as Insulator, pure and commercial liquids,
breakdown in pure and commercial liquids.
Intrinsic breakdown, electromechanical breakdown, thermal breakdown, breakdown of solid
dielectrics in practice, Breakdown in composite dielectrics, solid dielectrics used in practice.
UNIT III
GENERATION OF HIGH VOLTAGES AND CURRENTS
Generation of High Direct Current Voltages, Generation of High alternating voltages,
Generation of Impulse Voltages, Generation of Impulse currents, Tripping and control of
impulse generators.
UNIT IV
MEASUREMENT OF HIGH VOLTAGES AND CURRENTS
Measurement of High Direct Current voltages, Measurement of High Voltages alternating and
impulse, Measurement of High Currents-direct, alternating and Impulse, Oscilloscope for
impulse voltage and current measurements. Measurement of D.C Resistivity, Measurement of
Dielectric Constant and loss factor, Partial discharge measurements
130
UNIT V
OVER VOLTAGE PHENOMENON AND TESTING OF ELECTRICAL APPARATUS
Natural causes for over voltages – Lightning phenomenon, Over voltage due to switching
surges, system faults and other abnormal conditions, Principles of Insulation Coordination on
High voltage and Extra High Voltage power systems. Testing of Insulators and bushings,
Testing of Isolators and circuit breakers, Testing of cables, Testing of Transformers, Testing
of Surge Arresters, Radio Interference measurements.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. High Voltage Engineering by M.S.Naidu and V. Kamaraju –TMH Publications, 3rd
Edition
2. High Voltage Engineering: Fundamentals by E.Kuffel, W.S.Zaengl, J.Kuffel by
Elsevier, 2ndEdition.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. High Voltage Engineering by C.L.Wadhwa, New Age Internationals (P) Limited,
1997.
2. High Voltage Insulation Engineering by Ravindra Arora, Wolfgang Mosch, New Age
International (P) Limited, 1995.
131
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –I sem L T/P/D C
0 4 4
Elective-III
(R11EEE1123)HVDC TRANSMISSION
UNIT –I
BASIC CONCEPTS
Economics andTerminal equipment of HVDC transmission systems: Types of HVDC Links –
Apparatus required for HVDC Systems –Comparison of AC andDC Transmission, Application
of DC Transmission System –Planning andModern trends in D.C. Transmission.
ANALYSIS OF HVDC CONVERTERS
Choice of Converter configuration –analysis of Graetz –characteristics of 6 Pulse and12 Pulse
converters –Cases of two 3 phase converters in star –star mode –their performance.
UNIT –II
CONVERTER andHVDC SYSTEM CONTROL
Principal of DC Link Control –Converters Control Characteristics –Firing angle control –
Current and extinction angle control –Effect of source inductance on the system; Starting and
stopping of DC link; Power Control.
REACTIVE POWER CONTROL IN HVDC
Reactive Power Requirements in steady state-Conventional control strategies-Alternate
control strategies-sources of reactive power-AC Filters –shunt capacitors-synchronous
condensers.
UNIT –III
POWER FLOW ANALYSIS IN AC/DC SYSTEMS
Modelling of DC Links-DC Network-DC Converter-Controller Equations-Solution of DC
loadflow – P.U. System for DC quantities-solution of AC-DC Power flow-Simultaneous
method-Sequential method.
UNIT-IV
CONVERTER FAULT andPROTECTION
Converter faults – protection against over current and over voltage in converter station –
surge arresters – smoothing reactors – DC breakers –Audible noise-space charge field-
corona effects on DC lines-Radio interference.
132
UNIT –V
HARMONICS
Generation of Harmonics –Characteristic harmonics, calculation of AC Harmonics, Non-
Characteristic harmonics, adverse effects of harmonics –Calculation of voltage andCurrent
harmonics –Effect of Pulse number on harmonics
FILTERS
Types of AC filters, Design of Single tuned filters –Design of High pass filters.
TEXT BOOKS
1. HVDC Power Transmission Systems: Technology and system Interactions – by
K.R.Padiyar, New Age International (P) Limited, and Publishers.
2. HVDC Transmission, S K Kamakshaiah, VKamaraju, TMH Publishers.
3. EHVAC and HVDC Transmission Engineering and Practice – S.Rao, Khanna
Publications.
REFERENCES
1. HVDC Transmission –J.Arrillaga, IEE Power and Energy series.
2. Direct Current Transmission –by E.W.Kimbark, John Wiley andSons.
3. Power Transmission by Direct Current –by E.Uhlmann, B.S.Publications.
133
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –I sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
Elective-III (R11EEE1124)LINEAR SYSTEM ANALYSIS
UNIT-I STATE VARIABLE ANALYSIS
Choice of state variables in Electrical networks-Formulation of state equations for Electrical
networks-Equivalent source method.Network topological method -Solution of state equations-
Analysis of simple networks with state variable approach.
UNIT–II FOURIER SERIES AND FOURIER TRANSFORM REPRESENTSATION
Introduction, Trigonometric form of Fourier series, Exponential form of Fourier series, Wave
symmetry, Fourier integrals and transforms, Fourier transform of a periodic function ,
Properties of Fourier Transform , Parseval’s theorem , Fourier transform of some common
signals, Fourier transform relationship with Laplace Transform.
APPLICATIONS OF FOURIER SERIES AND FOURIER TRANSFORM REPRESENTATION
Introduction, Effective value and average values of non sinusoidal periodic waves, currents,
Power Factor, Effects of harmonics, Application in Circuit Analysis, Circuit Analysis using
Fourier Series.
UNIT –III LAPLACE TRANSFORM APPLICATIONS
Application of Laplace transform Methods of Ananlysis – Response of RL, RC, RLC
Networks to Step, Ramp, and impulse functions, Shifting Theorem –Convolution Integral –
Applications
TESTING OF POLYNOMIALS
Elements of realisability-Hurwitz polynomials-positive real functions-Properties-Testing-
Sturm’s Test, examples.
UNIT-IV NETWORK SYSNTHESIS
Network synthesis:Synthesis of one port LC networks-Foster and Cauer methods-Synthesis
of RL and RC one port networks-Foster and Cauer methods
134
SAMPLING
Sampling theorm –Graphical and Analytical proof for Band Limited Signal impulse sampling,
natural and Flat top Sampling, Reconstruction of signal from its samples, effect of under
sampling – Aliasing, introduction to Band Pass sampling, Cross correlation and auto
correlation of functions, properties of correlation function, Energy density spectrum, Power
density spectrum, Relation between auto correlation function and Energy / Power spectral
density function.
UNIT-VZ-TRANSFORMS
Fundamental difference between continous and discrete time signals, discrete time complex,
exponential and sinusoidal signals, periodicity of discrete time complex exponential, concept
of Z-Transform of a discrete sequence. Distinction between Laplace, Fourier and Z-
Transforms. Region of convergence in Z-Transforms, constraints on ROC for various classes
of signals, Inverse Z-Transform, properties of Z-Transforms.
TEXT BOOKS:
1.Signals, Systems and Communications by B.P. Lathi, BS Publications 2003.
2.Network Analysis and Synthesis –Umesh Sinha-Satya Prakashan Publications.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Linear System Analysis –A N Tripathi, New Age International
2. Network and Systems –D Roy Chowdhary, New Age International
3 Engineering Network Analysis and Filter Desgin-Gopal G Bhisk and Umesh
4. Linear system anlysis by A.Cheng, Oxford publishers.
135
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-III 4 0 4
(R11CSE1114) OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING
UNIT –I
Fundamentals of Object Oriented programming:Object Oriented paradigm -Basic
concepts of Object Oriented Programming -Benefits of OOP -Applications of OOP
Java Evolution: Java Features -How Java differs from C and C++ -Java and Internet -Java
and World Wide Web -Web Browsers -Hardware and Software Requirements -Java
Environment. Overview of Java Language: Simple Java Program -Java Program Structure -
Java Tokens-Java Statements -Implementing a Java Program -Java Virtual Machine -
Constants -Variables -Data types -Scope of Variables-Symbolic Constants-Type Casting
and type promotions –Operators, Operator Precedence and Associativity -Control
Statements –break -continue-Arrays-Multi dimensional arrays, Wrapper Classes -Simple
examples.
UNIT –II
Classes -Objects -Constructors –methods -this keyword –garbage collection-finalize -
Overloading methods and constructors -Access Control-Static members –nested and inner
classes –command line arguments -variable length arguments.
Inheritance –forms of inheritance –specialization, specification, construction, extension,
limitation, combination, benefits and costs of inheritance. Super uses-final -polymorphism,
method overriding -dynamic method dispatch –abstract classes –exploring string class.
UNIT –III
Packages & Interfaces-Defining and accessing a package –understanding CLASSPATH –
access protection importing packages –Interfaces -Defining and implementing an interface,
Applying interfaces, Variables in interfaces and extended interfaces. Exploring java.lang and
java.util packages.
Exception Handling-Fundamentals, usage of try, catch, multiple catch clauses, throw, throws
and finally. Java Built in Exceptions and creating own exception subclasses.
UNIT –IV
Multithreaded Programming: Java Thread life cycle model –Thread creation -Thread
Exceptions -Thread Priority –Synchronization -Messaging -Runnable Interface -Interthread
Communication -Deadlock -Suspending, Resuming and stopping threads.
I/O Streams:File –Streams –Advantages -The stream classes –Byte streams –Character
streams.
Networks basics: Socket Programming -Proxy Servers -TCP/IP Sockets -Net Address -URL
-Datagram’s
UNIT –V
Applet Programming: How Applets differ from Applications -Applet Life Cycle -Creating an
Applet -Running the Applet-Designing a Webpage -Applet Tag -Adding Applet to HTML file
-More about Applet Tag -Passing parameters to Applets -Aligning the display.
136
Event handling-basics of event handling, Event classes, Event Listeners, delegation event
model, handling mouse and keyboard events, adapter classes, AWT Class hierarchy -AWT
Controls -Layout Managers and Menus, limitations of AWT, Swing, MVC architecture,
components, containers, exploring swing.
TEXTBOOKS
1. The Complete Reference Java J2SE,Herbert Schildt,5th Edition, TMH.
2. Core Java 2 Volume I Fundamentals,Cay S.Horstmann, Gary Cornell, 5thEdn. PHI,2000.
REFERENCES:
1. The Java Programming Language, K. Arnold and J. Gosling, Second Edition,Addison
Wesley, 1996.
2 Java Programming and Objected Oriented Application Development,Richard A. Johnson
INDIA Edition CENGAGE Learning.
3.Object Oriented Programming with Java,R.Buyya, S.T.Selvi, X.Chu,TMH.
4.An Introduction to JavaProgramming, Y.Daniel Liang, Pearson Education.
137
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –I sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
Elective-III
(R11CSE1110) DATA BASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
UNIT-I
Introduction to Databases and Database Management System - Database system
Applications - Advantages of DBMS over File System - Data Models – Instances and
schema - View of Data - Database Languages -DDL-DML - Database Users and
Administrator -Database System Structure.
UNIT-II
Database Design and ER diagrams – Attributes and Entity Sets – Relationships and
Relationship Sets –Constraints - Keys - Design Issues -Entity-Relationship Diagram-Weak
Entity Sets -Extended E-R Features- Database Design with ER model -Database Design
for Banking Enterprise
UNIT –III
Introduction to the Relational Model – Structure of RDBMS - Integrity Constraints over
Relations – Enforcing Integrity Constraints – Querying Relational Data - Relational Algebra
andCalculus.
Introduction to SQL- Data Definition commands, Data Manipulation Commands, Basic
Structure, Set operations Aggregate Operations - Join operations - Sub queries and
correlated queries, SQL functions , views ,Triggers, Embedded SQL.
UNIT –IV
Functional Dependencies– Introduction , Basic Definitions, Trivial and Non trivial
dependencies, closure of a set of dependencies, closure of attributes, irreducible set of
dependencies-Schema Refinement in Database Design-Problems Caused by Redundancy –
Decompositions – Problem Related to Decomposition –- Lossless Join Decomposition –
Dependency Preserving Decomposition -FIRST, SECOND, THIRD Normal Forms –BCNF –
–Multivalued Dependencies –Fourth Normal Form.
UNIT-V
Transaction concept- Transaction state- Implementation of atomicity and Durability-
Concurrent executions –Serializability, Recoverability
Lock Based Protocols, Timestamp Based Protocols, Validation Based Protocols, Multiple
Granularity, Dead Lock Handling –Failure Classification –Storage Structure -Recovery and
Atomicity-Log Based recovery –Recovery with concurrent transactions –Checkpoints .
138
File Organization –Organization of records in file - Data Dictionary Storage –Indexing and
Hashing – Basic Concepts , Ordered Indices,B+Tree Index files, B- tree index files – Static
Hashing –Dynamic Hashing –Comparision of Indexing with Hashing.
TEXTBOOKS.
1. Database System Concepts, Silberschatz, Korth , Fifth Edition, McGraw hill ( 1,2,3 and 5
Units)
2. Introduction to Database Systems, C.J.Date, Pearson Education (4thUnit)
REFERENCES:
1. Fundamentals of Database Systems, Elmasri Navrate Pearson Education
2. Database Management Systems, Raghuramakrishnan, Johannes Gehrke, TATA Mc
Graw Hill(1,2,3 and 5 Units)
3. Data base Systems design, Implementation, and Management, Peter Rob and Carlos
Coronel 7th Edition.
4. Data Base Systems using Oracle : A simplified guide to SQL and PL /SQL, Shah, PHI
139
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –Isem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11EEE1209)POWER SYSTEMSANDSIMULATIONLABORATORY
Any Twelve of the following experiments need to be conducted
1. Differential protection of 1-Φ transformer.
2. IDMT directional and non-directional relays.
3. Static phase sequence detection.
4. Transformer fault analysis, LG,LL,3-Φ faults using PSIM.
5. Group testing of transformer and parallel operation of 3-Φ transformer using PSIM.
6. LG,LL and 3-Φ fault analysis of 3-Φ synchronous machineusing PSCAD or MATLAB .
7. Transient analysis of 3-Φ fault on a 3-Φ synchronous generatorusing PSCAD.
8. Power flow analysis of an IEEE interconnected system using MATLAB .
9. Faultanalysis of an IEEE 9-bus test system usingPOWERWORLD or MIPOWER.
10. Power system transient analysis of opened line, short circuitedline using
PSCAD/MATLAB .
11. ABCD constants and regulation of a 3-Φ transmission line Model using PSCAD.
12. Receiving end power circle diagrams of a 3-Φ transmission line model.
13. Sending end power circle diagrams of a 3-Φ transmission linemodel.
14. Voltage profile improvement using shunt compensation for amodel power system using
POWERWORLD or MIPOWER.
15. Frequency and Power deviation of Two area Load Frequency control
16. Distance protection of transmission lines
17. Testing of CT and PT’s, insulator strings.
18. Fault diagnosis of cables.
19. Finding the sequence impedances of 3-Φ synchronous machine
20. Finding the sequence impedances of 3-Φ Transformer.
140
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11ECE1208) DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING LABORATORY
The following experiments are to be performed using MATLAB
1) Circular Convolution
2) Correlation of signals and sequences
3) Discrete Fourier Transform
4) Power Density Spectrum
5) Filter Design
6) Implementation of Decimation and Interpolation processes, I/D sampling Rate
Converters.
7) To find the Impulse Response/frequency response of given system in Transfer
Function/Difference Equation Form
Getting familiarity with SimuLink:
i. Features of DSP Processor Kit (DSK)
ii. Installation Procedure for DSK
iii. Introduction To Code Composer Studio
iv. Procedure to Work On CCS
The followingExperiments are to be performed using DSP Processor Kit.
1. To Verify Linear Convolution (AsSembly Language program Using 67XX
Instructions).
2. To Verify Circular Convolution.
3. Design FIR (Low Pass/High Pass) using Windowing Technique.
i. Using Rectangular Window
ii. Using Triangular Window
iii. Using Kaiser Window
4. To Design IIR Filter (Low Pass and High pass ).
5. To Find The FFT Of given 1-D Signal And Plot
6. To Compute Power Density Spectrum Of a Sequence
141
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IVYear B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11EEE1125) UTILIZATION OF ELECTRICAL ENERGY
UNIT I
ILLUMINATION ENGINEERING
Nature of light, units, sensitivity of the eye, luminous efficiency, glare. Production of Light;
Incandescent lamps anddischarge lampsLED Lamps-fluorescent lamps-polar curves, effect
of voltage variation on efficiency and life of lamps, Distribution and control of light, lighting
calculations, solid angle, inverse square and cosine laws-calculations, factory lighting, flood
lighting and street lighting-problems.
UNIT II
HEATING AND WELDING
Electrical heating-advantages, methods and applications, resistance oven general
construction, design of heating elements, efficiency calculations. Induction heating: core type
furnaces, core less furnaces and high frequency eddy current heating, dielectric heating:
principle and applications-Problems, arc furnaces: direct arc furnaces, Indirect arc furnaces,
Problems.
Electric welding-types, merits and demerits.
UNIT III
TRACTION
Advantages and disadvantages of electric traction. Mechanics of train movement: simplified
speed time curves, Quadrilateral and Trapezoidal speed time curves. Averageand scheduled
speed, tractive effort, specific energy consumption, factors affecting specific energy
consumption, problems.
UNIT IV
TRACTION MOTORS
DC motors, DC series motor and Induction motor, starting and control of traction motors,
braking of traction motors. Modern 25 KV A.C. single phase traction systems: advantages,
equipment andlayout of 25 KV, single phase A.C. traction.
142
UNIT V
ELECTRIC DRIVES
Individual and collective drives- electrical braking, plugging, rheostatic and regenerative
braking load equalization,use of fly wheel criteria for selection of motors for variousindustrial
drives. Characteristics and speed control of various DC and AC motors, Electric Drive
Applications to lifts and cranes, problems.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Utilisation of Electric Energy –by E. Openshaw Taylor, Orient Longman.
2. Art & Science of Utilization of electrical Energy –by Partab, Dhanpat Rai & Sons.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Utilization of Electrical Power including Electric drives and Electric traction – by
N.V.Suryanarayana, New Age International (P) Limited, Publishers, 1996.
2. Generation, Distribution and Utilization of electrical Energy –by C.L. Wadhwa, New
Age International (P) Limited, Publishers, 1997.
3. Utilization of ElectricalPower by J.B.Gupta, Kataria publishers.
143
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
Elective –IV
(R11EEE1126) ADVANCED CONTROL SYSTEMS
Objective :
This subject deals with state space, describing function, phase plane and stability analysis
including controllabilityand observability. It also deals with modern control and optimal control
systems.
UNIT –I
STATE SPACE ANALYSIS
State Space Representation, Solution of State Equation, State Transition Matrix, Canonical
Forms –ControllableCanonical Form, Observable Canonical Form, Jordan Canonical Form.
Tests for controllaboratoryility and observability for continuous time systems –Time varying
case, minimum energy control, time invariant case, Principle of Duality, Controllability and
observability form Jordan canonical form and other canonicalforms.
UNIT –II
DESCRIBING FUNCTION ANALYSIS
Introduction to nonlinear systems, Types of nonlinearities, describing functions, describing
function analysis of nonlinear control systems.
UNIT-III
PHASE-PLANE and STABILITY ANALYSIS
Introduction to phase-plane analysis, Method of Isoclines for Constructing Trajectories,
singular points, phase-plane analysis of nonlinear control systems.
Stability in the sense of Lyapunov., Lyapunov’s stability and Lypanov’s instability theorems.
Direct method of Lypanovfor the Linear and Nonlinear continuous time autonomous systems.
UNIT –IV
MODAL CONTROL
Effect of state feedback on controllability and observability, Design of State Feedback Control
through Pole placement. Full order observer and reduced order observer.
144
UNIT-V
CALCULUS OF VARIATIONS and OPTIMAL CONTROL
Minimization of functionals of single function, Constrained minimization. Minimum principle.
Control variable inequality constraints. Control and state variable inequality constraints. Euler
Lagrangine Equation.
Formulation of optimal control problem. Minimum time, Minimum energy, minimum fuel
problems. State regulator problem. Output regulator problem. Tracking problem, Continuous-
Time Linear Regulators
TEXT BOOKS
1.Modern Control System Theory –byM. Gopal, New AgeInternational Publishers, 2nd
edition, 1996.
REFERENCES
1.Modern Control Engineering –by K.Ogata, Prentice Hall of India,3rdedition, 1998
2.Control Systems Engineering by I.J. Nagarath and M.Gopal,NewAge International (P) Ltd.
3.Digital Control and State Variable Methods –by M. Gopal, Tata Mc Graw-Hill Companies.
4. Systems and Control by Stainslaw H. Zak , Oxford Press, 2003.
145
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
Elective-IV
(R11EEE1133) ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING MATERIALS
UNIT-I
Classification of Electrical Engineering Materials and Conducting Materials
Classification of materials into conducting, semi conducting and insulating materials through a
brief reference to their atomic structures and energy bands
Conducting Materials
Introduction, Resistance and factors affecting it such as alloying and temperature etc,
Superconductor, Classification of conducting material as low resistivity and high resistivity
materials, Low resistance materials
Copper: Its general properties as conductor, resistivity, temperature coefficient, density,
mechanical properties of hard-drawn and annealed copper, corrosion, contact resistance.
Application in the field of electrical engineering.
Aluminum: General properties as conductor, resistivity, temperature coefficient, density,
mechanical properties of hard and annealed aluminum, solderability, contact resistance.
Applications in the field of electrical engineering.
Steel: General properties as conductor, resistivity, corrosion, temperature coefficient, density,
mechanical properties, solderability, Applications in the field of electrical engineering.
Introduction to handle conductors and its applications
Low resistivity copper alloys: Brass, Bronze (cadmium and Beryllium), their practical
applications with reasons for the same 2.5 Applications of special metals e.g. Silver, Gold,
Platinum etc.
High resistivity materials and their applications e.g., manganin, constantin, Nichrome,
mercury, platinum, carbon and tungsten, Superconductors and their applications
UNIT-II
Semi-conducting Materials and Advances
Introduction, Semi-conductors and their properties, Different semi-conducting materials
(silicon and germanium) used in manufacture of various semiconductor devices (i.e p-type
and n-type semiconductors), Materials used for electronic components like resistors,
capacitors, diodes, transistors and inductors etc., Advanced Semiconductor materials
UNIT-III
Insulating materials-General Properties & Applications:
General Properties
Electrical Properties: Volume resistivity, surface resistance, dielectric loss, dielectric
strength (breakdown voltage) dielectric constant
146
Physical Properties:Hygroscopicity, tensile and compressive strength, abrasive resistance,
brittleness
Thermal Properties: Heat resistance, classification according to permissible temperature
rise. Effect of overloading on the life of an electrical appliance, increase in rating with the use
of insulating materials having higher thermal stability, Thermal conductivity, Electro-thermal
breakdown in solid dielectrics
Chemical Properties:Solubility, chemical resistance, weather ability
Mechanicalproperties:mechanical structure, tensile structure
Applications
Plastics, Definition and classification
Thermosetting materials: Phenol-formaldehyde resins (i.e. Bakelite) amino resins (urea
formaldehyde and Malamine-formaldehyde), epoxy resins – their important properties and
applications
Thermo-plastic materials: Polyvinyl chloride (PVC), polyethelene, silicons, their important
properties and applications
Natural insulating materials, properties and their applications:
Mica and Mica products, Asbestos and asbestos products, Ceramic materials (porcelain and
steatite),
Glass and glass products, Cotton, Silk, Jute, Paper (dry and impregnated), Rubber, Bitumen,
Mineral and insulating oil for transformers switchgear capacitors, high voltage insulated
cables, insulating varnishes for coatingand impregnation, Enamels for winding wires, Glass
fiber sleeves, Gaseous materials; Air, Hydrogen, Nitrogen, SF6 and their properties and
applications
UNIT-IV
Magnetic Materials:
Introduction - ferromagnetic materials, permeability, B-H curve, magnetic saturation, and
hysteresis loop (including) coercive force and residual magnetism, concept of eddy current
and hysteresis loss, curie temperature, magnetostriction effect.
Soft Magnetic Materials:
Alloyed steels with silicon, high silicon, alloy steel fortransformers, low silicon alloy steel for
electric rotating machines, Cold rolled grain oriented steels for transformer, Non-oriented
steels for rotating machine, Nickel-iron alloys, Soft Ferrites, Hard magnetic materials
Tungsten steel, chrome steel, hard ferrites and cobalt steel, their applications
UNIT-V
Special Materials:
Thermocouple,bimetals, lead soldering and fuse material, their applications
Introduction of various engineering materials necessary for fabrication of electrical
machinessuch as motors, generators, transformers etc.
Materials and the future (Reference from India 2020 by Dr.A P J Abdul Kalam)
147
Text Books:
1. Electrical and Electronic Engineering Materials by SK Bhattacharya, Khanna
Publishers.
2. Electrical Engineering Materials by PL Kapoor, Khanna Publishers, New Delhi
Reference Books:
1. Electronic Components and Materials by Grover and Jamwal, Dhanpat Rai and
Co.,
2. Electrical Engineering Materials by Sahdev, Unique International Publications
3. Electronic Components and Materials by SM Dhir, Tata Mc Graw Hill, New Delhi
4. Electronic Engineering Materials by ML Gupta, Dhanpat Rai & Sons, New Delhi
5. India 2020, A vision for the New Millennium by Dr.A P J Abdul Kalam with
Y.S.Rajan
6. Electrical & Electronics Engineering Materials BR Sharma and Others, Satya
Parkashan.
148
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
Elective-IV
(R11EEE1127)EHV AC TRANSMISSION
UNIT –1
Line and ground reactive parameters:
Necessity of EHV AC transmission –advantages and problems–power handling capacity and
line losses- mechanical considerations – resistance of conductors – properties of bundled
conductors –bundle spacing and bundle radius-Examples. Line inductance and capacitances
–sequence inductances and capacitances –modes of propagation –ground return –Design
of grounding grids-Examples
UNIT –II
Voltage gradients of conductors Electro static field:
Electrostatics –field of sphere gap –field of line changes and properties –charge –potential
relations for multi-conductors – surface voltage gradient on conductors – distribution of
voltage gradient on sub-conductors of bundle – Examples. Electrostatic field: calculation of
electrostatic field of EHV/AC lines – effect on humans, animals and plants – electrostatic
induction in unenergised circuit of double-circuit line – electromagnetic interference-
Examples.
UNIT –III
Corona effects:
Power loss and audible noise (AN) – corona loss formulae – charge voltage diagram –
generation, characteristics -limits and measurements of AN –relation between 1-phase and
3-phase AN levels – Examples. Radio interference (RI) - corona pulses generation,
properties, limits – frequency spectrum – modes of propagation – excitation function –
measurement of RI, RIV and excitation functions –Insulation coordination-Examples.
UNIT-IV
Travelling wave theory
Lightning Phenomena-Travelling wave expression and solution-source of excitation-terminal
conditions- open circuited and short-circuited end- reflection and refraction coefficients-
149
Lumped parameters of distributed lines-generalized constants-No load voltage conditions and
charging current.
UNIT –V
Voltage control
Power circle diagram and its use –voltage control using synchronous condensers –cascade
connection of shunt and series compensation – sub synchronous resonance in series
capacitor –compensated lines –static VAR compensating system.
Text Books:
1. Rokesh Das Begamudra, “Extra High Voltage AC Transmission Engineering, Third
Edition”. New Age International (P) Ltd: 2006.
2. M.S Naidu, “High Volage Engineering, 2 Edition” Tata MG Hill.
Reference Books:
1. High Voltage Engineering Fundamentals, Second Edition E. Kuffel, J.Kufel, W.S.Zeengl.
2. High Voltage Engineering and Testing Author: HM Ryan, Institute of engineering and
technology.
150
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
Elective-IV
(R11EEE1128) RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES
UNIT-I
SOLAR ENERGY
Photo voltaic power generation, spectral distribution of energy in solar radiation, solar cell
configurations, voltage developed by solar cell, photo current and load current, practical solar
cell performance, commercial photo voltaic systems, test specifications for pv systems,
applications of super conducting materials in electrical equipment systems.
UNIT-II
MAGNETOHYDRODYNAMIC (MHD) GENERATION
Principles of MHD power generation, ideal MHD generator performance, practical MHD
generator, MHD technology.
UNIT-III
WIND ENERGY
Wind Energy conversion: Power from wind, properties of air and wind, types of wind Turbines,
operating characteristics. Tides and tidal power stations, Modes of operation , tidal project
examples, turbines and generators for Tidal power generation. Wave energy conversion:
properties of waves and Power content, vertex motion of Waves, device applications. Types
of Ocean thermal energy conversion systems Application of OTEC systems Examples, micro
hydel developments.
UNIT-IV
NON-CONVENTIONAL ENERGY
Miscellaneous energy conversion systems: coal gasification and liquefaction, biomass
conversion, geothermal energy, thermo electric energy conversion, fuel cells and batteries,
principles of EMF generation, description of fuel cells, description of batteries, battery
application for large powers.
UNIT-V
CO-GENERATION AND ENERGY STORGE
Co-generation and energy storage, combined cycle co-generation, energy storage. Global
energy position and environmental effects: energy units, global energy position.
Environmental effects of energy conversion systems, pollution from coal and preventive
measures steam stations and pollution, pollution free energy systems.
151
TEXT BOOK
1. “Energy conversion systems” by Rakosh das Begamudre, New age international
publishers, New Delhi -2000.
REFERNCE BOOK
1.“Renewble Energy Resources’’ by John Twidell and Tony Weir,2ndedition,Fspon & co.
152
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
Elective-V
(R11EEE1129) MODERN POWER ELECTRONICS
UNIT-I
High-Power Semiconductor Devices:
Introduction, High-Power Switching Devices, Diodes, Silicon-Controlled Rectifier (SCR), Gate
Turn-Off (GTO) Thyristor, Gate-Commutated Thyristor (GCT), Insulated Gate Bipolar
Transistor (IGBT), Other Switching Devices, Operation of Series-Connected Devices, Main
Causes of Voltage Unbalance ,Voltage Equalization for GCTs, Voltage Equalization for IGBTs
UNIT-II
Two-Level Voltage Source Inverter:
Introduction, Sinusoidal PWM , Modulation Scheme ,Harmonic Content, Overmodulation,Third
Harmonic Injection PWM, Space Vector Modulation , Switching States , Space Vectors, Dwell
Time Calculation, Modulation Index , Switching Sequence, Spectrum Analysis, Even-Order
Harmonic Elimination, Discontinuous Space Vector Modulation.
UNIT-III
Cascaded H-Bridge Multilevel Inverters:
Introduction, H-Bridge Inverter, Bipolar Pulse-Width Modulation, Unipolar Pulse-Width
Modulation, Multilevel Inverter Topologies, CHB Inverter with Equal dc Voltage, H-Bridges
with Unequal dc Voltages, Carrier Based PWM Schemes, Phase-Shifted Multicarrier
Modulation, Level-Shifted Multicarrier Modulation, Comparison Between Phase- and Level-
Shifted,PWM Schemes , Staircase Modulation.
UNIT-IV
Diode-Clamped Multilevel Inverters:
Introduction, Three-Level Inverter , Converter Configuration, Switching State ,Commutation,
Space Vector Modulation, Stationary Space Vectors , Dwell Time Calculation, Relationship
Between V_ref Location and Dwell Times, Switching Sequence Design, Inverter Output
Waveforms and Harmonic Content , Even-Order Harmonic Elimination, Neutral-Point Voltage
Control, Causes of Neutral-Point Voltage Deviation
153
UNIT-V
DC-DC Switch-mode converters and Switching DC power supplies:
Introduction, control of dc-dc converter, Buck converter, boost converter, buck-boost
converter, cuk dc-dc converter, full-bridge dc-dc converter, dc-dc converter comparison.
Linear power supplies, overview of switching power supplies, dc-dc converters with electrical
isolation, control of switch mode dc power supplies, power supply protection, and electrical
isolation in the feedback loop, designing to meet the power supply specifications.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Power electronics circuits, Devices and applications–M.H. Rashid PHI –I edition –1995.
2. “Power Electronics converters, Applications and Design” Ned Mohan, Tore M. Undeland
rd
and William P. Robbins, A John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Publication 3 Edition.
REFERENCES
1. “High-Power Converters And Ac Drives” Bin Wu, A John Wiley & Sons, Inc.,
154
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
ELECTIVE-V
(R11EEE1130) FLEXIBLE A.C. TRANSMISSION SYSTEMS
Unit I
FACTS concepts: Transmission interconnections power flow in an AC system, loading
capability limits, Dynamic stability considerations, importance of controllable parameters basic
types of FACTS controllers, benefits from FACTS controllers.
Unit II
Voltage source converters: Single phase three phase full wave bridge converters
transformer connections for 12 pulse 24 and 48 pulse operation.
Three level voltage source converter, pulse width modulation converter, basic concept of
current source Converters, and comparisonof current source converters with voltage source
converters.
Unit III
Static shunt compensation: Objectives of shunt compensation, midpointvoltage regulation,
voltage instability prevention, improvement of transient stability, Power oscillation damping,
Methods of controllable var generation, variable impedance type static var generators,
switching converter type var generators, hybrid var generators.
Unit IV
SVC and STATCOM: The regulation and slope transfer function and dynamic performance,
transient stability enhancement and power oscillation damping operating point control and
summary of compensator control.
Unit V
Static series compensators: concept of series capacitive compensation, improvement of
transient stability, power oscillation damping Functional requirements. GTO thyristor
controlled series capacitor(GSC), thyristor switched series capacitor(TSSC), and thyristor
controlled series capacitor(TCSC) control schemes for GSC TSSC and TCSC.
Text Book
1. “Understanding FACTS Devices” N.G. Hingorani and L.Guygi. IEEE Press Publications
2000.
155
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
Elective-V
(R11EIE1124)PROGRAMMABLE LOGIC CONTROLLERS
UNIT-I
PLC Basics: PLC system, I/O modules and interfacing, CPU processor, programming
Equipment, programming formats, construction of PLC ladder diagrams, Devices connected
to I/O modules.
PLC Programming: Input instructions, outputs, operational procedures, programming
examples using contacts and coils. Drill press operation.
UNIT-II
Digital logic gates, programming in the Boolean algebra system, conversion examples
Ladder Diagrams for process control: Ladder diagrams andsequence listings, ladder diagram
construction and flowchart for spray process system.
UNIT-III
PLC Registers: Characteristics of Registers, module addressing, holding registers, Input
Registers, Output Registers.PLC Functions: Timer functions and Industrial applications,
counters, counter function industrial applications, Arithmetic functions, Number comparison
functions, number conversion functions
UNIT-IV
Data Handling functions: SKIP, Master control Relay, Jump, Move, FIFO, FAL, ONS, CLR
and Sweep functions and their applications.Bit Pattern and changing a bit shift register,
sequence functions and applications, controlling of two-axis andthree axis Robots with PLC,
Matrix functions.
UNIT-V
Analog PLC operation: Analog modulesandsystems, Analog signal processing, Multi bit Data
Processing, Analog output Application Examples, PID principles, position indicator with PID
control, PID Modules, PID tuning, PID functions.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Programmable Logic Controllers-Principles and Applications by John W. Webb and
Ronald A. Reiss, Fifth Edition, PHI.
2. Programmable Logic Controllers-Programming Method and Applications –JR.Hackworth
andF.D Hackworth Jr. –Pearson, 2004.
156
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering andTechnology
IV Year B.Tech EEE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
Elective-V
(R11ECE1132) EMBEDDED SYSTEMS
UNIT I
Embedded Computing : Introduction, Complex Systems and Microprocessor, The
Embedded System. Design Process, Formalisms for System Design, Design Examples
The 8051 Architecture : Introduction, 8051 Micro controller Hardware, Input/Output Ports
and Circuits, External Memory, Counter and Timers, Serial data Input/Output, Interrupts.
UNIT II
Basic Assembly Language Programming Concepts : The Assembly Language
Programming Process,Programming Tools and Techniques, Programming the 8051. Data
Transfer and Logical Instructions.
Arithmetic Operations, Decimal Arithmetic. Jump and Call Instructions, Further Details on
Interrupts.
UNIT III
Applications : Interfacing with Keyboards, Displays, D/A and A/D Conversions, Multiple
Interrupts, Serial Data Communication.
Introduction to Real –Time Operating Systems : Tasks and Task States, Tasks and Data,
Semaphores, and Shared Data; Message Queues, Mailboxes and Pipes, Timer Functions,
Events, Memory Management, Interrupt Routines in an RTOS Environnent. (Chapter 6 and 7
from Text Book 3, Simon)
UNIT IV
Basic Design Using a Real-Time Operating System : Principles, Semaphores and Queues,
Hard Real-Time Scheduling Considerations, Saving Memory and Power, An example RTOS
like uC-OS (Open Source); Embedded Software Development Tools: Host and Target
machines, Linker/Locators for Embedded Software, Getting Embedded Software into the
Target System; Debugging Techniques: Testing on Host Machine, Using LABORATORY
Tools, An Example System.
157
UNIT V
Introduction to advanced architectures: ARM and SHARC, Processor and memory
organization and Instruction level parallelism; Networked embedded systems: Bus protocols,
I2C bus and CAN bus; Internet-Enabled Systems, Design Example-Elevator Controller.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Computers and Components, Wayne Wolf, Elseveir.
2. The 8051 Microcontroller,Kenneth J.Ayala,Thomson, Third Edition.
REFERENCES
1. Embedding system building blocks, Labrosse, via CMP publishers.
2. Embedded Systems, Raj Kamal, TMH.
3. Micro Controllers, Ajay V Deshmukhi, TMH.
4. Embedded System Design, Frank Vahid, Tony Givargis, John Wiley.
5. Microcontrollers, Raj kamal, Pearson Education.
6. An Embedded Software Primer, David E. Simon, Pearson Education.
158
