SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/r11/R11ME.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

Institute Vision
To be a world class university providing value based education, conducting
interdisciplinary research in cutting edge technologies leading to sustainable
socio economic development of the nation.
Institute Mission
 To produce technically competent and socially responsible engineers,
managers and entrepreneurs, who will be future ready.
 To involve students and faculty in innovative research projects linked with
industry, academic and research institutions in India and abroad.
 To use modern pedagogy for improving the teaching learning process
1
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE
AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
Mechanical Engineering
B.TECH. FOUR YEAR DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2011-2012)
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
(AFFILIATED TO JNTUH)
An Autonomous Institute under JNTUH
Bachupally, Nizampet (S.O),
Hyderabad – 500090
Andhra Pradesh, India
2
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute under JNTUH
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS 2011 FOR B.TECH. DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for Students admitted from the academic year 2011-2012)
1. Courses of study
The following courses of study are offered at present for specialization for the B. Tech.
Course:
Branch Code Branch
01 Civil Engineering.
02 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
03 Mechanical Engineering
04 Electronics and Communication Engineering
05 Computer Science and Engineering.
10 Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
12 Information Technology
24 Automobile Engineering
1.1 Eligibility Criteria for Admission
The eligibility criteria for admission into engineering programmes shall be as
mentioned below:
The candidate shall be an Indian National.
The candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st December
of the academic year for which the admissions are being conducted.
The Candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or
equivalent as on the date of admission.
3
Seats in each programme in the Institution are classified into Category A and
Category B as per the G.Os.
1.1.1 Category – A Seats
These seats will be filled through counseling as per the rank at the Common
Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by the State Government and State
Government GOs as per other admission criteria laid down in the G.Os.
1.1.2 Category - B Seats
These seats will be filled by the institute as per the G.Os Issued by State
Government from time to time.
1.1.3 Category: Lateral Entry
The candidate shall be admitted into the Third Semester, based on the rank
secured by the candidate at Engineering Common Entrance Test (ECET(FDH))
by the Convener, ECET.
2. Distribution and Weightage of Marks
i. The performance of a student in each Semester shall be evaluated subject –wise
with a maximum of 100 marks for theory and 75 marks for practical subjects.
In addition, an Industry oriented mini-project, Seminar, Comprehensive viva-voce,
and Project Work shall be evaluated for 50, 50, 50 and 200 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects the distribution shall be 30 marks for Internal Evaluation
and 70 marks for the End-Examination.
For theory subjects, Two mid examinations will be conducted in each Semester
as per the academic calendar. Each mid examination is evaluated for 25 marks.
First mid examination should be conducted for 1 – 2 ½ Units of syllabus and the
second mid examination shall be conducted for 2 ½ - 5 Units of syllabus. The mid
descriptive type exam paper consists of Section-A and Section-B.
Section-A [compulsory] consists of 5 short answer questions and each carries
one mark.
Section-B consists of 5 questions out of which 4 are to be answered and each
question carries 5 marks. The time duration of each mid examination is 90
minutes.
Two assignments are to be given to students covering the syllabus of first Mid
and second Mid examinations and are evaluated for 5 marks each. .
4
The first assignment shall be submitted before first mid examinations and
second Assignment should be submitted before second mid examination.
At the end of the Semester Internal Marks Maximum 30 for the respective
subjects are allotted as follows:
(a) 25 marks for the better of the two mid term examinations
(b) 5 marks is the average of the two assignment marks
iii. For practical subjects there shall be a continuous evaluation during the Semester
for 25 internal marks and 50 marks for end examination. Out of the 25 marks
for internal, day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be evaluated for 10
marks, and 10 marks for internal examination (two internal practical examinations
will be conducted and the better of the two examinations will be taken into
account) and 5 marks for laboratory record.
NOTE: A student who is absent for any assignment/Mid-term examination for any
reason what so ever shall be deemed to have secured ‘zero’ marks in the
test/examination and no makeup test/examination shall be conducted.
iv For the subjects having design and / or drawing, (such as Engineering Graphics,
Engineering Drawing, Machine Drawing, Production Drawing Practice, and
Estimation etc., the distribution shall be 30 marks for internal evaluation (15
marks for day-to-day work and 15 marks for internal tests (the better of the
two examinations will be taken into account) and 70 marks for end
examination. There shall be two internal tests in a Semester.
iv. There shall be an industry-oriented mini-Project, in collaboration with an
industry of their specialization, to be taken up during the vacation after III year II
Semester examination. The mini project shall be evaluated during the IV year
I Semester. The industry oriented mini project shall be submitted in report form
and should be presented before a committee, which shall be evaluated for 50
marks. The committee consists of Head of the Department, the supervisor of mini
project and a senior faculty member of the department. There shall be no
internal assessment for industry oriented mini project.
vi. There shall be a Seminar presentation in IV year II Semester. For the Seminar,
the student shall collect the information on a specialized topic other than the
project topic and prepare a technical report, showing his understanding of the
topic, and submit to the department, which shall be evaluated by a Departmental
committee consisting of the Head of the department, Seminar supervisor and a
5
senior faculty member. The Seminar report shall be evaluated for 50 marks.
There shall be no external examination for Seminar.
vii. There shall be a Comprehensive Viva-Voce in IV year II Semester. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce will be conducted by a Committee consisting of the
Head of the Department and three Senior Faculty members of the Department.
The Comprehensive Viva-Voce is aimed to assess the student’s understanding in
various subjects studied during the B.Tech. course of study. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce is evaluated for 50 marks by the Committee. There
will be no internal assessment for the Comprehensive viva-voce.
viii. The Project work shall be started by the student in the beginning of the IV year I
Semester. Out of a total of 200 marks for the project work, 60 marks shall be for
Internal Evaluation and 140 marks for the Semester end Examination. The
Semester end Examination (viva-voce) shall be conducted by a committee
comprising of an external examiner, Head of the Department and the project
supervisor. The evaluation of project work shall be conducted at the end of the
IV year II Semester. The Internal Evaluation shall be on the basis of three
Seminars conducted during the IV year II Semester for 30 marks by the
committee consisting of Head of the Department, project supervisor and
senior faculty member of the Department and for 30 marks by the
supervisor of the project.
3. Semester end Examination
(a) Theory Courses
Each course is evaluated for 70 marks. Examination is of 3 hours duration.
Question paper contains two sections [Section-A and Section-B]
Section-A: Carries 30 marks [Five questions of one mark each, five questions of
two marks each and another five questions of three marks each] which is
compulsory.
Section-B: carries 40 marks consisting of six essay type questions out of which
four questions are to be answered, each carrying 10 marks.
Drawing related subjects, question paper contains 8 questions (atleast one
question from each unit), out of which the candidate has to answer any 5
questions, each carrying 14 marks.
(b) Practical Courses
Each lab course is evaluated for 50 marks. The examination shall be conducted
by the laboratory teacher and another senior teacher concerned with the subject
6
of the same/other department/Industry. The external examiner may be
appointed by the Chief Superintendent in consultation with HOD as and when
required.
(c ) Supplementary Examinations
Supplementary examinations will be conducted along with regular Semester end
examinations. (During even Semester regular examinations, supplementary
examinations of odd Semester and during odd Semester regular examinations,
supplementary examinations of even Semester will be conducted).
4. Attendance Requirements
i. A student shall be eligible to appear for the Semester end examinations if he acquires
a minimum of 75% of attendance in aggregate of all the subjects for Semester /
year.
ii. Condonation of shortage of attendance in aggregate up to 10% (65% and above
and below 75%) in a Semester may be granted by Institute Academic Committee.
iii. A student will not be permitted to write the end examination and not promoted to the
next Semester unless he satisfies the attendance requirement of the present
Semester, as applicable. He may seek re-admission for that Semester when offered
next.
iv. Shortage of Attendance below 65% in aggregate shall in NO case be condoned.
v. Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned in any Semester are not
eligible to take their end examination of that Semester.
vi. A stipulated fee shall be payable towards condonation of shortage of attendance.
5. Minimum Academic Requirements
The following academic requirements have to be satisfied in addition to the
attendance requirements mentioned in item No.4.
i. A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic requirements
and earned the credits allotted to each theory or practical design or drawing subject
or project, if he secures not less than 35% (25 out of 70 marks) of marks in the
end examination and a minimum of 40% of marks in the sum total of the
internal evaluation and end examination taken together.
ii. A student shall be promoted from II to III year only if he fulfils the academic
requirement of 37 credits from Two regular and one supplementary
7
examinations of I year I Semester and One Regular and One Supplementary
exam of I year II Semester, and one regular examination of II year I Semester
irrespective of whether the candidate takes the examination or not.
iii. A student shall be promoted from III year to IV year only if he fulfils the academic
requirements of total 62 credits from the following examinations, whether the
candidate takes the examinations or not.
 Three regular and Two supplementary examinations of I B Tech I Semester.
 Two regular and two Supplementary examinations for I B Tech II Semester
 Two regular and one supplementary examinations up to the end of II year I
Semester.
 One regular and one supplementary examinations of II year II Semester.
 One regular examination of III year I Semester.
iv. A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 200
credits and earn the 200 credits. Marks obtained in all 200 credits shall be
considered for the calculation of percentage of marks.
v. Students who fail to earn 200 credits as indicated in the course structure within
eight academic years from the year of their admission shall forfeit their seat in
B.Tech. course and their admission shall get stands cancelled.
6. Course pattern
i. The entire course of study is of four academic years. All the I, II, III and IV years
are of Semester pattern .
ii. A student eligible to appear for the end examination in a subject, but absent or
has failed in the end examination may reappear for that subject at the
supplementary examination whenever conducted.
iii. When a student is detained due to shortage of attendance in any Semester, he
may be re-admitted into that Semester when it is offered next, with the academic
regulations of the batch into which he gets readmitted.
iv. When a student is detained due to lack of credits in any year, he may be eligible
to be promoted or for promotion into the next year after fulfillment of the academic
requirements, with the academic regulations of the batch into which he gets
admitted
7. Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
A student will be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. Degree if he/she
fulfils the following academic regulations:
8
I. Pursued a course of study for not less than four academic years and not more
than eight academic years.
ii. Registered for 200 credits and secured 200 credits.
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award of the
degree within eight academic years from the year of their admission, shall forfeit their
seat in B.Tech. Course.
Iii After a student has satisfied the requirements prescribed for the completion of
the program and is eligible for the award of B. Tech. Degree he shall be placed in
one of the following four classes:
Class Awarded % of marks to be secured
First Class with Distinction 70% and above
First Class Below 70% but not less than 60%
From the aggregate
Second Class Below 60% but not less than 50% marks secured for
the 200 Credits.
Pass Class Below 50% but not less than 40%
Fail Below 40%
(The marks in internal evaluation and end examination shall be shown separately in the
marks memorandum).
8. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to College, or if any case of indiscipline is
pending against him, the result of the candidate may be withheld and he will not
be allowed to go into the next higher Semester. The award or issue of the
Degree may also be withheld in such cases.
9. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or
any other academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and
when they become eligible. They have to take up Equivalent subjects, as
substitute subject in place of repetition of subjects as decided by the Institute
Academic Committee.
9
10. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each Semester shall be 90 clear instruction
days.
11. There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission process.
12. The decision of the Institute Academic Committee will be final in respect of
equivalent subjects for those students who are transferred from other
colleges. The procedure for permitting students to transfer from other
colleges will be decided by the principal / Institute Academic Committee
keeping the Government Rules concerned in view.
13. General
i. Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include “she”, “her”,
“hers”.
ii. The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
iii. In the case of any doubt or ambiguity in the interpretation of the above rules, the
decision of the Principal is final.
iv. In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arises in the above rules and
regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
v. The College may change or amend any or all of the academic regulations or syllabi
at any time and the changes or amendments made shall be applicable to all the
students concerned with effect from the dates notified by the College.
14. Academic Regulations for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2012-2013)
(i) A student shall register for all 150 credits and earn all the 150 credits. Marks
obtained in all 150 credits shall be considered for the calculation of the class.
(ii) A student who fails to earn 150 credits as indicated in the course structure
within six academic years from the year of their admission shall forfeit their
seat in B.Tech. programme and their admission stands cancelled.
(iii) The same attendance regulations are adopted as that of B.Tech. Four year
degree course.
(iv) A student shall be promoted from third year to fourth year only on fulfilling
the academic requirements of securing 37 credits from the following
examinations.
a. Two regular and one supplementary examination of II year I Semester
b. One regular and one supplementary examination of II year II Semester
10
c. One regular examination of III year I Semester.
Irrespective of whether the candidate appears the Semester-End examination or not as
per the normal course of study and in case of getting detained for want of credits the
student may make up the credits through supplementary exams of the above exams
before the date of commencement of class work for IV year I Semester.
(v) Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
After a student has satisfied the requirements prescribed for the completion of the
program and is eligible for the award of B. Tech. Degree he shall be placed in one
of the following four classes:
Class Awarded % of marks to be secured
First Class with Distinction 70% and above
First Class Below 70% but not less than 60%
From the aggregate
Second Class Below 60% but not less than 50% marks secured for
the 150 Credits.
Pass Class Below 50% but not less than 40%
(i.e., II year to IV
Fail Below 40% year)
(The marks in internal evaluation and end examination shall be shown separately in the
marks memorandum)
All other regulations as applicable to B.Tech. four year degree course will hold good for
B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme).
11
Vision
To develop into a Centre of Excellence in Education and Research in the field
of Mechanical Engineering, consistent with the contemporary and future needs
of the country
Mis sion
 To impart high quality education by using modern pedagogical tools
so as to make the students technically competent in their chosen fields
and socially responsible
 To inculcate quality research by developing linkages with Industry and
R & D organizations in India & abroad
12
B.TECH. (MECHANICAL ENGINEERING):
Degree: B.Tech. Specialization: Mechanical Engineering
Duration: 4 Years Details: 8 semesters
Mode of Full-time Year of starting: 1995
study:
Intake: 120 Regulations: R11
 Overview of the programme:
Mechanical engineering is a broad and diverse discipline that derives its breadth from
the need to design, analyze and manufacture everything from small to large
components, assemblies., and systems either stationary or in motion. The four year
programme is designed to prepare graduates with creative thinking that allows them
to design a product, use the analytical tools to achieve the design goals, ability to
overcome constraints, work in a team to find solutions with social relevance. The
programme has been running for the last 16 years and is regularly updated in line
with the subject developments and changing industrial practices. Mechanical
engineers learn about materials, solid and fluid mechanics, thermodynamics, heat
transfer, control, instrumentation, design, and manufacturing processes, etc., to
understand mechanical systems. Specialized mechanical engineering subjects
include unconventional machining processes, composite materials, MEMS,
nanotechnology, tribology, vibrations etc.
13
B.TECH. (MECHANICAL ENGINEERING)
 PROGRAMME EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES:
I. To prepare students for successful careers as mechanical engineers in
organizations that meet the needs of Indian and global/multinational
industrial/research establishments.
II. To provide a strong foundation in mathematical, scientific and engineering
fundamentals in both domain and cross domain spheres, that enables students
to visualize, analyze and solve mechanical engineering problems and be
innovative and research oriented.
III. To train students with a wide spectrum of scientific and engineering courses so
that students could comprehend, analyze, design and create products and
services that address real life problems, which are efficient and cost effective.
IV. To inculcate in students a professional and ethical attitude, impart effective
communication skills and ability to work in teams with multidisciplinary approach,
be part of and interact with professional bodies so as to resolve engineering
issues of social relevance.
V. To provide students with an academic environment that fosters excellence,
leadership, yearning to pursue higher studies and passion for lifelong learning
so as to have a successful professional career.
14
 PROGRAMME OUTCOMES:
a. Demonstrate basic knowledge of mathematics, sciences and mechanical
engineering and essential computational techniques/procedures that aid in
problem solving and be in a position to face competitive examinations.
b. Identify, critically analyze, formulate and solve mechanical engineering problems.
c. Design a system, a component or a process in the domain of mechanical
engineering, prepare a model, conduct experiments, analyze and interpret data.
d. Visualize and work in engineering and science laboratories on multidisciplinary
tasks as teams, conduct investigations and solve complex problems.
e. Use modern engineering tools, equipment, processes and state-of-the- art
software packages on modeling and analysis for solving problems.
f. Demonstrate an understanding of the impact of engineering solutions on society
to ensure that no ill effects befall; and also be aware of contemporary issues.
g. Understand the impact of engineering solutions on the environment to mitigate
any ill effects and ensure sustainability of solutions arrived at.
h. Possess knowledge, understanding and application of professional and ethical
responsibilities and human values in all professional transactions.
i. Utilize ability to work as individuals as well as team members on engineering
problems and be able to understand group dynamics and play their role
appropriately in the group and develop entrepreneurial skills.
j. Communicate effectively in both verbal and written form.
k. Administer and execute projects with emphases on time management, financial
management and personnel management.
l. Develop a penchant for self-education, inclination for updating with
developments, participate in professional societies, interact with stalwarts in the
field and continue life-long learning.
15
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
B. Tech. MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11MTH1101 Mathematics I 3 1 3
R11PHY1101 Engineering Physics I 3 0 3
Chemistry of Engineering
R11CHE1102 3 0 3
Materials
R11CSE1101 Computer Programming 3 0 3
R11MED1101 Engineering Mechanics I 4 1 4
R11EEE1130 Elements of Engineering 3 0 3
R11MED1102 Engineering Graphics I 2 3 2
Engg. Physics and
R11EPC1201 0 3 2
Chemistry Lab
R11CSE1201 Computer Programming Lab 0 3 2
Total 21 11 25
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11MTH1102 Mathematics II 3 1 3
R11PHY1102 Engineering Physics II 3 0 3
R11CHE1101 Engineering Chemistry 3 0 3
R11HAS1101 English 3 0 3
R11CSE1102 Data Structures 3 0 3
R11MED1103 Engineering Mechanics II 4 1 4
R11MED1104 Engineering Graphics II 2 3 2
R11MED1201 Engineering Workshop 0 3 2
English Language and
R11HAS1203 0 3 2
Communication Skills Lab
Total 21 11 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
16
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
B. Tech. MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11MTH1103 Mathematics III 3 1 3
R11MED1106 Mechanics of Solids I 4 1 4
R11MED1107 Thermodynamics 4 1 4
R11MED1108 Metallurgy and Material Science 3 0 3
R11EEE1132 Basic Electrical Engineering 3 0 3
R11MED1109 Machine Drawing 0 6 4
Metallurgy and Mechanics of
R11MED1203 0 3 2
Solids Lab
Electrical Technology and Electric
R11EEE1203 0 3 2
Circuits Lab
Total 17 15 25
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11MED1110 Mechanics of Solids II 4 1 4
R11MED1111 Kinematics of Machinery 4 1 4
Fluid Mechanics and
R11MED1112 3 1 3
TurboMachinery
R11MED1113 Applied Thermodynamics 4 1 4
R11MED1114 Production Technology 3 0 3
R11ECE1134 Basic Electronics 3 0 3
R11MED1204 Production Technology Lab and
0 3 2
Applied Thermodynamics Lab
Fluid Mechanics and
R11MED1205 0 3 2
TurboMachinery Lab
Total 21 10 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
17
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
B. TECH MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
III YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11MED1115 Dynamics of Machinery 4 1 4
R11MED1116 Mechanical Engineering Design I 4 1 4
Numerical Analysis and Linear
R11MTH1104 3 1 3
Programming
R11MED1117 Machine Tools 3 0 3
R11MED1118 Metrology and Instrumentation 3 0 3
R11MED1119 Computer Aided Design 3 0 3
Machine Tools Lab. and Metrology
R11MED1206 0 5 3
Lab.
CAD Lab. and Instrumentation
R11MED1207 0 3 2
Lab.
Total 20 11 25
III YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11MED1120 Mechanical Engineering Design II 4 1 4
R11AME1102 Structural Analysis 4 1 4
R11MED1121 Finite Element Method 3 1 3
R11MED1122 Heat and Mass Transfer 3 1 3
Business Economics and Financial
R11HAS1102 4 0 4
Analysis
R11CED1109 Environmental Studies 3 0 3
R11MED1208 Heat and Mass Transfer Lab 0 3 2
Advanced English Language
R11HAS1204 0 3 2
Communication Skills Laboratory
Total 21 10 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
18
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
B. Tech. MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
IV YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
R11HAS1103 Management Science 4 0 4
Elective I
R11MED1123 Mechanical Vibrations
R11MED1124 Automation in Manufacturing
R11MED1125 Gas Dynamics
4 0 4
R11MED1126 Advanced Mechanism Design
R11EIE1127 Advanced Instrumentation and
Control Systems
R11MED1127 CNC Technology
Elective II
R11MED1128 Theory of Elasticity and Plasticity
R11MED1129 Robotics
R11MED1130 Composite Materials 4 0 4
R11MED1131 Power Plant Engineering
R11MED1132 Advanced Machine Design
R11AME1110 Automobile Engineering
Elective III
R11MED1133 Mechatronics
R11MED1134 Advanced Mechanics of Solids
R11MED1135 Metal Forming
4 0 4
R11MED1136 Tribology
R11MED1137 Renewable Energy Sources:
Solar Energy
R11MED1138 Industrial Engineering
Elective IV
R11MED1139 Unconventional Machining
Processes
R11MED1140 Plant Layout and Material 3 0 3
Handling
R11MED1141 Computational Fluid Dynamics
R11EIE1123 Fundamentals of Biomedical
Instrumentation
R11MED1142 Industrial Management
R11MED1143 Theory of Metal Cutting
R11MED1209 CAD/CAM Lab 0 3 2
R11EIE1210 Automation Systems Design Lab 0 3 2
R11MED1301 Industry Oriented Mini – Project 0 8 2
Total 19 14 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
19
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
B. Tech. MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
IV YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Computer Integrated
R11MED1144 3 0 3
Manufacturing
Elective V
R11MED1145 NanoTechnology
R11MED1146 Theory of Plates and Shells
Production Planning and
R11MED1147
Control 3 0 3
Refrigeration and Air
R11MED1148
Conditioning
R11MED1149 Operations Research
R11MED1150 Tool Design
Elective VI
R11MED1151 BioMechanics and BioMaterials
R11MED1152 Precision Engineering
R11MED1153 Principles of Entrepreneurship
3 0 3
R11MED1154 Interactive Computer Graphics
Statistical Quality Control and
R11MED1155
TQM
R11MED1156 Fracture Mechanics
R11MED1302 Seminar 0 3 2
R11MED1303 Comprehensive Viva 0 0 2
R11MED1304 Major Project 6 12 12
Total 15 15 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
20
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MTH1101) MATHEMATICS I
(Advanced Calculus)
Course Prerequisites: Differentiation, Integration
Course Objectives:
 Understand Taylor’s theorem and its application to maxima and minima of f(x,y).
 Understand the process of curve sketching.
 Understand multiple integrals and its applications.
 Apply the integral theorems of vector calculus.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Compute maxima and minima of functions of two variables.
 Apply the curve tracing concepts to find arc length of curves, surface area and
volume of solids of revolution.
 Evaluate the multiple integrals using appropriate change of variables.
 Apply the integral theorems proficiently in analysis and solution of engineering
problems.
UNIT I
Elementary analysis
Sequences and series - convergence and divergence, ratio test, comparison test, integral
test, Cauchy’s root test, Raabe’s test (statements only for the tests), and absolute and
conditional convergence.
Mean value theorems (statements only) - Rolle’s theorem, Lagrange’s theorem, Cauchy’s
theorem, and generalized mean value theorem (Taylor’s Theorem).
UNIT II
Functions of several variables
Partial differentiation; Functional dependence; Jacobian; Maxima and Minima of functions of
two variables with constraints and without constraints.
Radius of curvature; Centre and circle of curvature – evolutes and envelopes.
UNIT III
Improper integrals and special functions
Improper Integrals; Beta, Gamma, and Error functions - Properties and simple applications.
21
UNIT IV
Curve tracing, applications of integration and multiple integrals
Curve tracing – Cartesian, polar, and parametric curves; Applications of integration to
lengths, volumes and surface areas in cartesian and polar coordinates.
Multiple integrals - double and triple integrals, change of variables, and change of order of
integration.
UNIT V
Vector calculus
Introduction to vector and scalar functions; Gradient, curl, divergence, and their related
properties of sums and products; Laplacian and second order operators; Vector integration -
line integral, work done, potential function; Area, surface, and volume integrals; Statements
of Vector integral theorems and their verification (without proofs) - Green’s theorem, Stoke’s
theorem, and Gauss divergence theorem.
TEXT BOOK
Calculus and Analytic Geometry by Thomas and Finney, 9th edition; Publisher: Pearson
Education.
REFERENCE
1. Elementary Analysis: The Theory of Calculus by Kenneth Ross; Publisher: Springer
2. Principles of Mathematical Analysis by Walter Rudin (1976); 3rd edition; Publisher:
Paperback.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition; Publisher: John
Wiley.
4. Calculus by Tom M. Apostol; Volume1 and Volume 2 (2003); 2nd edition; Publisher:
John Wiley
5. Schaum’s Outline of Vector Analysis by Murray R. Spiegel (2011); 2nd edition;
Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
22
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11PHY1101) ENGINEERING PHYSICS I
Course prerequisites: General Physics
Course Objectives:
 To supplement and enhance the basic concepts in Physics essentially required in
the study of materials as well as interaction of light with matter, interaction of light
with matter through physical phenomena like interference, diffraction and
polarization.
 To know and understand some important applications of lasers and optical fibers.
 To learn the importance of wave and particle nature of light and to understand the
behavior of an electron in one dimensional potential box.
 To understand the effect of temperature on Fermi Dirac Distribution Function and
also learn the behavior of an electron in a periodic potential, the new concept of
Effective mass of an electron and to know the classification of materials into
conductors, semiconductors and insulators.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Understand the Phenomenon of Interference, Diffraction& Polarization.
 Learn the principle, working, construction and energy mechanism of various
lasers and their applications explain the light signal propagation and attenuation
through optical fiber.
 Understand the differences between particle and wave nature, energy states in
one dimensional potential box
 Understand the Consequences of Heisenberg‘s Uncertainty principle.
 Understand the one dimensional Schrodinger‘s wave equation and the effect of
temperature on Fermi-Dirac Distribution, Kronig Penny model.
UNIT I
Interference and diffraction
Superposition principle; Resultant amplitude; Coherence - methods to obtain coherent
sources; Interference; Young’s double slit experiment; Interference in thin films by reflection;
Newton’s rings experiment; Distinction between Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction;
Diffraction at single slit - Qualitative and Quantitative (Phasors approach); Diffraction at
double slit - Circular aperture and multiple slits – grating (Qualitative Approach); Resolution
of spectral lines; Rayleigh criterion; Resolving power of grating and telescope.
23
UNIT II
Polarization
Polarization phenomenon; Brewster’s Law and Malus’ law; Examples; Types of polarization;
Double refraction; Nicol prism; Quarter and half wave plates.
Lasers
Characteristics of lasers – spontaneous and stimulated emission of radiation, meta stable
state, population inversion, and lasing action; Einstein’s coefficients and relation between
them; Ruby laser; Helium-Neon laser; Carbon dioxide laser; Semiconductor Laser;
Applications of lasers.
UNIT III
Fiber optics
Principle of optical fiber; Acceptance angle and acceptance cone; Numerical aperture;
Types of fibers and refractive index profiles; Qualitative analysis of attenuation in optical
fibers; Application of optical fibers.
Crystal structures
Space lattice; Unit cell; Lattice parameter; Crystal systems; Bravais lattices; Atomic radius;
Co-ordination number; Structures and packing fractions of simple cubic – body centered
cubic – face centered cubic crystals; Hexagonal closed packed crystals; Structures of
diamond, NaCl.
UNIT IV
Directions, planes, and XRD
Miller Indices for Crystal planes and directions; Inter planar spacing of orthogonal crystal
systems; Diffraction of X-rays by crystal planes and Bragg’s law; Laue method; Powder
method; Applications of X-ray diffraction.
Bonding in solids
Force and energy between two approaching atoms; Primary and secondary bonds; Binding
energy and cohesive energy; Madelung constant; Cohesive energy and Madelung constant
for NaCl crystal.
Defects in solids
Imperfections in crystals; Point defects (vacancies, interstitial and impurities); Schottky and
Frenkel defects (with mathematical treatment); Line imperfections; Edge and screw
dislocation; Burger vector; Surface defects and volume defects (qualitative treatment).
UNIT V
Surface physics
Surface electronic structure (work function - thermionic emission, surface states, and
tangential surface transport); Electron microscope; Scanning tunneling microscope.
Science and technology of nanomaterials
Origin of nanotechnology – Basic principles of Nanoscience and Technology; Surface to
volume ratio; Quantum confinement; Fabrication of nanomaterials - bottom up fabrication
(sol-gel and combustion methods), top down fabrication (CVD and PVD methods);
Characterization (XRD and TEM); Applications of nanotechnology.
24
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel; Publisher: John Wiley
2. Physics, Vol.2, by Halliday, Resnick and Krane; Publisher: John Wiley
3. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal; Publisher: IK International Publishing House.
4. Optics by A. Ghatak; Publisher: Tata Mc Graw Hill
REFERENCE
1. Engineering Physics by R.K.Gaur and S.L.Gupta; Publisher: Dhanpat Rai.
2. Solid State Physics by S.O.Pillai; Publisher: New Age International.
3. Engineering Physics by M Chandra Shekar and P. Appala Naidu; Publisher: VGS Book
links.
4. Solid State Physics by A.J.Dekker; Publisher: Macmillan Publishers.
5. Solid State Physics by N.W.Ashcroft and N.David Merwin; Publisher: Thomson
Learning.
6. Engineering Physics by Jain, Sanjay D. and Sahasrabudhe, Girish G.; Publisher:
Universities Press.
7. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
8. Optical Fiber Communications by G. Keiser; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
9. Fundamentals of Molecular Spectroscopy by Banwell; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
25
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11CHE1102) CHEMISTRY OF ENGINEERING MATERIALS
Course Prerequisites: General Chemistry
Course Objectives:
 A sustainable energy supply, is needed for promoting economic development as
well as protecting the environment.
 Understanding the significance of various Engineering materials like cement
abrasives, adhesives and composites in structural enhancement of materials.
 Exposure to refractories and ceramics in industries and most recently, aerospace
technology.
 Familiarize lubricants as a basic and fundamental necessity for the maintenance
of any machines.
Course outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Acquire knowledge of the types of fuels, their sources and purification techniques.
 Understand the various purification techniques of various fuels
 Understand the manufacturing process of cement, its properties and usage of
abrasives, adhesives and composites in various industrial processes.
 Benefits of refractories as heat-resistant materials and applications of ceramics in
various fields.
 Knowledge of lubricants in regard to their applications in various machines.
UNIT I
Energy sources
Fuels - classification (solid, liquid, gaseous), calorific value of fuel (HCV, LCV),
determination of calorific value by bomb calorimeter; Solid fuels – coal – analysis –
proximate and ultimate analysis and their significance; Liquid fuels – petroleum, refining of
petroleum, cracking, knocking, synthetic petrol – Bergius and Fischer- Tropsch’s process,
and biodiesel (properties and significance); Gaseous fuels – natural gas, LPG, CNG
(composition and uses), analysis of flue gas by Orsat’s method, determination of calorific
value by Junker’s gas calorimeter; Combustion – problems.
UNIT II
Cement
Types of cement; Chemical constituents and composition of Portland cement;
Manufacturing methods of Portland cement (wet and dry processes); Properties of cement -
Setting and Hardening of cement (reactions); Testing of cement; Decay of cement; Cement
concrete - RCC.
26
UNIT III
Engineering materials
III a) Abrasives - Introduction, types of abrasives, working of abrasives, classification and
chemical composition of abrasives, and their applications.
III b) Adhesives - Introduction, criteria of a good adhesive, classification of adhesives and
their applications, advantages and disadvantages of adhesives.
UNIT IV
Refractories and Ceramics
Refractories: Definition; Classification with examples; Characteristics of a good refractory;
Causes for the failure of a refractory material; Properties of refractories - refractoriness, RUL
test, chemical inertness, dimensional stability, thermal expansion and contraction, thermal
conductivity, porosity, electrical conductivity, heat capacity ,permeability, thermal spalling,
and texture.
Ceramics: Introduction; Classification; Glazed ceramics; Applications of ceramics.
UNIT V
Lubricants
Criteria of a good lubricant; Classification of lubricants-lubricating oils; Greases or semisolid
lubricants; Solid lubricants; Mechanism of lubrication-fluid film lubrication, boundary
lubrication, and extreme pressure lubrication; Properties of lubricants - viscosity, cloudpoint,
pour point, flash and fire point, mechanical stability, saponification number, neutralization
number, aniline point, oiliness, and carbon residue.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari and Jyotsna Cherukuri;
Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain and Monica Jain; Publisher: Dhanpatrai.
REFERENCE
1. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Balram Pani; Publisher: Galgotia Publications.
2. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara and Mukkanti; Publisher: S.Chand.
3. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by C.P.Murthy, C.V.Agrawal, and A.Naidu;
Publisher: B.S.Publications.
4. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, and Sulochana
Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
27
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11CSE1101) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING
Course Prerequisites: Knowledge on Computers and Mathematics
Course Objectives:
 Gain a working knowledge of C programming.
 Learn how to write modular, efficient and readable C.
 Utilize pointers to efficiently solve problems.
 Use functions from the portable C library.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Understand the fundamentals of computer programming.
 Choose the loops and decision making statements to solve the problems.
 Understand and relate different derived data types and also knowledge and skills
of applying structured programming methods to solve the given problem.
 Trade-offs involved in choosing static versus dynamic memory allocation and
identify appropriate file operation in c programming for a given application
UNIT I
Introduction to computers
Computer systems; Computing environments (DOS/Linux); Computer languages; Linux
command for creating and running programs; Software development methods; Algorithms;
Pseudo code; Flow charts; Applying the software development method.
UNIT II
Introduction to C language
History; Simple C programme; Identifiers; Basic data types; Variables; Constants; Type
qualifiers; Input/ Output; Operators; Expressions - precedence and associativity, and
expression evaluation; Type conversions; Bit wise operators; Statements; Simple C
programming examples.
Selection statements – if and switch statements; Repetition statements – while, for, do-while
statements, and loop examples; Other statements related to looping – break, continue, go to
statements, and C Programming examples.
UNIT III
Designing structured programs
Functions – basics; user defined functions; inter-function communication, standard
functions, and scope; Storage classes - auto, register, static, extern, and scope rules;
Recursive functions; Example C programs.
28
Arrays – Basic concepts, one-dimensional arrays, two – dimensional arrays,
multidimensional arrays, arrays to functions, C program examples.
Strings – Basic concepts, String input/ output functions, arrays of strings, string handling
functions, strings to functions, C programme examples.
UNIT IV
Derived data types
Structures – basic concepts, nested structures, arrays of structures, structures and
functions, unions, typedef, bit fields, enumerated types, and C programming examples.
Pointers
Basic concepts; Pointers and functions; Pointers and strings; Pointers and arrays; Pointers
and structures; Self referential structures; Example C programs.
UNIT V
File I/O
Basic concepts; Text files and binary files; File input/ output operations; File status functions
(error handling); Command-Line Arguments, C program examples.
Preprocessor directives.
Dynamic memory allocation.
TEXT BOOKS
1. C Programming: A Problem-Solving Approach by Behrouz A. Forouzan, Richard
F.Gilberg, and E.V.Prasad; Publisher: Cengage Learning.
2. The C Programming Language by Brian W. Kernighan and Dennis M. Ritchie;
Publisher: Prentice Hall.
REFERENCE
1. Let us C by Yashavant Kanetkar; Publisher: BPB Publications
2. C: How to Program by Paul Deitel and Harvey Deitel; Publisher: Prentice Hall
3. Absolute Beginner's Guide to C by Greg M. Perry, Edition 2; Publisher: Sams Pub.,
1994
29
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11MED1101) ENGINEERING MECHANICS I
Course Prerequisites: Physics, Mathematics
Course Objectives:
 Understand particle, body, rigid body, concept of force, analysis of forces
acting on a rigid body.
 Understand moment and the principle of moments.
 Understand friction and its implications.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Draw the free body diagram of a body acted upon by a system of forces.
 Analyze the forces acting on a body and write the equations of equilibrium.
 Write the moment equations of equilibrium.
UNIT I
Concurrent forces in a plane
Principles of statics; Composition and resolution of forces; Equilibrium of concurrent forces
in a plane; Method of projections; Equilibrium of three forces in a plane; Method of
moments; Friction.
UNIT II
Parallel forces in a plane
Two parallel forces; General case of parallel forces in a plane; Center of parallel forces and
center of gravity; Centroids of composite plane figures and curves; Distributed force in a
plane.
UNIT III
General case of forces in a plane
Composition of forces in a plane; Equilibrium of forces in a plane; Plane trusses: Method of
joints; Plane trusses: Method of sections; Plane frames: Method of members; The funicular
polygon; Maxwell diagrams; Distributed force in a plane; Flexible suspension cables.
30
UNIT IV
Force systems in space
Concurrent forces in space - method of projections, and method of moments; Couples in
space; Parallel forces in space; Center of parallel forces and center of gravity; General case
of forces in space.
UNIT V
Moments of inertia of a plane figure
Moment of inertia of a plane figure with respect to an axis in its plane; Moment of inertia of a
plane figure with respect to an axis perpendicular to the plane of the figure; Parallel-axis
theorem; Product of inertia and principal axes; Principal axes and principal moments of
inertia.
Moments of inertia of material bodies
Moments of inertia of a rigid body; Moment of inertia of a lamina; Moment of inertia of three-
dimensional bodies; Product of inertia and principal axes; Change of direction of axes of
inertia.
TEXT BOOK
Engineering Mechanics by S.Timoshenko and D.H.Young; Publisher: McGraw Hill
31
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11EEE1130) ELEMENTS OF ENGINEERING
Course Prerequisites: General Science, Mathematics
Course Objectives:
 Understand and acquire knowledge on different elements of Engineering.
 Gain knowledge on constructional materials and elements of civil
engineering.
 Understand various power and energy generating Systems.
 Understand various transportation vehicles both air and surface.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Understand the basics of Electrical Engineering.
 Understand the basics of Civil Engineering.
 Understand the basics of power generating systems.
 Understand the basics of different types transportation systems
ELEMENTS OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
UNIT I
Construction and facilities
Introduction - Impact of Infrastructural development on the economy of a country, role of civil
engineers, importance of planning, scheduling in construction management;
Surveying - linear measurements, elevation measurements, areas, volumes, modern tools
of surveying like total station, GPS, and GIS;
Construction materials - Importance of civil engineering materials like stones, bricks,
cement, timber, reinforcing steel, paints, glass in construction;
Soils and foundations - Types of soils, SBC of soils, suitable foundations for structures like
buildings; bridges and towers;
Roads and highways - camber, stopping sight distance, overtaking sight distance, BOT
projects;
Planning of buildings - building byelaws and regulations, planning of residential and
commercial facilities like institutes, hospitals, shopping malls, and theatres;
Dams and Reservoir - water requirements and its conservation, hydraulic structures of
storage and water conveyance systems.
32
ELEMENTS OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
UNIT II
Power (energy) systems
Block diagram of a power system; sources of energy; Conventional, non-conventional and
renewable energy; Application; Resource availability; Power produced; Torque, Speed, and
Efficiency; Materials used in turbine shafts; Blades; Nozzles; Diagnostics and condition
monitoring; Commercial feasibility of power systems.
(Turbine)
UNIT III
Transport Vehicles (surface and air)
Road Vehicles - power plant in vehicles, transmission; steering, chassis, body, and wheels
and axles
Rail vehicles - distinction of rail vehicles from road vehicles;
Air vehicles - aeroplane and its parts;
Space vehicles - rockets, 2 stage, 3 stage and 4 stage rockets, and solid and liquid fuels;
Sea Vehicles – power plant, transmission, steering, and hull.
ELEMENTS OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
UNIT IV
Electrical power systems
Electrical power generation concept; A.C generator-principle; Steam power plant (thermal
power plant); Hydel power plant (layouts only); Efficiency-transformer-principle-need-types;
Fuse-Substation-simple problems.
UNIT V
Utilization of electrical energy
Electrical heating-advantages; Resistance heating; Illumination; Definitions; Laws of
illumination; Working of Incandescent lamp and Fluorescent lamps; Electric Welding;
Electric Traction-Block diagram; Simplified speed-time curve; Energy meter (principle only).
TEXT BOOKS
1. Electrical Engineering Fundamentals by Vincent Deltora, Prentice Hall of India, 2nd
edition.
2. Art and Science of Utilization of Electrical Energy by H.Partab; Publisher: Dhanpat
Rai.
3. Non-Conventional Energy Sources by G.D. Roy; Publisher: Khanna Publishers.
4. Automotive Mechanics by William Crouse and David Anglin; Publisher: McGraw Hill
REFERENCE
1. A Course in Utilization of Electrical Energy by S.K. Girdhar, G.C. Garg, and S.M. Dhir;
Publisher: Khanna Publishers.
2. Electrical Power Systems by Soni, Gupta, and Batnagar; Publisher: Dhanpat Rai.
3. Generation, Distribution and Utilization of Electrical Energy by C.L. Wadhwa;
Publisher: New Age International.
33
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
2 3 2
(R11MED1102) ENGINEERING GRAPHICS I
Course Prerequisites: Geometrical Construction
Course Objectives:
 Understand the usage of drawing instruments.
 Understand the construction methods for drawing conic sections.
 Identify the significance of curves in engineering practice like bridges,
building, arches etc.
 Understand first and third angle projections and methods.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
 Analyze and apply the concept of scales and curves and Solve the
problems as per the drawing conventions
 Analyze and apply the concept of projections and solve the problems on
Projections for lines, planes and solids
 Analyze and solve the problems on Auxiliary views of planes and solids
 Apply the knowledge of AutoCAD Solve all the problems
UNIT I
Introduction to AutoCAD.
Introduction to engineering drawing
Principles of engineering graphics and their significance; Drawing instruments and their
uses; Conventions in drawing-lettering; BIS Convention; Different types of scales; Scale of
chords.
UNIT II
Curves used in engineering practice and their construction
Ellipse; Parabola; Hyperbola and rectangular hyperbola; Cycloid; Epicycloids; Hypocycloid –
involutes.
UNIT III
Orthographic projection
Points and straight lines inclined to both planes; True lengths and traces.
34
UNIT IV
Projection of planes
Projection of regular planes inclined to both planes; Auxiliary projections.
UNIT V
Projection of solids
Projection of regular solids-inclined to both planes; Auxiliary projections.
TEXT BOOK
Elementary Engineering Drawing by N.D. Bhat; Publisher: Charotar Publishing House
REFERENCE
Engineering Drawing by K.L. Narayana and P. Kannaiah; Publisher: Scitech Publications.
Engineering Graphics for degree by K.C. John; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
35
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11EPC1201) ENGINEERING PHYSICS AND CHEMISTRY LAB
Course Prerequisites: General Physics and Chemistry
Course Objectives:
 To practically learn interaction of light with matter through physical phenomena
like interference, diffraction and dispersion.
 To expose to the principle of superposition and resonance.
 To demonstrate the formation of standing waves and to understand the
mechanical wave behavior and to determine Rigidity Modulus of different
materials of wires.
 To demonstrate basic discharge phenomenon in capacitors and to know the
characteristics of the circuit elements, like resistors, capacitors and inductors.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Understand clearly the interference principle in wave theory of light and able to
relate it to the formation of Newton Rings and Obtain a pure spectrum when light
passes through prism.
 Understand the formation and propagation of mechanical waves.
 Study simple oscillations of a load attached to a string and relate it to nature of
material of string.
 Understand the extent of hardness range present in a water sample and its
consequences if used for various industrial operations.
 Determination of strength of solutions, pH of various solutions, lubricants usage in
machinery to prevent wear and tear.
 Understanding the composition of soap used for washings.
ENGINEERING PHYSICS LABORATORY
Any eight experiments from the following:
1. Dispersive power of the material of a prism using spectrometer.
2. Diffraction grating (both with laser and non-laser source).
3. Single slit with laser light.
4. Newton’s ring.
5. Finding thickness of a thin wire or sheet by forming a wedge-shaped film.
6. Energy gap of a semiconductor material.
7. Torsional pendulum expt. to determine the rigidity modulus of material of a wire.
8. Melde’s experiment.
9. Sonometer experiment.
36
10. Numerical aperture and acceptance angle of an optical fiber cable.
11. Stewart Gee’s experiment.
12. Characteristics of LED.
13. Photo cell/ solar cell.
Book: Essential Practical Lab Manual of Physics: by P.Raghavendra Rao
ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY: LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
Course Prerequisites: General Maths, General chemistry.
Course Objectives:
 Estimation of hardness of water is essential for drinking water and in industries to
avoid boiler troubles.
 Knowledge of instrumentation in Colorimeter, Redwood viscometer, Conductivity
meter and pH meter.
 Knowledge of preparation of soap.
Course Outcomes: Students will be able to
 Understand the extent of hardness range present in a water sample and its
consequences if used for various industrial operations.
 Determination of strength of solutions, pH of various solutions, lubricants usage in
machinery to prevent wear and tear.
 Understanding the composition of soap used for washings.
1. Titrimetry
a) Estimation of hardness of water by EDTA method.
2. Instrumental methods
(i) Conductometry
a) Conductometric titration of strong acid vs strong base
(ii) Colorimetry
a) Estimation of copper by colorimetric method
(iii) Potentiometry
a) Titration of strong acid vs strong base by potentiometry
3. Physical properties
a) Determination of viscosity of sample oil by Redwood viscometer.
4. Preparation of organic compounds
a) Preparation of aspirin or Thiokol rubber
TEXT BOOKS
1. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by S.K.Bhasin and Sudha Rani;
Publisher: Dhanpat Rai.
2. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari and Jyotsna
Cherukuri; Publisher: VGS Book Links.
37
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem. L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11CSE1201) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING LABORATORY
Course Prerequisites: Knowledge on Computers and Mathematics
Course Objectives:
 Learn how to write modular, efficient and readable C programs.
 Utilize pointers to efficiently solve problems.
 Utilize searching and sorting concepts to solve problem.
 Use functions from the portable C library.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
 Implement basic command s in Linux.
 Able to write, compile and debug programs in c language.
 Implement appropriate decision making statements and derived data types to
solve a given problem.
 Realize different file operations in c programming
Week 1
1. Write a program using C (WAP) that reads three different integers from the keyboard
and prints – sum, average, product, smallest, and largest of the numbers.
2. WAP that reads two integers and prints – difference, quotient, and remainder.
3. WAP that reads two integers and determines whether the first is a multiple of the other.
Week 2
1. WAP to find the sum of individual digits of a positive integer.
2. WAP to generate Fibonacci sequence (1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8,….).
3. WAP to generate all the prime numbers between 1 and n, where n is a value supplied
by the user.
Week 3
1. WAP to calculate the following sum:
Sum=1-x2/2! +x4/4!-x6/6!+x8/8!-x10/10!
2. WAP to find the roots of a quadratic equation.
Week 4
1. WAP which takes two integer operands and one operator from the user, performs the
operation and then prints the result (consider the operators +,-,*, /, % and use switch
statement).
2. WAP to construct pyramids of numbers.
38
Week 5
1 WAP to print a given number [0-1000] in words. For example, 123 as “One Hundred
and Twenty Three”.
2 WAP to check whether a given number is an Armstrong, Palindrome, Perfect, Prime,
or a Fibonacci prime number.
3 WAP to find both the largest and smallest number in a list of integers.
Week 6
1. Implementation of functions categories.
2. Write C programs that use both recursive and non-recursive functions:
i) to find the factorial of a given integer.
ii) to find the GCD (greatest common divisor) of two given integers.
Week 7
1. WAP to calculate
i) minimum and maximum of an 1-d array.
ii) sorting and searching of 1-D array.
iii) addition and multiplication of two matrices
Week 8
1. Programs on string handling functions-copying, reverse, substring, concatenation.
2. Programs on structure and unions.
Week 9
Midterm exam
Week 10
Programs using pointers - pointer basic operations, and pointers and functions.
Week 11
Program on pointers and structures, pointers and arrays, and pointers and strings.
Week 12
Implementation of file operations and error handling.
Week 13
Implementation of dynamic memory allocation.
Week 14
Programs using command line arguments.
Week 15
Implementation of preprocessor directives.
Week 16
Internal Lab Exam
39
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MTH1102) MATHEMATICS II
(Linear Algebra and Ordinary Differential Equations)
Course prerequisites: Matrices, Differentiation and Integration
Course Objectives:
 Understand the Echolen form and Normal form of a matrix and its applications in
solving linear system of equations.
 Understand the methods of solving first order differential equations and learn
about its applications to L-R and R-C circuits.
 Apply the convolution theorem to evaluate Laplace Transform of the functions.
 Apply Z-Transforms in solving the difference equations.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Find the rank using Echelon form and Normal form.
 Solve the problems in first order and second order differential equations.
 Learn Laplace Transform as a tool.
 Evaluate the Z-Transform of the given function.
LINEAR ALGEBRA
UNIT I
Solution of linear systems
Matrices and linear systems of equations - elementary row transformations, Rank Echelon
form, and normal form; Solution of linear systems - direct methods - LU decomposition, LU
decomposition from Gauss elimination, and solution of Tri-diagonal systems; Eigen values,
eigen vectors, and their properties - Liner dependence and independence; Cayley-Hamilton
theorem - inverse and powers of a matrix by Cayley-Hamilton theorem, diagonalization of a
matrix, calculation of powers of a matrix; Modal and spectral matrices.
UNIT II
Linear transformations
Real matrices - symmetric, skew symmetric, and orthogonal linear transformation; Complex
matrices - Hermitian, Skew-Hermitian and unitary matrices; Eigen values and eigen
vectors of complex matrices and their properties; Quadratic forms - reduction of quadratic
form to canonical form, rank, positive, negative definite, semi definite, index, signature,
Sylvester law, and singular value decomposition.
40
ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
UNIT III
Ordinary differential equations and their applications
Differential equations of first order and first degree - Linear, Bernoulli and exact differential
equation; Applications of differential equations of first order and first degree - Newton’s law
of cooling, law of natural growth and decay, orthogonal trajectories, and basic circuits.
UNIT IV
Differential equations of higher order and their applications
Differential equations of higher order - homogeneous and non-homogenous type, differential
equations of second order and higher order with constant coefficients with right hand side
ax ax
term of the type e , sin (ax), cos (ax), polynomials in x, e V(x), x V(x), and method
of variation of parameters; Applications to bending of beams; Mechanical systems - simple
harmonic motion.
UNIT V
Linear differential equations and qualitative methods
Cauchy’s linear differential equation; Legendre’s differential equations; Simultaneous linear
differential equations; The phase plane; Phase portraits and direction fields; Critical points
and stability.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K Jain and S.R.K Iyengar, 3rd edition;
Publisher: Narosa Publications, 2011.
2. Differential Equations by Dennis G. Zill; Publisher: Cengage learning, 2011.
REFERENCE
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition; Publisher: John
Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher:
Cengage Learning.
3. Elementary Differential Equations and Boundary Value Problems by William E. Boyce
and Richard C. Diprima; Publisher: Wiley.
4. Linear Algebra and its applications by David C Clay; Publisher: Pearson Education.
5. Differential Equations, with Applications and Historical Notes by George F. Simmons
and John S. Robertson (2008) 2nd Edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
6. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Dennis G. Zill, Warren S. Wright, and Michael
R. Cullen, 4th edition; Publisher: Jones and Bartlett Learning.
41
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11PHY1102) ENGINEERING PHYSICS II
Course Prerequisites: General Physics
Course Objectives:
 To learn the structure of solids, crystal systems, packing and arrangement of
particles in crystals, simple planes and directions in solids, defects in crystals.
 To learn the properties of magnetic materials and classification, Dielectric
materials.
 To learn the concept and applications of superconductors.
 To introduce new concepts like surface phenomena and nano science.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Identify different crystal types various planes and directions in crystals and
estimate one dimensional crystal defects.
 Learn the magnetic properties of materials classify the magnetic materials into
Dia, Para and ferro.
 Learn the characteristics, properties and applications of superconductors and
magnetic materials.
 Realize surface phenomena are different from bulk; learn methods to estimate
work functions and Compare optical and electron microscopes
 Learn principles of SEM &TEM.
UNIT I
Elements of statistical mechanics
Maxwell-Boltzmann; Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics (non mathematical treatment);
Photon gas; Planck’s law of black body radiation; Deduction of Wein’s law and Rayleigh-
Jeans law from Plank’s law.
Principles of quantum mechanics
Waves and particles; De Broglie hypothesis; Matter waves; Davisson and Germer
experiment; Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle; Schrodinger wave equation; Wave function
and its physical significance - Particle in one dimensional potential box (wave functions,
probability densities, and energy states).
UNIT II
Free electron Fermi gas
Energy levels in one dimension; Effect of temperature on the Fermi-Dirac distribution; Free
electron gas in three dimensions; Electrical conductivity and Ohm’s law; Electrical resistivity
of metals (Qualitative); Thermal conductivity of metals.
42
Band theory of solids
Electron in a periodic potential - Bloch theorem - Kronig-Penney model (non mathematical
treatment); Origin of energy band formation in solids; Classification of materials into
conductors, semiconductors and insulators; Concept of effective mass of an electron.
UNIT III
Semiconductor physics
Fermi level in intrinsic and extrinsic semiconductors; Intrinsic semiconductor and carrier
concentration; Extrinsic semiconductor and carrier concentration; Equation of continuity;
Direct and indirect band gap semiconductors; Hall effect.
Physics of semiconductor devices
Formation of P-N junction; Open circuit P-N junction; Energy diagram of diode; I/ V
characteristics of P-N junction diode; P-N diode as a rectifier; Diode equation; LED.
UNIT IV
Magnetic properties
Permeability; Field intensity, magnetic field induction, magnetization and magnetic
susceptibility; Origin of magnetic moment - Bohr magneton; Classification of magnetic
materials (Dia, Para, and Ferro); Domain theory of ferromagnetism - Hysteresis curve – soft
and hard magnetic materials; Properties of anti ferro and ferri magnetic materials – ferrites
and their applications.
UNIT V
Superconductors
Experimental survey and superconductivity phenomenon; Meissner effect; Critical fields and
Persistent currents; Type I and Type II superconductors; London equations; Flux
quantization; BCS theory; Josephson effect; High temperature superconductors;
Applications of superconductors.
Dielectric properties
Electric dipole; Dipole moment; Dielectric constant; Electronic, ionic and orientation
polarization; Calculation of Polarizibilities; Internal fields; Claussius; Mossotti equation;
Piezo and ferro electricity.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel; Publisher: John Wiley (for UNITS
II to V)
2. Concepts of Modern Physics by Arthur Beiser; Publisher: McGraw Hill Inc.
3. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal; Publisher: IK International Publishing House.
REFERENCE
1. Solid State Physics by S.O.Pillai; Publisher: New Age International.
2. Solid State Physics by A.J.Dekker; Publisher: Macmillan Publishers.
3. Engineering Physics by M. Chandra Shekar and P. Appala Naidu; Publisher: VGS
Book links.
4. Solid State Physics by N.W. Ashcroft and N. David Merwin; Publisher: Thomson
Learning.
43
5. Engineering Physics by Jain, Sanjay D. and Sahasrabudhe, Girish G.; Publisher:
Universities Press.
6. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India
7. Engineering Physics by M.R.Srinivasan; Publisher: New Age International.
44
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11CHE1101) ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
Course Prerequisites: General Chemistry
Course Objectives:
 Understand electrochemistry which deals with the utilization of electrical energy of
an external source for bringing about a physical or chemical change.
 Knowledge of “Corrosion engineering education” and Usage of polymers in
modern world as an integral part of every human’s life.
 Knowledge of purification techniques and various applications of soft water in
industries.
 Usage of nanomaterials as emerging scientific components with amazing
potential applications in various fields.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Visualize the chemical applications of electricity.
 Prevention of corrosion of metals
 Applications of polymers from domestic articles to sophisticated scientific and
medical instruments.
 Benefits of treated water as source in steam generation and other fields like
production of steel, paper, textiles, atomic energy etc.
 The applicability and greater efficiency of using a material at nanoscale in
different Engineering fields
UNIT I
Electrochemical cells and batteries
Cell representation; Galvanic cells; Single electrode potential; Standard electrode potential;
Electrochemical series; Nernst equation; Concentration cells; Reference electrodes –
hydrogen, calomel, quinhydrone electrode; Ion selective electrodes (glass electrode and
flouride electrode); Numerical problems.
Batteries
Primary and secondary cells (lead-acid cell; Ni-Cd cell; lithium cells); Applications of
batteries; Fuel cells – hydrogen – oxygen fuel cells, advantages of fuel cells; Solar cells -
working, principle, and applications.
UNIT II
Corrosion and its control
Introduction; Causes and effects of corrosion; Different types of corrosion; Theories of
corrosion – chemical, electrochemical corrosion (reactions); Factors affecting corrosion –
nature of metal (galvanic series; over voltage; purity of metal; nature of oxide film; nature of
45
corrosion product), and nature of environment (effect of temperature; effect of pH; humidity;
effect of oxidant). Corrosion control methods – cathodic protection, sacrificial anode, and
impressed current cathode;
Surface coatings – methods of application on metals (hot dipping; galvanizing; tinning;
cladding; electroplating), organic surface coatings (paints - constituents and functions).
UNIT III
Polymers
Introduction; Types of polymerization; Plastics - thermoplastic resins, and thermoset resins;
Compounding and fabrication of plastics; Preparation, properties, and engineering
applications of polyethylene, PVC, PS, teflon, bakelite, nylon.
Rubber
Characteristics and uses of rubber - natural rubber, and vulcanization; Elastomers (Buna-s;
Butyl rubber; thiokol rubbers); Fibers – polyester; Fiber reinforced plastics (FRP) and their
applications.
UNIT IV
Water
Introduction; Hardness - causes, expression of hardness, units, types of hardness,
estimation of temporary and permanent hardness of water, and numerical problems; Boiler
troubles – scale and sludge formation, caustic embrittlement, corrosion, priming and
foaming; Softening of water (Internal and external treatment - lime soda, zeolite, ion
exchange process, and numerical problems); Reverse osmosis and Electro dialysis
(desalination processes).
UNIT V
Nanomaterials
Introduction; Preparation and applications of nanomaterials with special reference to carbon
nanotubes.
Insulators
Classification of insulators; characteristics of thermal and electrical insulators and their
applications; Superconductors - Nb-Sn alloy, YBa Cu O ; Applications of
2 3 7-x
superconductors.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari and Jyotsna Cherukuri;
Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain and Monica Jain, Publisher: Dhanpatrai Publishing
Company.
REFERENCE
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara and Mukkanti; Publisher: S.Chand.
2. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by C.P.Murthy, C.V.Agrawal, and A.Naidu;
Publisher: B.S.Publications.
46
3. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, and Sulochana
Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
47
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11HAS1101) ENGLISH
Course Prerequisites: General English
Course Objectives:
 To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for advanced writing and
speaking.
 To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns and
grammatical constructions required in technical writing as well as oral
presentation.
 To acquaint the students with the writing process in preparation for
academic and workplace writing.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Comprehend technical communication produced in the engineering
profession.
 Understand the writing process and create logical paragraphs.
 Use infrastructural patterns in writing and speaking.
 Communicate coherently orally and in writing.
Introduction
This is the age of information and communication technologies. Engineers and technical
professionals need to convey technical information in English for various purposes.
Besides learning general English as an international language, engineering students need
to be equipped with adequate writing ability so that they can communicate technical
information clearly on at least a basic level. A good English writing proficiency can be a
contributing factor to professional recognition and career prospects. This course teaches
those writing strategies that scientists, engineers, and others will need in order to write
successfully on the job. It initiates the students into Technical Writing. The purposes of
technical writing are to inform and persuade. This program aims to train students in writing
clear, concise and effective English.
This Syllabus is therefore, a Pragmatic English Writing Program for engineering students
with intermediate proficiency. The program covers a syllabus outline and instructional
approaches on basic writing skills with particular reference to technical writing.
Objectives
i) To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for advanced writing and speaking.
ii) To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns and grammatical
constructions required of in technical writing.
48
iii) To acquaint the students with the writing process, beginning with paragraph writing.
This would prepare them for academic and workplace writing.
iv) Equip the students with Oral Communication Skills.
Methodology
A Task-based, process oriented methodology will be used by the teachers to give a practical
orientation to the teaching of language. An inductive approach will be used to demonstrate
the use of language in context. This should enable the students to internalize the language
structures and vocabulary used in context. Students will be exposed to numerous examples
and ample practice will be given in the contextual use of language structures.
Syllabus Outline
UNIT I
Prose:
1. Heaven’s Gate by Pico Iyer
2. The Connoisseur by Nergis Dalal
UNIT II
Basic grammar
i) Common errors v) Use of articles and prepositions
ii) Subject-Verb agreement vi) Conjunctions
iii) Adverbs vii) Pronoun reference
iv) Transitional elements
UNIT III
Reading and writing skills
i) Reading comprehension vi) Synonyms and antonyms
ii) Paragraph writing vii) One word substitutes
iii) Letter writing viii) Prefixes and suffixes
iv) Memo writing ix) Idioms and phrases
v) Words often confused
UNIT IV
Prose
1. The Cuddalore Experience by Anu George
2. The Odds Against Us by Satyajit Ray
UNIT V
Technical writing component
A. Definition of a Technical Term
B. Description of a Mechanism
C. Description of a Technical Process
D. Classification
E. Cause and Effect
F. Comparison and Contrast
49
G. Analogy
TEXT BOOKS
1. Effective Technical Communication by M. Ashraf Rizvi; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Technical Communication: Principles and Practices by M. Raman and S. Sharma;
Publisher: Oxford University Press, 2004 (Indian Edition).
REFERENCE
1. Technical Writing Process and Product by Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson, 3rd
edition; Publisher: Prentice Hall 1999
2. Blanton, L.L. 1993; Composition Practice, Book 4 ,Second Edition; Publisher: Heinle
and Heinle Publishers, pp. 54
3. Georges, T.M. 1996; A course in Analytical Writing for Science and Technology,
http://www.mspiggy.etl.noaa.gov/write/
4. Oxford English for Electrical and Mechanical Engineering by E.H.Glendinning, and
N.Glendinning, 1995, pp.28,68,83; Publisher: Oxford University Press.
5. Greaney, G.L. 1997; Less is More: Summary Writing and Sentence Structure in the
Advanced ESL Classroom, The Internet TESL Journal, Vol.III, No.9;
http://iteslj.org/Techniques/Greaney-Writing.html
6. A Handbook for Technical Communication by J.K. Neufeld, 1987; Publisher: Prentice
Hall.
7. Principles of Course Design for Language Teaching, by J. Yalden, 1987; Publisher:
Cambridge University Press.
8. A Guide to Writing as an Engineer by David F. Beer and David McMurrey; 2nd / 3rd
edition, Publisher: Wiley.
9. Applied Writing for Technicians by Dale Jungk; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
10. A Pocket Style Manual by Diane Hacker, 2003; Publisher: Bedford/ St. Martin's.
50
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11CSE1102) DATA STRUCTURES
Course Prerequisites: C, Mathematics
Course Objectives:
 Gain a working knowledge of C data structure programming.
 Learn how to write modular, efficient and readable data structure programs.
 Utilize searching and sorting concepts to solve problem.
 Understand and define Trees and Graphs.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Explore and analyze the working of linear data structures like list, stack and
variation of queues in both static and dynamic implementation.
 Relate and demonstrate the application of linear data structures
 Illustrate and implement basic non linear data structures like trees, graphs and
their operations.
 I identify and implement basic and advanced comparison based sorting and
searching techniques
UNIT I
Introduction to data structures.
Abstract data types.
Linear lists
Singly linked list implementation - insertion, deletion, and searching operations on linear list;
Circular linked list implementation; Double linked list implementation - insertion, deletion and
searching operations; Applications of linked lists.
UNIT II
Stacks
Operations; Array and linked representations of stacks; Stack applications - infix to postfix
conversion, postfix expression evaluation, and recursion implementation.
UNIT III
Queues
Operations; Array and linked representations; Circular queue operations; Dequeues;
Applications of queues.
UNIT IV
Trees
Definitions; Binary tree representation; Binary search tree; Binary tree traversals.
51
Graphs
Definitions; Graph representations; Graph traversals.
UNIT V
Searching and sorting
Big O notation;
Searching - linear and binary search methods;
Sorting - selection sort, bubble sort, insertion sort, quick sort, and merge sort.
.
TEXT BOOKS
1. C Programming and Data Structures by B.A.Forouzan and R.F. Gilberg, Third Edition,
Publisher: Cengage Learning.
2. Data Structures Using C (Paperback) by Aaron M. Tenenbaum; Publisher: Pearson
Education.
REFERENCE
1. C and Data structures by P. Padmanabham, Third Edition; Publisher: B.S.
Publications.
2. Data Structures using C and C++ by A.M.Tanenbaum, Y.Langsam, and M.J.
Augenstein; Publisher: Pearson Education/ Prentice Hall
3. C Programming and Data Structures by E. Balagurusamy; Publisher: Tata McGraw
Hill.
4. Computer Programming and Data Structures by P. Dey, M. Ghosh R. Thareja;
Publisher: Oxford University Press.
5. C and Data structures by E V Prasad and N.B. Venkateswarlu; Publisher: S. Chand.
52
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11MED002) ENGINEERING MECHANICS – II
Course Prerequisite: Physics, Mathematics, Engineering Mechanics – I
Course Objectives:
 Understand trusses and their analysis using various methods.
 Understanding principle of virtual work and its applications.
 Understanding kinematics and kinetics parts of machines.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Draw and analyze the free body diagram of a truss acted upon by a system of
forces
 Understand the principle of virtual work and its applications.
 Understand the difference between kinematics and kinetics parts of mechanics
 Apply the principles of work-energy and impulse-momentum for problem solving
UNIT I
Principle of virtual work
Equilibrium of ideal systems; Efficiency of simple machines; Stable and unstable
equilibrium.
UNIT II
Rectilinear translation
Kinematics of rectilinear motion; Principles of dynamics; Differential equation of rectilinear
motion; Motion of a particle acted upon by a constant force; Force as a function of time;
Force proportional to displacement - free vibrations; D’ Alembert’s principle; Momentum and
impulse; Work and energy; Ideal systems; Conservation of Energy; Impact.
UNIT III
Curvilinear translation
Kinematics of curvilinear motion; Differential equations of curvilinear motion; Motion of a
projectile; D’ Alembert’s principle in curvilinear motion; Moment of momentum; Work and
energy in curvilinear motion.
53
UNIT IV
Rotation of a rigid body about a fixed axis
Kinematics of rotation; Equation of motion for a rigid body rotating about a fixed axis;
Rotation under the action of a constant moment; Torsional vibration; The compound
pendulum; General case of moment proportional to angle of rotation; D’ Alembert’s principle
in rotation; Resultant inertia force in rotation; The principle of angular momentum in rotation;
Energy equation for rotating bodies; Gyroscopes.
UNIT V
Plane motion of a rigid body
Kinematics of plane motion; Instantaneous center; Equations of plane motion; D’ Alembert’s
principle in plane motion; The principle of angular momentum in plane motion; Energy
equation for plane motion.
TEXT BOOK
Engineering Mechanics by S.Timoshenko and D.H.Young; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
54
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
2 3 2
(R11MED1104) ENGINEERING GRAPHICS II
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Graphics -I
Course Objectives:
 Understand the concept of section of solids, development of surfaces,
intersection of surfaces.
 Learn the various types of projections- orthographic and pictorial.
 Understand the importance and the principles of perspective projections.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
 Construct the true shape of section and also obtain the development of surfaces
of various solids using AutoCAD.
 Obtain the intersection of surfaces of solids like prism, cylinder and cone, using
AutoCAD.
 Visualize the objects and convert them in different projections – orthographic &
isometric using AutoCAD.
 Convert the given orientation of the object into perspective view.
UNIT I
Sections and sectional views
Sections of right regular solids-prisms, pyramids, cylinders and cones – auxiliary views
Development of surfaces
Development of surfaces of right regular solids prisms, pyramids, cylinders and cones.
UNIT II
Intersection of solids
Intersection of prism Vs prism, cylinder Vs prism, cylinder Vs cylinder, and cylinder Vs cone
UNIT III
Isometric projections
Principles of isometric projections, Isometric scale, isometric views, conventions, isometric
views of lines, planes, simple and compound solids, isometric views of objects having
spherical parts.
55
UNIT IV
Tranformation of projections
Conversion of isometric views to orthographic views-conventions and vice versa.
UNIT V
Perspective projections
Perspective view of points, lines, plane figures and simple solids, vanishing point method
and visual ray method
TEXT BOOK
Elementary Engineering Drawing by N.D.Bhat; Publisher: Charotar Publishing House
REFERENCE
Engineering Drawing by K.L. Narayana and P. Kannaiah; Publisher: Scitech Publications.
Engineering Graphics for degree by K.C. John; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
56
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11MED1201) ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
Course Prerequisites: basic knowledge about different Trades, computer hardware,
Operating System, different trades in mechanical engineering
Course Objectives:
 To study/demonstrate the concepts of computer w.r.t. its hardware, operating
system, assembling and disassembling.
 To conduct the experiments related to production engineering technology.
 To demonstrate the usage of power tools, CNC lathe and machine shop for
different exercises.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
 To identify, assemble, dissemble, install and write commands for a given
configuration of a computer.
 To create components using the techniques of Carpentry, Tin Smithy, Welding
and Fitting etc. listed in trades for exercises.
 To evaluate the jobs prepared in different trades with the models prepared using
various machine tools.
 To evaluate the performance of different Power Tools.
Mechanical Part (12 weeks)
TRADES FOR EXCERCISES
At least two exercises from each trade:
1. Carpentry
2. Tin-Smithy
3. Fitting
4. Welding
5. Electrical Wiring
TRADES FOR DEMONSTRATION and EXPOSURE:
1. Power tools in construction, wood working, electrical engineering and mechanical
engineering.
2. Machine shop.
IT Workshop (4 weeks)
Computer hardware: identification of parts, assembling, and disassembling.
57
Installation of operating system: windows, linux – basic commands.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Workshop Manual by P.Kannaiah and K.L.Narayana; Publisher: Scitech.
2. IT Essentials: PC Hardware and Software Companion Guide, Third Edition by David
Anfinson and Kenneth Quamme; Publisher: CISCO Press/ Pearson Education.
3. PC Hardware and A+ Handbook by Kate J. Chase; Publisher: Microsoft press.
58
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11HAS1203) ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
Course Prerequisites: General English
Course Objectives
 Provide ample practice in LSRW skills.
 Provide practice in grammatical construction, structural patterns, word usage and
improve comprehension abilities in the students.
 Train students to use neutral pronunciation through phonetic sounds, symbols,
stress and intonation.
 Enable students to transfer information from verbal to graphic representation and
vice versa.
 Train students to use effective language for oral presentations, public speaking,
role play and situational dialogue.
Course Outcomes
Students will be able to
 Comprehend spoken and written discourse.
 Speak fluently with neutral pronunciation and exhibit interpersonal skills.
 Write accurately, coherently and lucidly making appropriate use of words
depending on context and present data clearly.
 Introduce oneself to people and be able to speak extempore.
The English Language Communication Skills Lab. aims to provide practice in all the four
skills of LSRW, and provide ample practice in listening and speaking skills.
Syllabus for Lab. Sessions
UNIT I
Multimedia Lab
1. Phonetics
2. Listening comprehension
3. Vocabulary Lesson 1
Oral Communication Skills Lab: Self Introduction; E-mail
UNIT II
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar ---Nouns and Pronouns; The Present Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 2
3. Listening Skills
Oral Communication Skills Lab: Role Play/ Situational Dialogues
59
UNIT III
Multimedia Lab
1. Telephoning Skills
2. Grammar --- Articles; The Past Tense
3. Vocabulary Lesson 3
Oral Communication Skills Lab: JAM/ Short Talk
UNIT IV
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar ---- Concord; The Future Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 4
3. Listening Comprehension
Oral Communication Skills Lab: Information Transfer
UNIT V
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar --- Adjectives, adverbs, conjunctions & Vocabulary -- Lesson 5
Oral Communication Skills Lab: Presentation Skills
MULTIMEDIA LAB REQUIREMENTS
Minimum Requirement
The English Language Lab shall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Lab for 60 students with 60 systems, one master
console,LAN facility and English language software for self- study by learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Lab with movable chairs and audio-visual aids with a P.A
System, & iii) a T. V., a digital stereo –audio and video system and camcorder etc.
System Requirement (Hardware component)
Computer network with LAN with minimum 60 multimedia systems with the following
specifications:
iv) P – IV Processor
a) Speed – 2.8 GHZ
b) RAM – 512 MB Minimum
c) Hard Disk – 80 GB
v) Headphones of High quality
Suggested Software
vi) The software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above should be procured
and used.
 Clarity Pronunciation Power – part II
 Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
 DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill Practice.
 Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
 TOEFL and GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO and BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE by
CLIFFS)
60
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
II Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MTH1103) MATHEMATICS III
(Partial Differential Equations and Integral Transforms)
Course prerequisites: Differentiation and Integration
Course Objectives:
 Derive the Fourier coefficients for the sine and cosine series.
 Apply Separation of Variables to solve elementary examples of linear second
order Partial Differential Equations (heat, Laplace and wave equations).
 Understand the properties of Fourier transforms.
 Apply Cauchy theorem
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Solve the second order linear partial differential equations by using separation of
variables method.
 Solve problems in Fourier sine and cosine series.
 Evaluate simple problems of finite Fourier sine and cosine transforms, Inverse
Fourier sine and cosine transform problems and apply to heat, wave and Laplace
equations.
 Evaluate the line integrals using residue theorem, Cauchy‘s theorem and
Cauchy‘s integral formula
UNIT I
Partial differential equations
Introduction and formation of partial differential equations by elimination of arbitrary
constants and arbitrary functions; Solutions of first order linear (Lagrange’s) equation and
non-linear (standard type) equations; Method of separation of variables for second order
equations; Particular integrals; Monge’s method for solving Rr+ Ss+ Tt = V
INTEGRAL TRANSFROMS
UNIT II
Laplace transform
Laplace transform of standard functions; Inverse transform-first shifting theorem; Dirac’s
delta function; Convolution theorem; Periodic function; Differentiation and integration of
transforms; Application of Laplace transforms to ordinary differential equations.
61
UNIT III
Fourier series
Determination of Fourier coefficients; Fourier series - even and odd functions; Fourier
series in an arbitrary interval; Even and odd periodic continuation; Half range Fourier series
sine and cosine expansions; Fourier integral theorem (only statement); Fourier sine and
cosine integrals; Fourier transforms; Fourier sine and cosine transforms; Properties; Inverse
transforms-finite Fourier transforms.
UNIT IV
Application of transform (Laplace and Fourier)
Solutions of wave equation, heat equation and Laplace equation and their use in problems
of vibrating string; One dimensional unsteady heat flow; Two dimensional steady heat flow.
UNIT V
Z-Transform
Z-transform; Inverse z-transform; Properties, initial, and final value theorems; Convolution
theorem; Difference equations; Solutions of difference equations using z-transform.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K Jain and S.R.K Iyengar, 3rd edition;
Publisher: Narosa Publications, 2011.
2. Elements of Partial Differential Equations by Ian Naismith Sneddon; Publisher: Dover
Publications.
REFERENCE
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher: John
Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher:
Cengage Learning.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Dennis G. Zill and Warren S. Wright; 4th
edition; Publisher: Jones and Bartlett Learning.
62
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
II Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11MED1106) MECHANICS OF SOLIDS I
Course prerequisites: Maths, Physics and Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives:
 Understand the stress-strain diagrams for various materials
 Evaluate the shear force and bending moment diagrams for different beams
 Understand the stresses developed in beams.
 Analyze the stress and strain using Mohr’s circle
Learning Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 how basic stress strain equations with appropriate assumptions.
 Interpret model and analyze solid mechanics problems on bars, beams and
shafts..
 Apply the concepts of principal stresses in real life design issues
 Analyze and develop beams, shafts for various applications
UNIT I
Tension, compression, and shear
Introduction; Normal Stress and Strain; Stress-strain diagrams; Elasticity and plasticity;
Linear elasticity and Hooke’s law; Allowable stress and allowable loads.
Axially loaded members
Introduction; Deflections of axially loaded members; Displacement diagrams; Statically
indeterminate structures (flexibility method and stiffness method); Temperature and
prestrain effects; Stresses on inclined sections; Strain energy; Dynamic loading; Overview
of nonlinear behavior.
UNIT II
Torsion
Introduction; Torsion of circular bars; Nonuniform torsion; Pure shear; Relationship between
moduli of elasticity E and G; Transmission of power by circular shafts; Statically
indeterminate torsional members; Strain energy in pure shear and torsion.
Shear force and bending moment diagrams
Types of beams; Types of loading; Shear force and bending moment; Relationship between
load, shear force and bending moment; Shear force and bending moment diagrams.
63
UNIT III
Area moment of inertia of composite sections.
Stresses in beams
Introduction; Normal strains in beams; Normal stresses in beams; Cross-sectional shapes of
beams; Shear stresses in rectangular beams; Shear stress in webs of beams with flanges;
Shear stress in circular beams (solid and hollow sections); Built-up beams; Overview of
stresses in nonprismatic beams.
UNIT IV
Analysis of stress and strain
Introduction; Plane stress; Principal stresses and maximum shear stresses; Mohr’s circle for
plane stress; Hooke’s law for plane stress; Spherical and cylindrical pressure vessels
(biaxial stress; Hoop and longitudinal stresses); Combined loadings (plane stress); Principal
stresses in beams; Triaxial stress; Volumetric strain; Three dimensional stress; Overview of
plane strain.
UNIT V
Deflections of beams
Introduction; Differential equations of the deflection curve; Deflections by integration of the
bending moment equation; Deflections by integration of the shear-force and load equations;
Macaulay’s method; Moment area method; Method of superposition; Nonprismatic beams;
Strain energy in bending; Overview of discontinuity functions.
TEXT BOOK
Mechanics of Materials (SI units) by J.M.Gere and S.P.Timoshenko; Publisher: CBS
Publishers.
REFERENCE
Engineering Mechanics of Solids by Popov; Publisher: Pearson Education.
Strength of Materials Schaum’s Series.
64
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
II Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11MED 1107) THERMODYNAMICS
Course prerequisites: Physics
Course Objectives:
 To understand the basic concepts of thermodynamics and Thermodynamic Laws.
 To apply the thermodynamic laws and principles in the fields of energy
technology.
 To understand real world thermal engineering applications.
 To understand the working principle and analysis of gas power cycles
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 To apply the basic concepts of thermodynamics and Thermodynamic Laws for
various thermodynamic systems
 To Evaluate the properties of pure substance and to analyse the concept of
irreversibility and availability.
 To apply the basic concept of power cycles and refrigeration systems for Heat
Engines and Refrigerators
 Evaluate the behaviour of ideal gas mixtures and Thermodynamic properties of
the given mixture of gases.
UNIT I
Introduction
Various applications of thermodynamics.
Control volumes and units (concepts and definitions)
A thermodynamic system and the control volume; Macroscopic versus microscopic point of
view; Properties and state of a substance; Processes and cycles, units for mass, length,
time, and force; Energy; Specific volume and density; Pressure; Equality of temperature;
The Zeroth law of thermodynamics; Temperature scales; Engineering applications.
Properties of a pure substance
The pure substance; Vapor- liquid- solid- phase equilibrium in a pure substance;
Independent properties of a pure substance; Tables of thermodynamic properties;
Thermodynamic surfaces; The P-V-T behavior of low- and moderate- density gases; The
compressibility factor; Equations of state; Introduction to computerized tables; Engineering
applications.
65
Work and heat
Definition of work; Units for work; Work done at the moving boundary of a simple
compressible system; Other systems that involve work; Remarks regarding work; Definition
of heat; Heat transfer modes; Comparison of heat and work; Engineering applications.
UNIT II
Energy equation for a control mass (The first law of thermodynamics)
The first law of thermodynamics for a control mass undergoing a cycle; The first law of
thermodynamics for a change in state of a control mass; Internal energy-a thermodynamic
property; Problem analysis and solution technique; The thermodynamic property enthalpy;
The constant-volume and constant-pressure specific heats; The internal energy, enthalpy,
and specific heat of ideal gases; The first law as a rate equation; Conversion of mass;
Engineering applications.
Energy equation for a control volume (First law analysis for a control volume)
Conversion of mass and the control volume; The first law of thermodynamics for a control
volume; The steady-state process; Examples of steady-state processes; Engineering
applications.
UNIT III
The (classical) second law of thermodynamics
Heat engines and refrigerators; The second law of thermodynamics; The reversible process;
Factors that render processes irreversible; The Carnot cycle; Two propositions regarding
the efficiency of a Carnot cycle; The thermodynamic temperature scale; The ideal-gas
temperature scale; Ideal versus real machines; Engineering applications.
Entropy for a control mass
The inequality of Clausius; Entropy – a property of a system; The entropy of a pure
substance; Entropy of a pure substance, Entropy change in reversible processes; The
thermodnamic property relation; Entropy change of an ideal gas; The reversible polytropic
process for an ideal gas; Entropy change of a control mass during an irreversible process;
Entropy generation; Principle of the increase of entropy; Entropy as ya rate equation; Some
general comments about entropy and chaos.
Entropy equation for a control volume (Second law analysis for a control volume)
The second law of thermodynamics for a control volume; The stead–state process; The
steady-state single flow process; Principle of the increase of entropy; Engineering
applications; Efficiency.
66
UNIT IV
Irreversibility and Availability
Available energy; Reversible work, and irreversibility; Availability and second-law efficiency;
Energy balance equation; Engineering applications.
Power and refrigeration systems-with phase change (Cycles)
Introduction to power systems; The Rankine cycle; Effect of pressure and temperature on
the Rankine cycle; Introduction to refrigeration systems; The vapour-compression
refrigeration cycle.
Power and refrigeration systems-gaseous working fluids
Air-standard power cycles; The Brayton cycle; The simple gas-turbine cycle with a
regenerator; The air-standard cycle for jet propulsion; Reciprocating engine power cycles;
The Otto cycle; The diesel cycle; The Stirling cycle; The Atkinson and Miller cycles;
Combined cycle power and refrigeration systems.
UNIT V
(Ideal) Gas mixtures
General consideration and mixtures of ideal gases; A simplified model of a mixture involving
gases and a vapor; The first law applied to gas-vapor mixtures; The adiabatic saturation
process; Engineering applications: Wet-bulb and dry- bulb temperatures and overview of
psychrometric chart.
Thermodynamic (property) relations
The Clapeyron equation; Mathematical relations for a homogeneous phase; The Maxwell
relations; Thermodynamic relations involving enthalpy, internal energy, and entropy; Volume
expansivity, and isothermal and adiabatic compressibility; Real gas behavior and equations
of state; The generalized chart for changes of enthalpy at constant temperature; The
generalized chart for changes of entropy at constant temperature; The property relation for
mixtures; Pseudopure substance models for real-gas mixtures; Tables of thermodynamic
properties.
TEXT BOOK
Fundamentals of Thermodynamics by C. Borgnakke and R.E. Sonntag; Publisher: John
Wiley.
REFERENCE
1. Fundamentals of Thermodynamics by C. Borgnakke, R.E. Sonntag, and G.J. Van
Wylen; Publisher: John Wiley.
2. Engineering Thermodynamics by P.K.Nag.
3. Thermodynamics – An engineering approach by Yunus Cengel and Boles; Publisher:
TMH.
67
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
II Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11MED1108) METALLURGY AND MATERIAL SCIENCE
Course prerequisites: Maths, Physics and Chemistry
Course Objectives:
 Understand the microstructures of different types of metal and alloys –cast iron,
steels, non ferrous metal and alloys.
 Understand the heat treatment principles-annealing, normalizing and hardening.
 Understand the different types of tools.
 Understand the different types of Alloy steels
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Analyze different types of metals and alloys.
 Evaluate a heat treatment process to change the properties-hardness, ductility,
etc.
 Analyze the failure of metals and alloys.
 Apply the knowledge to use the right materials for right components
UNIT I
Metal structure and crystallization
Introduction - atom binding, ionic bond, covalent bond, metallic bond, and Vander Waals
forces;
Overview of metal structure and crystallization.
Constitution of alloys
Introduction; Classification of alloys or compounds; Pure metal; Intermediate alloy phase or
compound - intermetallic compounds or valency compounds, interstitial compounds, and
electron compounds; Solid solutions; Substitutional solid solution - factors that control the
range of solubility in alloy system; Interstitial solid solutions.
UNIT II
Phase diagrams
Introduction; Coordinates of phase diagrams; Experimental methods - construction of
equilibrium diagrams by thermal analysis, metallographic methods, and X-ray diffraction;
Type-I-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid and solid states; Chemical composition of
phases; relative amounts of each phase; Equilibrium cooling of a solid solution alloy;
Diffusion; Nonequilibrium cooling; Homogenization; Properties of solid-solution alloys;
68
Variation of Type I; Type II-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid state and completely
insoluble in the solid state; Type III-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid state but
only partly soluble in the solid state; Properties of eutectic alloy systems; Age hardening –
solution treatment, and aging process; Type IV-The congruent-melting intermediate phase;
Type V-The peritectic reaction; Type VI-Two liquids partly soluble in the liquid state: the
monotectic reaction; Type VII-two metals insoluble in the liquid and solid states; Interrelation
of basic types;
Transformations in the solid state - allotropy, order-disorder transformation, the eutectoid
reaction, the peritectoid reaction, and complex diagrams;
Study of important binary phase diagrams of Cu-Ni, Al-Si,Sb-Pb,Pt-Ag,Bi-Cd,Cu-Pb,Cu-
Sn,and Fe-Fe3C.
UNIT III
The heat treatment of steel
Introduction; Full Annealing; Spheroidizing; Stress-relief annealing; Process annealing;
Normalizing; Hardening; The isothermal transformation diagram; Transformation to Pearlite
and Bainite; Cooling curves and I-T Diagram; Transformation on continuous cooling;
Position of the I-T curves; Hardening or austenitizing temperature; Homogeneity of
austenite; Mechanism of heat removal during quenching - vapor-blanket cooling state (stage
A), vapor transport cooling stage (stage B), Liquid cooling stage (stage C); Quenching
medium; Temperature of quenching medium; Surface condition - methods to minimize the
formation of scale - copper plating, protective atmosphere, liquid-salt pots, and cast-iron
chips; Size and Mass; Hardenability; Use of Hardenability data; Tempering; Austempering;
Surface heat treatment or case hardening; Carburizing; Heat treatment after carburizing;
Cyaniding and Carbonitriding; Nitriding; Flame hardening; Induction Hardening; Residual
Stresses; Hardenable carbon steels.
UNIT IV
Alloy steels
Introduction; Purpose of alloying; Effect of alloying elements upon Ferrite; Effect of alloying
elements upon carbide; Influence of alloying elements on the iron-iron carbide diagram;
Effect of alloying elements in tampering; Classification of steels - nickel steel, chromium
steel, nickel-chromium steels, manganese steels, molybdinum steels, tungsten steels,
venedium steels, silicon steels, stainless steels, martensitic stainless steels, ferritic stainless
steels, austenitic stainless steels, precipitation-hardening stainless steels, maraging steels,
and ausforming.
69
Tool steels
Classification of tool steels; Selection of tool steels; Comparative properties; Non-deforming
properties; Depth of hardening; Toughness; Wear resistance; Red-hardness; Machinability;
Resistance to decarburization; Brand names; Water-hardening tool steels (Group W); Shock
resisting tool steels (Group S); Cold-work tool steels; Hot-work tool steels (Group H); High
speed tool steels; Mold Steels (Group P); Special purpose tool steels; Heat treatment of tool
steels; Overview of tool failures;
Special cutting materials – satellites, cemented carbides, and ceramic tools.
UNIT V
Cast iron
Introduction; Types of cast iron; White cast iron; Malleable cast iron; Pearlitic malleable iron;
Gray cast iron; Silicon in cast iron; Sulfur in cast iron; Manganese in cast iron; Phosphorus
in cast iron; Heat treatment of grey iron, Size and distribution of graphite flakes; Mechanical
properties and applications of grey cast iron; Chilled cast iron; Nodular cast iron; Alloy cast
irons.
Non-ferrous metals and alloys
Introduction; Copper and its alloys - Copper, temper designation of copper and copper
alloys, and copper alloys; Aluminum and its alloys - Aluminum, Alloy designation system,
and temper designation; Titanium and Titanium alloys.
Overview of solidification of metals
TEXT BOOK
Introduction to Physical Metallurgy by Sidney H. Avner; Publisher: McGrawHill.
REFERENCE
1. Essentials of Materials Science and Engineering by Donald R. Askeland and
Thomson.
2. Materials Science and Engineering by William and Collister.
3. Elements of Materials Science by V.Raghavan
70
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
II Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11EEE1132) BASIC ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
Course prerequisites: Physics, Electrical Engineering
Course Objectives:
 To get awareness of using mechanical energy for electrical energy generation.
 To understand the working basic operation of circuits used for automobile control.
 To know about working of different electrical machines used for propulsion of
vehicles.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret data.
 Design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic
constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and
safety, manufacturability, and sustainability.
 Function on multi-disciplinary teams.
 Identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems
UNIT I
Introduction to Electrical Circuits
Basic definitions; Types of elements; Types of sources; Ohm’s law; Kirchhoff’s laws;
Resistive networks; Source transformation; Series parallel circuits; Star delta and delta star
transformation; Inductive networks; Capacitive networks;
Superposition; Thevenin’s; Norton’s and maximum power transfer theorems.
UNIT II
Singel Phase AC circuits
Principle of AC voltages; Waveforms and basic definitions; Root mean square and average
values of alternating current and voltage; Form factor and peak factor; Phasor
representation of alternating quantities; The J operator and phasor algebra; Analysis of AC
circuits with single basic network element; Single phase series circuits; Parallel Circuits;
Series Resonance
UNIT III
D.C Machines
D.C.Generator
Principle; Construction; EMF Equation; Types; Self excitation; Magentization characteristics;
71
D.C.Motor
Principle; Mechanical power developed; Torque equation; Speed control of DC shunt
motor; Efficiency;
Swinburne’s Test.
UNIT IV
Transformers and Three Phase Induction Motors
Transformer
Principle; Construction; Types-EMF Equation; Transformer on NoLoad, and Load; Phasor
Diagrams; OC and SC Tests; Efficiency.
3-Phase Induction Motor
Principle; Types; Slip-Rotor Frequency; Torque equation; Torque-Slip characteristics.
UNIT V
Synchronous Machines & Measuring Instruments
Synchronous Generator
Principle; Types; EMF Equation; Voltage regulation using synchronous impedance method;
Synchronous motor principle;
Basic principles of indicating instruments; Permanent magnet moving coil and moving iron
instruments.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Basic Electrical Engineering by M.S. Naidu and S. Kamakshiah; Publisher: TMH.
2. Theory and Problems of Basic Electrical Engineering by D.P. Kothari & J. Nagrath;
Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
REFERENCES
1. Electrical Technology by Harry Cotton; Publisher: Pitman.
2. Electrical and Electronic Technology by Edwards Hughes, Ian McKenzie Smith, John
Hiley, and Keith Brown; Publisher: Pearson Education.
3. A Text Book of Electrical Technology by B.L. Theraja and A.K. Theraja Volume I and II;
Publisher: S Chand.
4. Essentials of Electrical and Computer Engineering by David V. Kerns and J. David
Irwin; Publisher: Pearson Education.
72
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
II Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
0 6 4
(R11MED1109) MACHINE DRAWING
Course prerequisites: Engineering Graphics
Course Objectives:
 Understand the Principles of Machine Drawing Conventions.
 Familiarize the Machine Elements like Screw Threads, Nuts, Bolts, Keys and
riveted joins.
 Impart the knowledge on Machine Elements and simple parts like Shaft
couplings, Journal, pivot, and collar bearings.
 Understand the different views of Part Drawings and based on that, draw the
Assembled Parts of Engine & Machine parts
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Apply the Knowledge of Machine Drawing Conventions.
 Apply the knowledge of AutoCAD Software and draw the Machine Elements like
Screw Threads, Nuts, Bolts, Keys and riveted joins.
 Apply the knowledge of AutoCAD Software and draw the Machine Elements and
simple parts like Shaft couplings, Journal, pivot, and collar bearings.
 Design all the parts & assemble them in AutoCAD with section views.
Machine drawing conventions
Need for drawing conventions – introduction to IS conventions
a) Conventional representation of materials, common machine elements and parts such
as screws, nuts, bolts, keys, gears, webs, and ribs.
b) Types of sections – selection of section planes, and drawing of sections and auxiliary
sectional views. Parts not usually sectioned.
c) Methods of dimensioning, general rules for sizes, and placement of dimensions for
holes, centers, and curved and tapered features.
d) Title boxes, their size, location, and other details - common abbreviations and their
liberal usage
e) Types of drawings – working drawings for machine parts.
f) Production drawings
73
I. Drawing of machine elements and simple parts
Selection of orthogonal views, and additional views for the following machine elements and
parts with every drawing proportion.
a) Popular forms of screw threads, bolts, nuts, stud bolts.
b) Keys, cottered joints, and knuckle joint.
c) Riveted joints for plates.
d) Shaft coupling and spigot joint.
e) Journal, pivot, and collar bearings.
II. Part and assembly drawings
Assembly drawings for the following, using conventions and easy drawing proportions:
a) Engine parts – stuffing boxes, eccentrics, I.C. engine connecting rod, and piston
assembly.
b) Other parts - screws jacks, machine vices, and tailstock.
c) Valves - steam stop valve.
III. Production drawings
a) Overview of limits, fits, tolerances, geometrical accuracy, surface roughness symbols,
welding symbols etc.
b) Production drawings of piston assembly and tailstock.
NOTE
1. To adopt first angle of projection.
2. The student should be able to provide working drawings of actual parts.
TEXT BOOK
Machine Drawing by K.L. Narayana, P. Kannaiah and K. Venkata Reddy; Publisher: New
Age/ Publishers.
REFERENCE
Machine Drawing by Siddheswar, Kannaiah and Sastry.
Machine Drawing by N.D.Bhat.
74
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
II Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11MED1203) METALLURGY AND MECHANICS OF SOLIDS LAB
Course prerequisites: Mechanics of solids, Engineering Mechanics, Metallurgy and
Material Science
Course Objectives:
 Understand the need of proper simplification for different materials and various
tests to be conducted on engineering materials.
 Understand the significance microstructure of different materials under
microscopic testing and the significance of tests on evaluating the corresponding
mechanical properties.
 Understand the changes in microstructures after different treatments and the
importance of technical parameters used during tests.
 Understand the phase related changes after the subsequent treatment process
and the experimental parameters used during tests.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Evaluate the properties of given materials for the study of micro structure. &
applying the theoretical concepts by conducting the tests on different materials.
 Analyze the microstructure of any given material and predict properties&: Evaluate
the result of test and comment on the mechanical properties of materials
 Analyze the obtained structure through metallurgical microscope by doing
Polishing operations & decide a material and an appropriate test suitable for given
application.
 Create different microstructures by doing appropriate heat treatment for given
material by checking its microstructure Analyze the significance of the tests in
different fields of engineering.
Metallurgy lab. (Six experiments)
1. Preparation and study of the microstructure of pure metals like Iron, Cu and Al.
2. Preparation and study of the microstructure of mild steels, low carbon steels, and high
carbon steels.
3. Study of the microstructures of cast irons.
4. Study of the microstructures of non-ferrous alloys.
5. Study of the microstructures of heat treated steels.
6. Hardeneability of steels by Jominy end quench test.
75
7. To find out the hardness of various treated and untreated steels.
Mechanics of solids lab. (Six experiments)
1. Direct tension test
2. Bending tests:
a) Simple supported beam
b) Cantilever beam
3. Torsion test
4. Hardness test
a) Brinell hardness test
b) Rockwell hardness test
5. Test on springs
6. Compression test on a cube
7. Impact test
8. Punch shear test
76
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
II Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11EEE1203) ELECTRICAL TECHNOLOGY AND ELECTRIC CIRCUITS LAB
Course prerequisites: Maths, Physics and Basic Electrical Engineering
Course Objectives:
 Build circuits and take measurements of circuit variables using tools such as
oscilloscopes, multimeters, and signal generators.
 Understand the basic electrical engineering principles and abstractions on which
the design of electronic systems is based
 Understand the relationship between the mathematical representation of circuit
behavior and corresponding real-life effects.
 Appreciate the practical significance of the systems developed in the course
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Apply Kirchhoff‘s voltage and current laws to the analysis of electric circuits.
 Analyze first and second order AC and DC circuits for steady-state and transient
response in the time domain and frequency domain.
 Derive relations for and calculate the gain and input impedance of a given
operational amplifier circuit for both DC and frequency domain AC circuits using
an ideal operational amplifier model.
PART – A (six experiments)
1. Verification of Kirchhoff’s laws.
2. Series Resonance-Timing, Resonant Frequency, Bandwidth and Q factor
determination for RLC network
3. Verification of superposition theorem.
4. Verification of maximum power transfer theorem.
5. Experimental verification of Thevenin’s theorem.
6. Experimental verification of Norton’s theorem.
7. Design of electric circuits for practical applications
8. Elementary design specifications (ratings - power, voltage, and current; guage
calculations; number of turns) for machines
PART – B (six experiments)
9. Magnetization characteristics of D.C. shunt generator. Determination of critical
field resistance and critical speed.
10. Swinburne’s test on DC shunt machine (predetermination of efficiency of a given
DC shunt machine working as motor and generator).
11. Speed Control of DC Shunt Motor
77
12. OC & SC tests on a single-phase transformer (Determination of equivalent circuit
parameters, predetermination of efficiency and regulation at given power factors).
13. Brake test on 3-phase induction motor. Determination of performance
characteristics.
14. Load test on a Single Phase Transformer
15. Regulation of three phase alternator by synchronous impedance method.
78
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
II Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11MED1110) MECHANICS OF SOLIDS II
Course prerequisites: Maths, Physics and Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives:
 Analyze the statically indeterminate beams using superposition method
 Evaluate the unsymmetric bending beams with generalized theory and energy
methods to find the deflections in the beams
 Understand the equations of inelastic bending, plastic bending, plastic hinges etc.
 Analyze the columns with pinned ends, with other support conditions etc.,
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Quote procedures for designing statically determinate and indeterminate
structures.
 Interpret model and analyze symmetric and unsymmetrical bending and torsion
problems.
 Apply the concepts of principal stresses in real life design issues
 Analyze and develop procedures for solving real life problems using strain energy
methods.
UNIT I
Statically indeterminate beams
Statically indeterminate beams; Analysis by differential equations of the deflection curve;
Moment-area method; Method of superposition (flexibility method); Continuous beams;
Temperature effects; Horizontal displacements at the ends of a beam.
UNIT II
Unsymmetric bending
Introduction; Doubly symmetric beams with skew loads; Pure bending of unsymmetric
beams; Generalized theory of pure bending; Bending of beams by lateral loads; Shear
centre; Shear stresses in beams of thin-walled open cross sections; Shear centers of thin-
walled open sections; General theory for shear stresses.
UNIT III
Inelastic bending
Introduction; Equations of inelastic bending; Plastic bending; Plastic hinges; Plastic analysis
of beams; Deflections; Inelastic bending; Residual stresses.
79
UNIT IV
Columns
Buckling and stability; Columns with pinned ends; Columns with other support conditions;
Columns with eccentric axial loads; Secant formula; Imperfections in columns; Elastic and
inelastic column behavior; Inelastic buckling; Column design formulas.
UNIT V
Energy methods
Introduction; Principal of virtual work; Unit-load method for calculating displacements;
Reciprocal theorems; Strain-energy and complementary energy; Strain-energy methods;
Complementary energy methods; Castigliano’s second theorem; Shear deflections of
beams.
TEXT BOOK
Mechanics of Materials by J.M.Gere and S.Timoshenko; Publisher: CBS
REFERENCE
Engineering Mechanics of Solids by E.P.Popov; Publisher: Pearson Education.
Strength of Materials Schaum’s Series.
80
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
II Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11MED1111) KINEMATICS OF MACHINERY
Course prerequisites: Geometrical Construction, Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives:
 Develop an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering
 Understand mechanisms for motion transmission.
 Study of displacements, velocities, accelerations of mechanical linkages.
 Design engineering applications involving in selection, sizing of mechanism to
accomplish motion objectives.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Develop the ability to analyze and understand the dynamic (position, velocity,
acceleration, force and torque) characteristics of mechanisms such as linkages
and cams.
 Develop the ability to systematically design and optimize mechanisms to perform a
specified task.
 Increase the ability of students to effectively present written, oral, and graphical
solutions to design problems.
 Increase the ability of students to work cooperatively on teams in the development
of mechanism designs.
UNIT I
About mechanisms
Introduction; introduction to analysis and synthesis; The science of mechanics; Terminology,
definitions, and assumptions; Introduction to planar, spherical, and spatial mechanisms;
Mobility; Classification of mechanisms; Kinematic inversion; Grashof’s law; Mechanical
advantage.
Position and displacement
Locus of a moving point; Position of a point; Position difference between two points;
Apparent position of a point; Absolute position of a point; Graphic position analysis;
Algebraic position analysis; Complex-algebra solutions of planar vector equations; Overview
of Complex polar algebra; Position analysis techniques.
81
UNIT II
Velocity
Definition of velocity, Rotation of a rigid body; Velocity difference between points of a rigid
body; Graphic methods-velocity polygons; Apparent velocity of a point in a moving
coordinate system; Apparent angular velocity; Direct contact and rolling contact; Systematic
strategy for velocity analysis; Analytic methods; Overview of complex-algebra methods; The
method of kinematic coefficients; The vector method; Instantaneous center of velocity; The
aronhold-kennedy theorem of three centers; Locating instant centers of velocity; Velocity
analysis using instant centers; Mechanical advantage; Centrodes.
Acceleration
Definition of acceleration; Angular acceleration; Acceleration difference between points of a
rigid body; Acceleration polygons; Apparent angular acceleration; Direct contact and rolling
contact; Systematic strategy for acceleration analysis; Analytic methods; Overview of
Complex algebra methods; Overview of the method of kinematic coefficients.
DESIGN OF MECHANISMS
UNIT III
Cam design
Introduction; Classification of cams and followers; Displacement diagrams; Graphical layout
of cam profiles; Kinematic coefficients of the follower motion; Overview of high speed cams;
Standard cam motions; matching derivatives of the displacement diagrams; Plate cam with
reciprocating flat-face follower; Plate cam with reciprocating roller follower.
UNIT IV
Spur gears
Terminology and definitions; Fundamental law of toothed gearing; Involute properties;
Interchangeable gears; AGMA standards; Fundamentals of gear tooth action; The
manufacture of gear teeth; Interference and undercutting; Contact ratio, Varying the center
distance; Involutometry; Nonstandard gear teeth.
Helical gears
Parallel-axis helical gears; Helical-gear-tooth relations; Herringbone gears;
Bevel gears
Straight-tooth bevel gears.
Overview of worm gears.
82
UNIT V
Mechanism trains
Parallel-axis gear trains and definitions; Examples of gear trains; Determining tooth
numbers; Epicyclic gear trains; Bevel-gear epicyclic trains; Analysis of planetary trains by
formula; Tabular analysis of planetary gear trains; Overview of adders and differentials; All-
wheel drive train.
TEXT BOOK
Theory of Machines and Mechanisms by J.J. Uicker Jr., G.R. Pennock, and J.E.Shigley;
Publisher: McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
1. Mechanism Design (Vol 1) by A.G.Erdman and G.N.Sandor; Publisher: Prentice Hall of
India.
2. Theory of Machines by Thomas Bevan; Publisher: CBS
3. Design of Machinery by R.L.Norton; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
83
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
II Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MED1112) FLUID MECHANICS AND TURBOMACHINERY
Course prerequisites: Maths, Physics and Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives:
 Understand the properties of fluids, principles of buoyancy, flow, force and head
calculations.
 Understand boundary layer principles applied to aerofoils.
 Understand various energy conversations that take place in a turbo machines.
 Understand the principles of turbo machines. .
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 To apply fundamental equations of fluid mechanics for turbines and pumps
 Model and analyze fluid flow problems in mechanical engineering.
 To create a model of fluid flow equipments.
 Evaluate the experimental results with theoretical concepts.
UNIT I
Fluid properties
Definitions: Definition of a fluid, force, mass, length, and time units; Viscosity; Continuum;
Density, specific volume, unit gravity force, relative density, pressure, and perfect gas; Bulk
modulus of elasticity; Vapor pressure; Surface tension.
Fluid statics
Pressure at a point; Basic equation of fluid statics; Units and scales of pressure
measurement; Manometers; Forces on plane areas; Force components on curved surfaces;
Buoyant force; Stability of floating and submerged bodies; Relative equilibrium.
Fluid-flow concepts and basic equations
Flow characteristics – definitions; the concepts of system and control volume; Application of
the control volume to continuity, energy and momentum; Continuity equation; Euler’s
equation of motion along a streamline; The Bernoulli equation.
UNIT II
Fluid-flow concepts and basic equations (contd)
The steady state energy equation; Application of the energy equation to steady fluid flow
situations; Applications of the linear momentum equation; The moment-of-momentum
equation.
84
Dimensional analysis and dynamic similitude
Dimensional homogeneity and dimensionless ratios; Dimensions and units; The π-theorem;
Discussion of dimensionless parameters; Similitude – model studies.
Viscous effects – fluid resistance
Laminar, incompressible, steady flow between parallel plates; Laminar flow through circular
tubes and circular annuli; the Reynolds number; Prandtl mixing length - velocity distribution
in turbulent flow; Transport phenomina; Boundary-layer concepts; Drag on immersed
bodies.
UNIT III
Fluid measurement
Pressure measurement; Velocity measurement; positive-displacement meters; Orifices;
Venturimeter, nozzle, and other rate devices; Overview of measurement of turbulence;
Measurement of viscosity.
UNIT IV
Turbo machinery
Introduction to turbomachinery; Homologous units; Specific speed; Elementary cascade
theory; Theory of turbomachines.
UNIT IV
Turbo machinery
Reaction turbines; Pumps and blowers; Impulse turbines; Cavitation.
UNIT V
Viscous effects – fluid resistance (Contd)
Resistance to turbulent flow in open and closed conduits; Overview of steady uniform flow in
open channels; Overview of Steady incompressible flow through simple pipe systems
Steady closed conduit flow
Exponential pipe friction formulas; Hydraulic and energy grade lines; The siphon; Pipes in
series; Pipes in parallel; Branching pipes; Networks of pipes.
Introduction to compressible flow, perfect gas relationships, speed of sound wave,
Mach number
85
TEXT BOOK
1. Fluid Mechanics (First SI Metric Edition) by V.L. Streeter and E.B. Wylie, Publisher:
McGraw Hill.
2. Fluid Mechanics (Third edition; International Student Edition) by V.L. Streeter;
Publisher: McGraw Hill and Kogakusha.
REFERENCE
1. Schaum’s outline of Fluid Mechanics; Publisher: TMH.
2. Fluid Mechanics by F.M.White; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
3. Fluid Mechanics and Fluid Power Engineering by D.S. Kumar
4. Fundamentals of Compressible Flow by S.M.Yahya; Publisher: New Age International.
86
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
II Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11MED1113) APPLIED THERMODYNAMICS
Course prerequisites: Physics
Course Objectives:
 To apply the basic concept of Rankine cycles for External combustion engines
and evaluate the efficiency with modifications in the cycle and will also be able to
design the nozzle and its thermodynamic properties
 To design the rotodynamic machinery for steam and gas turbines.
 To evaluate the performance characteristics of reciprocating internal combustion
engine.
 To Measure psychometric properties.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Develop the ability to analyze and understand the dynamic (position, velocity,
acceleration, force and torque) characteristics of mechanisms such as linkages
and cams.
 Develop the ability to systematically design and optimize mechanisms to perform a
specified task
 Increase the ability of students to effectively present written, oral, and graphical
solutions to design problems.
 Increase the ability of students to work cooperatively on teams in the development
of mechanism designs.
UNIT I
Steam cycles
Rankine cycle; Rankine cycle with superheat; The enthalpy-entropy chart; The reheat cycle;
The regenerative cycle; Further considerations of plant efficiency; Steam for heating and
process use.
Gas turbine cycles
The practical gas turbine cycle; Modifications to the basic cycle; Additional factors.
UNIT II
Nozzles and jet propulsion
Nozzle shape; Critical pressure ratio; Maximum mass flow; Nozzles off design pressure
ratio, Nozzle efficiency; The steam nozzle; Stagnation conditions; Jet propulsion; The
turbojet; The turboprop.
87
Positive displacement machines
Reciprocating compressors; Reciprocating compressors including clearance; Multi-stage
compression; Steady-flow analysis; Rotary machines; Vacuum pumps; Air motors.
UNIT III
Rotodynamic machinery
Rotodynamic machines for steam and gas turbine plant; The impulse steam turbine;
Pressure and velocity compounded impulse steam turbines; Axial-flow reaction turbines;
Losses in turbines; Axial-flow compressors; Overall efficiency, stage efficiency, and reheat
factor; Polytropic efficiency; Centrifugal compressors; Radial-flow turbines.
UNIT IV
Reciprocating internal-combustion engines
Four-stroke cycle; Two-stroke cycle; Other types of engine; Criteria of performance; Engine
output and efficiency; Performance characteristics; Factors influencing performance; Real
cycles and the air standard cycles; Properties of fuels for IC engines.
UNIT V
Reciprocating internal-combustion engines (contd)
Fuel systems; Measurement of air and fuel flow rates; Supercharging; Engine emissions
and legal requirements; Alternative forms of IC engines; Developments in IC engines.
Overview of refrigeration and heat pumps
Psychrometry and air conditioning
Psychrometric mixtures; Specific humidity, relative humidity and percentage saturation;
Specific enthalpy; Specific heat capacity; Specific volume of moist air; Overview of air-
conditioning systems.
TEXT BOOK
Applied Thermodynamics by T.D.Eastop and A.McConkey; Publisher: Addison Wesley..
REFERENCE
1. Basic and Applied Thermodynamics by P.K.Nag; Publisher: TMH.
2. Engineering Fundamentals of IC Engine by Pulkrabek; Publisher: Perason/PHI.
3. Internal Combustion Engine Fundamentals by Heywood; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
4. I.C.Engines by V.Ganeshan; Publisher: TMH.
88
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
II Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11MED1114) PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY
Course prerequisites: Material science, Manufacturing Science.
Course Objectives:
 Understand metal joining techniques.
 Understand the principles involved in ferrous and non-ferrous casting design
 Understand cold and hot working of metals and processing of non-metals like
plastics.
 Understand the joining processes with solid state welding, cold weklding etc.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Design castings taking into considerations of different moulds and their
preparations.
 Design different welded joints applying it to different welding processes and able to
conduct different types of tests on weldments.
 Produce various components from cutting and shaping operations.
 Design concepts of various press tools.
UNIT I
Materials in manufacturing
Major classes of engineering materials - metals, ceramics, plastics, composite structures,
and joining.
Metal casting
Structure and properties of castings - solidification of melts, and macro segregation;
Casting properties - viscosity, surface effects, and fluidity;
Casting alloys - ferrous materials, and non ferrous materials;
Melting and pouring: melting, pouring, and quality assurance;
Casting processes – classification, ingot casting, casting of shapes, expendable-mold and
expendable-pattern casting, permanent-mold casting, and centrifugal casting;
Finishing processes - cleaning and finishing, and changing properties after casting;
Quality assurance – inspection, and casting defects;
Process capabilities and design aspects - process capabilities, and part design.
89
UNIT II
Plastic deformation of metals
Material properties - flow stress in cold working, discontinuous yielding, textures
(anisotropy), effects of cold working, annealing, hot working, and interactions between
deformation and structure;
Overview of Mechanics of deformation processing;
Wrought alloys - carbon steels, alloy steels, and nonferrous materials.
Bulk deformation process
Classification - temperature of deformation, purpose of deformation, and analysis;
Open die forging – axial upsetting of a cylinder, forging of rectangular workpieces, and open
die forging;
Overview of Impression-die and closed-die forging;
Extrusion - the extrusion process, hot extrusion, cold extrusion, and extrusion force;
Forging and extrusion equipment - tools and dies, hammers, and presses;
Drawing: the drawing process, and overview of forces.
Rolling - flat rolling, shape rolling, ring rolling, transverse rolling, and overview of forces and
power requirements.
UNIT III
Sheet metalworking processes
Sheet materials - steels, nonferrous materials, surface topography;
Classification;
Shearing - the shearing process, forces, improving the quality of cut, and processes;
Bending - the bending process, bending limits, stresses and springback, and bending
methods;
Overview of Stretch forming;
Deep drawing - drawing processes, limiting draw ratio, and further drawing;
UNIT IV
Processing of plastics
Classification; Casting;
Melt processing (molding) - principles of melt processing, extrusion, injection moulding,
other moulding techniques;
Processing in the rubbery state - blow moulding, thermoforming, cold drawing, matched-die
forming;
Particulate processing techniques; Cellular or foam plastics; Processing of elastomers.
90
UNIT V
Joining processes
Classification; Mechanical joining;
Solid state welding - cold welding, diffusion welding, hot welding, and friction welding
(FRW);
Fusion welding - the fusion joint, weldability and weld quality, and weldable materials;
Resistance welding;
Electric arc welding - nonconsumable electrode welding, consumable-electrode welding,
and consumable-work piece welding;
Overview of liquid solid state bonding
Overview of Adhesive bonding;
Joining of plastics, and joining of ceramics.
TEXT BOOK
Introduction to Manufacturing Processes by John A. Schey; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
1. Manufacturing Processes for Engineering Materials by Serope Kalpakjian
2. Manufacturing Technology (Volume 1) by P.N.Rao; Publisher: TMH.
3. Process and Materials of Manufacturing by Lindberg; Publisher: Pearson Education.
91
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
II Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11ECE1134) BASIC ELECTRONICS
Course prerequisites: Physics and Electronics
Course Objectives:
 To get the knowledge on operational principle, analysis, design and application of the
bipolar junction transistor (BJT),
 understanding of the concepts, know-how and tools of Electronic Design Automation (EDA)
for circuit analysis and design
 Ability on preparing professional report.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 To learn the basics of semiconductor diodes, BJTs and their small signal and high
frequency analysis.
 To learn the basics of tuned amplifiers such as single tuned, double tuned, stagger
tuned & power amplifiers
 Foster ability to work using Fourier series & z-transform.
 Acquired knowledge about Microprocessors and its need.
UNIT I
Semiconductors: P-N junction diode and its applications, and BJT
Review of Semi Conductor Materials; Theory of p-n Junction; P-N Junction as a Diode;
Diode Equation; Volt-Ampere Characteristics; The P-N Junction as a rectifier; Half wave
Rectifier; Full wave rectifier; Bridge Rectifier; Breakdown mechanisms in semiconductor
diodes; Zener diode characteristics; Shunt voltage regulation using Zener diode; Principle
of series voltage regulators; The junction transistor; Transistor as an amplifier; Transistor
construction; BJT Operation; Common base; Common emitter and common collector
configurations.
UNIT II
Feedback amplifiers and oscillators
Concepts of feedback; Classification of feedback amplifiers; General characteristics of
negative feedback amplifiers; Effect of feedback on amplifier characteristics; Classification of
oscillators; Conditions for oscillations, RC phase shift oscillators.
92
UNIT III
Electronic components
Principle of operation of cathode ray tube and CRO; Simple applications; Principle of
operation and characteristics of varactor diode; UJT, SCR, Diac and Triac; Principle of
operation of semiconductor photo diode and phototransistor - LED and LCD; IC 555 Timer
Circuits.
UNITIV
Instrumentation components
Flip-flops; Moving Iron and moving coil meters; Transformers - pulse transformers, and Relays
and Switches; Potentiometers; Synchros - magnetic amplifiers, AC and DC servomotors,
and stepper motors.
UNITV
Introduction to microprocessors; Architecture of 8086 microprocessor; Programming model
of 8086; Addressing modes of 8086; 8086 Instruction set; Analog to Digital and Digital to
Analog Converters.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Integrated Electronics by Jackob MiIIliman, C Halkias, and Satyabratha Jit, 2nd edition
(2007); Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Modern Electronic Instrumentation and Measurement Techniques by Helfrick, Albert D.
and Cooper, William D.; 3rd edition; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
3. Micro Processors and Interfacing by Douglas V. Hall, 2nd edition, 1999; Publisher: Tata
McGraw Hill/ McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
1. Electronic Devices and Circuits by S. S Salivahanan, N. Sursh Kumar, A. Vallava
Raju, 2nd Edition (2007, 2010); Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill
2. Industrial and Power Electronics by G.K. Mithal; Publisher: Khanna.
3. Control System Components by John E. Gibson and Franz B. Tuteur; Publisher:
McGraw Hill (McGraw Hill Series in Control Systems Engineering).
4. Mechanical Details for Product Design by Douglas C. Greenwood; Publisher: McGraw
Hill.
93
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
II Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11MED1204) PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY LAB and APPLIED THERMODYNAMICS
LAB
Course prerequisites: Production Technology, Thermodynamics and Engineering
Mechanics
Course Objectives:
 Understand and evaluate casting techniques and sand properties & valves and
port timing diagrams of I.C.Engines.
 Understand different welding processes and their use & performance curves of the
I.C. Engines.
 Understand various processing of plastics & find friction power and sir fuel ratio of
the given engine.
 Understand different press working operations and plastic moulding & find the
flash and fire point of the given oil
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Summarize the knowledge of molding techniques and be in a position to prepare
moulds for casting
 Summarize the knowledge of joining techniques and can able to perform welding
 Classify various types of press working operations and can able to perform the
press working operations
 Interpret the knowledge in processing of plastics and can able to perform the
experiments
PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY: Six experiments
Metal casting lab
1. Pattern design and making - for one casting drawing.
2. Sand properties testing - exercise -for strengths, and permeability – 1
3. Moulding melting and casting - 1 exercise
Welding lab
1. ARC welding lap and butt joint - 2 exercises
2. Spot welding - 1 exercise
3. TIG welding - 1 exercise
4. Plasma welding and brazing - 2 exercises
94
Mechanical press working
1. Blanking and piercing operation and study of simple, compound and progressive press
tool.
2. Hydraulic press: deep drawing and extrusion operation.
3. Bending and other operations
Processing of plastics
1. Injection moulding
2. Blow moulding
APPLIED THERMODYNAMICS LAB: Six experiments
1. I.C. Engines - valve/ port timing diagrams.
2. I.C. Engines - performance test (4-stroke diesel engines).
3. I.C. Engines - performance test on 2-stroke petrol engine.
4. Evaluation of engine friction by conducting motoring test on 2-stroke petrol engine.
5. I.C.Engines - air/fuel ratio and volumetric efficiency.
6. Flash and fire points.
95
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
II Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11MED1205) FLUID MECHANICS AND TURBOMACHINERY LAB
Course prerequisites: Fluid Mechanics& Hydraulic Machines
Course Objectives:
 Conduct the experiments to understand the concept, find the values and obtain the
result of experiments.
 Apply fundamental principles of fluid mechanics for the solution of practical
mechanical engineering problems of water conveyance in pipes, orifices, mouth
pieces, notches & weirs.
 Understand various pumps, water turbines, pipes and pressure measurement
devices.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 To apply fundamental equations of fluid mechanics for turbines and pumps
 Model and analyze fluid flow problems in mechanical engineering.
 To create a model of fluid flow equipments.
 Evaluate the experimental results with theoretical concepts.
1. Impact of jets on vanes.
2. Performance test on Pelton wheel.
3. Performance test on Francis turbine.
4. Performance test on Kaplan turbine.
5. Performance test on single stage centrifugal pump.
6. Performance test on multi stage centrifugal pump.
7. Performance test on reciprocating pump.
8. Calibration of venturimeter.
9. Calibration of orifice meter.
10. Determination of friction factor for a given pipe line.
11. Determination of loss of head due to sudden contraction in a pipeline.
12. Turbine flow meter.
96
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
III Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11MED1115) DYNAMICS OF MACHINERY
Course Prerequisites: Engineering mechanics, Kinematics of Machinery
Course Objectives:
 Study the construction methods like Klien’s, velocity polygons, acceleration
diagrams etc for drawing various mechanisms.
 Identify the significance of the principles of equilibrium, super position, virtual
work& D’Alembert’s principle.
 Familiarize with the methods of static &dynamic stability.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
 Apply the engineering methods involving the selection and design of machine
components with respect to the forces developed.
 Evaluate whether the proposed design is satisfactory or not.
 Analyze and design flywheels, governors and gyroscopes to withstand forces.
 Understand the impact of vibrations and balancing in practical applications
UNIT I
Static force analysis
Introduction; Applied and constraint forces; Free-body diagrams; Conditions for equilibrium;
Two- and three- force members; Four-force members; Friction-force models; Static force
analysis with friction; Spur-and helical-gear force analysis; Straight-bevel-gear force
analysis; The method of virtual work.
UNIT II
Dynamic force analysis (Planar)
Introduction; Centroid and center of mass; Mass moments and products of inertia; Inertia
forces and D’ Alembert’s principle; The principle of superposition; Planar rotation about a
fixed center; Shaking forces and moments; Complex algebra approach; equation of motion.
Dynamic force analysis (Spatial)
Introduction; Measuring mass moment of inertia; Transformation of Inertia axes; Euler’s
equations of motion; Impulse and momentum; Angular impulse and angular momentum.
97
UNIT III
Dynamics of reciprocating engines
Engine types; Indicator diagrams; Dynamic analysis-general; Gas forces; Equivalent
masses; Inertia forces; Bearing loads in a single-cylinder engine; Crankshaft torque; Engine
shaking forces; Computation overview.
UNIT IV
Balancing
Static unbalance; Equations of motion; Static balancing machines; Dynamic unbalance;
Analysis of unbalance; Dynamic balancing; Balancing machines; Field balancing with a
programmable calculator; Balancing a single-cylinder engine; Balancing multicylinder
engines; Analytical technique for balancing multicylinder reciprocating engines; Balancing
linkages; Balancing of machines.
UNIT V
Overview of cam dynamics
Flywheels
Dynamic theory; Integration technique; Multicylinder engine torque summation.
Governors
Classification; Centrifugal governors; Inertia governors; Mechanical control systems;
Standard input functions; Solution of linear differential equations; Analysis of proportional–
error feedback systems.
Gyroscopes
Introduction; The motion of a gyroscope; Steady or regular precession; Forced procession.
TEXT BOOK
Theory of Machines and Mechanisms by J.J. Uicker Jr., G.R. Pennock, and J.E.Shigley;
Publisher: McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
1. Mechanism Design (Vol 1) by A.G.Erdman and G.N.Sandor; Publisher: Prentice Hall of
India.
2. Theory of Machines by Thomas Bevan; Publisher: CBS
3. Design of Machinery by R.L.Norton; Publisher: McGraw Hill
98
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
III Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11MED1116) MECHANICAL ENGINEERING DESIGN I
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics, Engineering Mechanics, Solid Mechanics,
Metallurgy & Materials Science, Kinematics of Machinery
Course Objectives:
 Understand different properties of Materials and relationship between them.
 Understand the principles of stress, strain and Principal stresses as applied
to Solid bodies or structural and machine elements under loads.
 Understand to form mathematical equation and analyze problems by making
appropriate assumptions and learn systematic engineering method to solve
practical Design engineering problems.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
 Apply the knowledge of stress-strain relations design considerations for the new
design.
 Apply the knowledge of standard elements and their technical information
available in the data bases and in designing machine elements.
 Analyze the bolted and riveted joints for their strength.
 Evaluate the welded joints and springs for the safety.
FUNDAMENTALS OF MECHANICAL DESIGN
UNIT I
Introduction
The meaning of design; Mechanical engineering design; The phases of design; Recognition
and identification; Evaluation and presentation; Design considerations; Factor of safety;
Codes and standards; Economics; Reliability; Safety and product liability; Units.
Stress analysis
Stress; Mohr’s circle; Triaxial stress states; Uniformly distributed stresses; Elastic strain;
Stress strain relations; Shear and moment; Singularity functions.
Normal stresses in bending; Vector programming; Beams with unsymmetrical sections;
Shear stresses in beams; Shear stresses in rectangular-section beams; Flexural shear for
other shapes; Shear center; Torsion; Stresses in cylinders; Press and shrink fits;
Strain energy
Concepts, The theorem of Castigliano; Overview of columns;
99
UNIT II
Design for static strength
Static strength; Static loads and factor of safety; Failure theories; The maximum-normal-
stress theory; The maximum-shear-stress theory; The distortion–energy theory; Failure of
ductile materials; Failure of brittle materials; Stress concentration; Determination of stress
concentration factors; Stress-concentration charts; Stress concentration and static loads.
Design for fatigue strength
Introduction; The S-N diagram, Low-cycle fatigue; High-cycle fatigue; Endurance-limit
modifying factors; Surface finish; Size effects; Reliability; Temperature effects; Stress
concentration effects; Fluctuating stresses; Fatigue strength under fluctuating stresses.
DESIGN OF MECHANICAL ELEMENTS
UNIT III
The design of screws, fasteners, and connections
Thread standard and definitions; The mechanics of power screws; Thread stresses;
Threaded fasteners; Bolted joints in tension; Compression of bolted members; Torque
requirements; Strength specifications; Bolt preload; Selecting the nut; Fatigue loading;
Gasketed joints; Bolted and riveted joints loaded in shear; Centroids of bolt groups; Shear of
bolts and rivets due to eccentric loading; Keys, pins, and retainers.
UNIT IV
Welded, brazed, and bonded joints
Welding; Butt and fillet welds; Torsion in welded joints; Bending in welded joints; The
strength of welded joints.
Mechanical springs
Stresses in helical springs; Deflection of helical springs; Extension springs; Compression
springs; Spring materials; Design of helical springs; Critical frequency of helical springs;
Overview of Fatigue loading.
UNIT V
Rolling contact bearings
Bearing types; Bearing life; Bearing load; Selection of ball and straight roller bearings;
Selection of tapered roller bearings; Lubrication; Mounting and enclosure.
TEXT BOOK
1. Mechanical Engineering Design (SI edition) by J.E. Shigley; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Mechanical Engineering Design (SI edition) by J.E.Shigley and Mischke.
3. Mechanical Engineering Design (International edition) by J.E.Shigley, Mischke, and
Budynas; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
100
4. Mechanical Engineering Design (International edition) by J.E.Shigley, Mischke,
R.G.Budynas, and K.J.Nisbett; Publisher: TMH.
REFERENCE
1. Machine Design by R.L.Norton; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Schaum’s Outline of Machine Design; Publisher: TMH
101
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
III Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MTH1104) NUMERICAL ANALYSIS AND LINEAR PROGRAMMING
Course prerequisites: Elementary Row Transformations of Matrices, Differentiation and
Integration
Course Objectives:
 Understand the numerical methods for non linear systems, evaluating definite
integrals and ordinary differential equations.
 Understand various methods of interpolation.
 Understand the simplex method and methods to solve the transportation problem.
Course Outcomes:
Student will be able to:
 Apply the numerical methods to find a root of algebraic and transcendental
equations.
 Apply the numerical methods to find the solutions of ordinary differential
equations.
 Use simplex method procedure to optimize a linear function.
 Solve transportation problems
NUMERICAL ANALYSIS
UNIT I
Solutions of nonlinear systems
Introduction; Mathematical preliminaries; Solution of algebraic and transcendental equations
– the bisection method, the method of false position, the iteration method, Newton -
Raphson method, and their order of convergence.
UNIT II
Interpolation
Introduction; Errors in polynomial interpolation; Finite differences; Forward differences;
Backward differences; Central differences; Symbolic relations and separation of symbols;
Differences of a polynomial; Newton’s formulae for interpolation; Central difference
interpolation formulae; Gauss’s central difference formulae; Lagrange and Hermite
interpolation formulae; Cubic spline interpolation.
UNIT III
Numerical differentiation and Integration
Introduction; Differentiation of equally and unequally spaced data, and finite difference
approximations; Trapezoidal rule, Simpson’s 1/3 rule, and Simpson’s 3/8 rule.
102
Numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations
Solution of initial value problems by Taylor’s series - Picard’s method of successive
approximations, Euler’s method, and Runge - Kutta methods; Predictor Corrector methods –
Adams-Bashforth-Moulton method.
UNIT IV
Numerical solutions of partial differential equations (PDE)
Introduction; Classification of second order PDE; finite difference approximations to
derivatives; Solution of Laplace and Poisson equation - Jacobi’s method, Gauss-Seidal
method (by Leibmann’s), Solution of parabolic equations (heat equation) by explicit and
Crank Nicolson implicit scheme method; Solution of hyperbolic equations (wave equation).
LINEAR PROGRAMMING
UNIT V
Linear programming
Basic concepts; formulation of linear programming problem; constrained optimization-linear
programming - simplex method, dual simplex method, and transportation problems.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Numerical Analysis by S.S.Sastr;, Publisher: PHI , 2010.
2. Operations Research by Prem Kumar Gupta and D.S.Hira (2003); Publisher: S.Chand.
REFERENCE
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher: John
Wiley and Sons.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher:
Cengage Learning.
3. Elementary Numerical Analysis: An algorithmic approach by Samuel D. Conte and Carl
De Boor (2006); 3rd edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
4. Numerical Analysis by R.L Burden and J.D Faires; 7th edition; Publisher: Thomson,
2007.
103
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
III Year B.Tech ME I sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11MED1117) MACHINE TOOLS
Course Prerequisites: Production Technology, Engineering Materials
Course Objectives:
 Understand Material removal processes, classification of machine tools and types
of cutting tools used for performing different operations.
 Understand the principle of working of lathe machine, special purpose lathe &
construction, working of reciprocating machine tools, milling operations, grinding
& finishing operations.
 Understanding the Need for going to Non-Traditional Machining process &
necessity of jigs & fixtures.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Understand the knowledge on metal cutting and be in a position to adopt the
suitable machining process that is suitable for different materials.
 Know the operations performed on lathe, Special purpose lathes and
reciprocating machine tools
 Get the knowledge on various milling, hole making and abrasive operations and
aware of all work holding and tool holding devices.
 Know the importance of jigs and fixtures for clamping and performing the different
machining operations.
UNIT I
Introduction
Introduction to material removal processes; Variety of machine tools.
Metal cutting
Introduction; Chip formation; Shear zone; Orthogonal cutting; Shear angle and its relevance;
Cutting tool materials; Thermal aspects; Tool wear and tool life; Surface finish; Cutting
fluids; Empirical and analytical determination of cutting forces; Economics.
Machine tools
Introduction; Classification of machine tools; Generating and forming; Methods of generating
surfaces; Accuracy and finish achievable; Basic elements of machine tools; Support
structures; Power transmission; Actuation systems; Guideways; General work holding
methods.
104
UNIT II
Centre lathe
Introduction; Constructional features of a centre lathe; Aids for support and location; Cutting
tools; Operations performed in a centre lathe; Taper turning methods; Thread-cutting
methods; Special attachments; Machining time and power estimation; Typical setups.
Special purpose lathes
Limitations of a centre lathe; Capstan and turret lathes; Automatic lathes; Tooling layout.
Reciprocating Machine Tools
Introduction; Shaper; Planing machine; Slotter.
UNIT III
Milling
Introduction; Types of milling machines; Milling cutters; Milling operations; Dividing head;
Milling Mechanics; Milling time and power estimation; Special setups.
Hole-making operations
Introduction; Drilling; Reaming; Boring; Tapping; Other hole-making operations.
Abrasive processes
Introduction; Grinding wheel designation and selection; Types of grinding machines;
Grinding process; Grinding process parameters; Creep feed grinding; Honing; Lapping;
Other finishing processes.
UNIT IV
Other machine tools
Sawing; Overview of Broaching; Gear cutting.
Overview of Machine tool testing
Designing for machining
Introduction; General guidelines for “design for machining”.
UNIT V
Jigs and fixtures
Introduction; Functional surfaces; Location principles; Locating devices; Clamping devices;
Jigs; Designing a Jig; Fixtures.
TEXT BOOK
Manufacturing Technology (Volume 2): Metal Cutting and Machine Tools by P.N. Rao;
Publisher: McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
1. Technology of Machine Tools by Steve F Krar, Arthur R Gill, and Peter Smid;
Publisher: McGraw Hill.
105
2. Production Technology; Publisher: HMT and McGraw Hill.
3. Manufacturing Engineering and Technology by Serope Kalpakjian and Steven R.
Schmid; Publisher: Pearson.
106
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
III Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11MED1118) METROLOGY AND INSTRUMENTATION
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Elements of Engineering
Course Objectives:
 Understand about the knowledge of limits and fits
 Impart the knowledge on various measuring instruments
 Understand about the knowledge on instrument transducers
 Impart the knowledge on installation and commissioning
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 To understand the knowledge of limits, fits and tolerances
 To understand the use of various measuring instruments
 To understand the better knowledge about instrument transducers and their
design and construction
 To learn about instrument installation and commissioning
METROLOGY FOR WORKSHOP/ MACHINE SHOP
UNIT I
Accuracy – interchangeability – gauging
Conditions and synthesis of accuracy; Interchangeability and limit systems; BS system;
Selective assembly gauging; Limit gauges; Indicating gauges; Special and first operation
gauges.
Checking and measurement of surfaces
Surface relationships and accuracy; Tests for accuracy; Flatness; Squareness; Parallelism;
Roundness; Concentricity; Angle measurement; Vernier protractor; Length measurement;
The rule; Calipers; Micrometer; Vernier caliper; Use of gauges; Metric system; Metric and
english micrometer and vernier.
UNIT II
Measurement and precision work
Slip gauges; Comparator; Vernier height guage; Marking out; Vernier micrometer; Examples
of measurement; Sine bar; Angular testing; Use of rollers; Tapers; Projection.
107
Measurement and inspection
The standard of length; Measurement and comparison of length; Plane, angular, and linear
examination; Comparison of heights and parallelism; Angular and division testing; The tool
maker’s microscope; Inspection and control on the machine.
Screw thread and spur gear measurement
Screw thread shapes and accuracy; Screw thread inspection; Screw thread limits and
tolerances; Measurements and testing of gears.
UNIT III
Surface roughness measurements
Surface roughness vs. surface waviness; Numerical assessment of surface finish; Methods
of measurements of surface finish; ISI symbols for indication of finish.
INSTRUMENTATION: MECHANICAL MEASUREMENTS
Measurement of flow
Introduction; Basic principles of flow measurement; Fluid flow in closed pipes; Flow in open
channels; Point velocity measurement; Flow meter calibration methods.
Overview of measurement of viscosity
INSTRUMENTATION SYSTEMS
UNIT IV
Classification of instrument transducers
Primary quantities – input characteristics; Secondary quantities – output characteristics;
Electromechanical coupling characteristics – electromechanical analogies, and Unified
theory of bilateral electromechanical transducers (basic two port equations; ideal
transducers; real transducers); Feedback systems.
Design and construction of instruments
Introduction; Instrument design; Elements of construction; Construction of electronic
instruments; Mechanical instruments;
Instrument installation and commissioning
Introduction; General requirements; Storage and protection; Mounting and accessibility;
Piping systems. Cabling; Earthing; Overview of testing and precommissioning; Plant
commissioning.
UNIT V
Overview of pneumatic instrumentation
Display and recording
Introduction; Indicating devices; Light-emitting diodes (LEDs); Liquid crystal displays
(LCDs); Plasma displays; Cathode ray tubes (CRTs); Graphical recorders; Magnetic
recording; Transient/waveform recorders; Data loggers.
Interface and backplane bus standards for instrumentation systems
Introduction; Principles of interface; Data-link control protocol; Parallel interface and buses;
Parallel bus; backplane bus; parallel bus; Black plane bus standards.
108
TEXT BOOK
For Metrology part:
1. Workshop Technology - Part I (3rd edition) by W.A.J. Chapman; pp. 194 to 228;
Publisher: Viva Books.
2. Workshop Technology - Part II (3rd edition) by W.A.J. Chapman; pp. 1 to 68; Publisher:
Viva Books.
3. Workshop Technology - Part III (3rd edition) by W.A.J. Chapman and S.J. Martin; pp.
481 to 506 and 531 to 545; Publisher: Viva Books.
For Instrumentation part:
INSTRUMENTATION by B.E. Noltingk (Part Numbers 1, and 4); Publisher: Butterworth-
Heinemann 1995
(Alternatively available as separate books, Jones' Instrument Technology - Volume 1:
Mechanical Measurements; Jones' Instrument Technology - Volume 4: Instrumentation
Systems by Ernest Beachcroft Jones, and B.E.Noltingk; Publisher: Butterworths
1985/1987).
REFERENCE
1. Instrument Transducers: An Introduction to Theory by Neubert Herman; Publisher:
Oxford - Harper Collins
2. Engineering Metrology by Hume
3. Metrology by R.K. Jain
109
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
III Year B. Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11MED1119) COMPUTER AIDED DESIGN
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Engineering Graphics
Course Objectives:
 Impart the knowledge of terminology involved in CAD
 Understand about the parametric representation of curves and surfaces
 Understand about the creation of various solid models
 Know about the fundamentals involved in data exchange formats
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Identify the database management terminology, interpret and use CAD/CAM
software efficiently.
 Realize and solve the parametric representation of curves and surfaces.
 Validate the solid models through various representation schemes
 Relate to the various data exchange formats and demonstrate part programming
knowledge.
OVERVIEW OF CAD/CAM SYSTEMS
UNIT I
CAD/CAM software
Introduction; Graphics standards; Basic definitions - data structure, database, database
management system (DBMS), database coordinate system, working coordinate system, and
screen coordinate system; Modes of graphics operations; User interface, Software modules
- operating system (OS) module, graphics module, applications module, programming
module, and communications module; Modeling and viewing; Software documentation;
Software development; Efficient use of CAD/CAM software; Software trends.
GEOMETRIC MODELING
UNIT II
Types and mathematical representations of curves
Introduction; wireframe models; Wireframe entities; Curve representation; Parametric
representation of analytic curves - review of vector algebra, lines, circles, ellipses,
parabolas, hyperbolas, and conics; Parametric representation of synthetic curves - hermite
cubic splines, Bezier curves, B-spline curves, and rational curves; Curve manipulations -
displaying, evaluating points on curves, blending, segmentation, trimming, intersection, and
transformation; Design and engineering applications; Graphics aids, graphics manipulations,
and editings;
110
Practice of flow charts on the above topics to aid in the development of CAD software.
UNIT III
Types and mathematical representations of surfaces
Introduction; Surface models; Surface entities; Surface representation; Parametric
representation of analytic surfaces - plane surface, ruled surface, surface of revolution, and
tabulated cylinder; Parametric representation of synthetic surfaces - hermite bicubic surface,
Bezier surface, B-spline surface, Coons surface, blending surface, offset surface, triangular
patches, sculptured surface, and rational parametric surface; Surface manipulations –
displaying, evaluating points and curves on surfaces, segmentation, trimming, intersection,
projection, and transformation; Design and engineering applications; Practice of flow charts
on the above topics to aid in the development of CAD software.
UNIT IV
Types and mathematical representations of solids
Introduction; Solid models; Solid entities; Solid representation; Fundamentals of solid
modeling - set theory, regularized set operations, and set membership classification;
Boundary representation - basic elements, building operations, and remarks; Constructive
solid geometry (CSG) – basic elements, building operations, and remarks; Sweep
representation - basic elements, building operations, and remarks; Overview of analytical
solid modeling; Solid manipulations - displaying, evaluating points, curves and surfaces on
solids, segmentation, trimming and intersection, transformation, and editing; Overview of
solid modeling- based applications.
UNIT V
CAD/CAM data exchange
Introduction; Evolution of data exchange format - shape-based format, product data-based
format, and ISO standard; IGES - description, data representation, file structure and format,
processors, and remarks; Overview of PDES
NC and CNC Programming
Types of part programming; Basic CNC structure; CNC programming using G and M codes.
TEXT BOOK
CAD/ CAM – THEORY and PRACTICE by Ibrahim Zeid; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
1. CAD/ CAM by Zimmer and Groover; Publisher: Pearson 56Education.
2. Computer Graphics by Harrington; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
3. CAD/CAM/CIM by Radhakrishnan and Subramanyam; Publisher: New Age Publishers.
111
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
III Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
0 5 3
(R11MED1206) MACHINE TOOLS LAB AND METROLOGY LAB
Course Prerequisite: Machine tools, Metrology and Engineering Materials
Course Objectives:
 Remember the working principles of lathe and its accessories.
 Remember the significance of operating parameters and selection of cutting tools
for performing machining operations on drilling, milling, shaping, slotting and
grinding machines
 Familiarize the measurement techniques by using metrology instruments.
 Impart the knowledge on characteristics of measuring instruments.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Understand the working principles of various machine tools and accessories and
the significance of operating parameters and tooling of machine tools.
 Understand the safety precautions to be taken while working on machine tools.
 Understand working principles of various instruments and their applications.
 Understand the significance of calibration and the working procedure of
conducting various tests.
MACHINE TOOLS LAB: Ten experiments
1. Introduction to general purpose machines - lathe, drilling machine, milling machine,
shaper, planing machine, slotting machine, cylindrical grinder, surface grinder, and tool
and cutter grinder.
2. Step turning and taper turning on lathe machine.
3. Thread cutting and knurling on lathe machine.
4. Drilling and tapping.
5. Shaping.
6. Slotting.
7. Milling.
8. Cylindrical grinding
9. Surface grinding.
10. Grinding of tool angles.
METROLOGY: Ten experiments
1. Measurement of lengths, heights, diameters by vernier calipers micrometers etc.
2. Measurement of bores by internal micrometers and dial bore indicators.
112
3. Use of gear teeth, Vernier calipers and checking the chordal addendum and chordal
height of spur gear.
4. Machine tool alignment test on a lathe.
5. Machine tool alignment test on a milling machine.
6. Tool makers microscope and its application
7. Angle and taper measurements by bevel protractor, sine bars, etc.
8. Use of spirit level in finding the flatness of surface plate.
9. Thread measurement by two wire/ three wire method or tool makers’ microscope.
10. Surface roughness measurement by Taly Surf.
11. Surface wear resistances test using electro spark coating device.
REFERENCE
1. Workshop Technology by W.A.J. Chapman (Parts I, II, and III); Publisher: Viva Books.
2. The Principles of Metallographic Laboratory Practice by George L. Kehl; Publisher:
McGraw Hill.
113
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
III Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11MED1207) CAD LAB AND INSTRUMENTATION LAB
Course Prerequisites: CAD and Basic Electronics
Course Objectives:
 Understand the ways in which 2D sketches and 3D models –solid and surface are
made using appropriate CAD packages
 Know the procedure of building the models and obtain drafted views from it
 Know the calibration of pressure gauges
 Understand the calibration of transducer and thermocouple
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Summarize the skills learnt in sketching using CAD packages
 Design the solid models and obtain the drafted views
 Assess and measure the calibration of pressure gauges
 Assess and measure the calibration of transducer and thermocouple
CAD LAB: Six exercises
1) Write a program that draws a line and an arc of desired dimensions by accepting user-
input of the relevant geometric description.
2) Program written for experiment # 1 should be enhanced to show a menu of draw-
commands (line and arc) and to accept the user-choice. Upon choosing a command, the
program should be able to draw an entity as per the user-choice by accepting the user-input
of the relevant geometric description by mouse–clicks.
3) Improve the program written for experiments 1 and 2 in order to make a thorough
validation of the input data and to facilitate generating all possible cases of in-plane arcs
between two points.
4) Enhance the program written for experiments 1 to 3 in order to enable the user to input
the geometric description for line and arc by picking the start/end/mid points of an existing
line, by means of a mouse.
5) Enhance the program written for experiments 1 to 4 in order to enable the user to input
the geometric description for a line and an arc by picking the center/quarter points of an
existing circle or end points of an existing arc, by means of a mouse.
6) Improve the program written for experiments 1 to 5 to perform the edit-commands for
erasing, copying, chamfering, and filleting.
or
114
7) Practicing of advanced CAD models.
INSTRUMENTATION LAB: Six experiments
1. Calibration of pressure gauges
2. Calibration of transducer for temperature measurement.
3. Study and calibration of LVDT transducer for displacement measurement.
4. Calibration of strain gauge for temperature measurement.
5. Calibration of thermocouple for temperature measurement.
6. Calibration of capacitive transducer for angular displacement.
7. Study and calibration of photo and magnetic speed pickups for the measurement of
speed.
8. Calibration of resistance temperature detector for temperature measurement.
9. Study and calibration of a rotometer for flow measurement.
10. Study and use of a seismic pickup for the measurement of vibration amplitude of an
engine bed at various loads.
11. Study and calibration of Mcleod gauge for low pressure.
12. Mounting and calibration of load cell.
115
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
III Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11MED1120) MECHANICAL ENGINEERING DESIGN II
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Mechanics, Strength of Materials, Kinematics of
Machinery and Dynamics of Machinery
Course Objectives:
 Understand different types of bearing and their design, center cranks, crank pins,
crank shafts.
 Understand stresses in curved beams, expression for radius of neutral axis for
rectangular, circular, trapezoidal and T-section, transmission of power by belt and
rope drives, transmission efficiencies.
 Understand the overview of different types of gears and their applications, force
analysis, friction in worm gears etc.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Analyze different types of bearings.
 Evaluate different types of gears.
 Analyze the clutches, brakes, couplings and flywheels.
 Apply the design concepts for the design of flexible power transmission drives.
UNIT I
Lubrication and journal bearings
Types of lubrication; Viscosity; Petroff’s law; Stable lubrication; Thick-film lubrication;
Hydrodynamic theory; Design considerations; Bearing performance; Optimization
techniques; Pressure–fed bearings; Heat balance; Bearing design; Bearing types; Thrust
bearings; Bearing materials; Boundary- lubricated bearings.
UNIT II
Spur gears
Nomenclature; Conjugate action; Involute properties; Fundamentals; Contact ratio;
Interference; The forming of gear teeth; Basic tooth dimensions; Gear trains; Force analysis;
Tooth stresses; Dynamic effects; Estimating gear size; Fatigue strength; Factor of safety;
Surface durability; Surface fatigue strength; Heat dissipation; Gear materials; Gear- blank
design.
Helical, worm, and bevel gears
Parallel helical gears-kinematics; Helical gears-tooth proportions; Helical gears- force
analysis; Helical gears-strength analysis; Crossed helical gears; Worm gearing–kinematics;
116
Worm gearing-force analysis; An observation and some REFERENCE; Straight bevel
gears- kinematics; Bevel gears- force analysis; Spiral bevel gears.
UNIT III
Shafts Power screws
Introduction; Design for static loads; A historical approach; Reversed bending and steady
torsion; The Soderberg approach; The Goodman approach; A general approach; The Sines
approach, Suggestions for computer solution.
Power Screws
UNIT IV
Clutches, brakes, couplings, and flywheels
Statics; Internal–expanding rim clutches and brakes; External–contracting rim clutches and
brakes; Band-type clutches and brakes; Band type clutches and brakes; Frictional-contact
axial clutches; Cone clutches and brakes; Energy considerations; Temperature rise; Friction
materials; Miscellaneous clutches and couplings; Flywheels.
UNIT V
Flexible, mechanical elements
Belts; Flat- belt drives; V belts; Roller chain; Rope drives; Wire rope.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Mechanical Engineering Design (SI edition) by J.E. Shigley; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Mechanical Engineering Design (SI edition) by J.E.Shigley and Mischke.
3. Mechanical Engineering Design (International edition) by J.E.Shigley, Mischke, and
Budynas; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
4. Mechanical Engineering Design (International edition) by J.E.Shigley, Mischke,
R.G.Budynas, and K.J.Nisbett; Publisher: TMH.
REFERENCE
1. Machine Design by R.L.Norton; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Schaum’s Outline of Machine Design; Publisher: TMH.
117
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
III Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(R11AME1102) STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Mechanics, Solid Mechanics
Course Objectives:
 Define types of loads and analyse statically determinate structures & trusses
 Describe principals of shear and moment for a beam & Frame
 Demonstrate design of cables under concentrated loads & uniform distributed
loads
 Analyse beams, trusses, grinders under influences lines.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Determine the deflections of simple trusses and beams.
 Differentiate between determinate and indeterminate structures.
 Qualitatively understand the way structures deform under loads.
 Analyze statically determinate structures.
UNIT I
Types of structures and loads
Introduction; Classification of structures; Loads; Structural Design.
Analysis of statically determinate structures
Idealized structures; Principle of superposition; Equations of equilibrium; Analysis of simple
diaphragm and shear wall systems; Maximum influence at a point due to a series of
concentrated loads.
UNIT II
Analysis of statically determinate trusses
Common types of trusses; Classification of coplanar trusses; The method of joints; Zero-
force members; The method of sections; Compound trusses; Complex trusses; Space
trusses.
UNIT III
Internal loading developed in structural members
Internal loading at a specified point; Shear and moment functions; Shear and moment
diagrams for a beam; Shear and moment diagrams for a frame; Moment diagrams
constructed by the method of superposition.
118
UNIT IV
Cables and Arches
Cables; cable subjected to concentrated loads; Cable subjected to a uniform distributed
load; Arches; Three-hinged arch.
UNIT V
Influence lines for statically determinate structures
Influence lines; Influence lines for beams; Qualitative influence lines; Influence lines for floor
girders; Influence lines for trusses; Live loads for bridges; Maximum influence at a point due
to a series of concentrated loads; Absolute maximum shear and moment; Overview of
applications for influence lines.
Deflections
Deflections of trusses by virtual work method
Overview of analysis of statically indeterminate structures
TEXT BOOK
Structural Analysis by R.C.Hibbeler; Publisher: Pearson Education
REFERENCE
1. Fundamentals of Structural Analysis by Kenneth M. Leet and Chia – Ming Uang; TMH
2. Structural Analysis by Prakash Rao.
119
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
III Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MED1121) FINITE ELEMENT METHOD
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Strength of Materials, Mechancal Vibrations
Course Objectives:
 Understand different concepts of FEM.
 To study the boundary conditions, formulations and other functional approaches of
FEM.
 To perform simulations using FEM software.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Name and tabulate various approaches leads to FEM to solve a given problem.
 Describe the given problem for finding solution using finite element technique.
 Apply the concept of FEM to solve different field problems.
 Assess real life problems using dynamic analysis
UNIT I
Fundamental concepts
Introduction; Historical background; Stresses and equilibrium; Boundary conditions; Strain-
displacement relations; Stress-strain relations; Temperature effects; Potential energy and
equilibrium - the Rayleigh-Ritz method; Galerkin’s method; Saint Venant’s principle; Von
Mises stress.
Matrix algebra and Gaussian elimination
Matrix algebra; Gaussian elimination; Conjugate gradient method for equation solving.
One-dimensional problems
Introduction; Finite element modeling; Co-ordinates and shape functions; The potential
energy approach; The Galerkin approach; Assembly of the global stiffness matrix (K) and
load vector; Properties of K; The finite element equations; Treatment of boundary
conditions; Quadratic shape functions; Temperature effects.
UNIT II
Trusses
Introduction; Plane trusses; Three-dimensional trusses; Assembly of global stiffness matrix
for the banded and skyline solutions.
120
Two-dimensional problems using constant strain triangles
Introduction; Finite element modeling; Constant strain triangle (CST); Problem modeling and
boundary conditions.
UNIT III
Axisymmetric solids subjected to axisymmetric loading
Introduction; Axisymmetric formulation; Finite element modeling - triangular element;
Problem modeling and boundary conditions.
UNIT IV
Two-dimensional is parametric elements and numerical integration
Introduction; The four-node quadrilateral; Numerical integration; Higher-order-elements.
UNIT V
Beams and frames
Introduction; Finite element formulation; Load vector; Boundary considerations; Shear force
and bending moment; Beams on elastic supports; Plane frames; Three-dimensional frames.
Overview of Three-dimensional problems in stress analysis
TEXT BOOK
Introduction to Finite Elements in Engineering, 2E, by Tirupathi R. Chandrupatla, Ashok D.
Belegundu; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
REFERENCE
1. Finite Element Method by Zienkiewicz.
2. An Introduction to Finite Element Methods by J.N.Reddy.
3. Finite Element Method by S.S.Rao.
121
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
III Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(R11MED1122) HEAT AND MASS TRANSFER
Course Prerequisites: Basic integral and differential calculus, thermodynamics
Course Objectives:
 To understand different modes of heat transfer in physical environment under various
conditions.
 To develop the equations governing the phenomena of heat transfer.
 To apply these equations to analyze problems by making good assumptions
and solve practical heat transfer problems.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Understanding of different modes of heat transfer in physical environment under
various conditions.
 Developing of equations governing the phenomena of heat transfer as well as
approach to numerical estimation of heat flow.
 Apply governing equations to analyze problems with proper assumptions and solve
practical heat transfer problems.
 Design of various heat equipments on the basis of physical conditions and improve
the efficiency.
UNIT I
Introduction
Conduction heat transfer; Thermal conductivity; Convection heat transfer; Radiation heat
transfer; Dimensions and units.
Steady-state conduction – one dimension
Introduction; The plane wall; Insulation and R values; Radial systems; The overall heat–
transfer coefficient; Critical thickness of insulation; Heat-source systems; Cylinder with heat
sources; Conduction-convection systems; Fins; Thermal contact resistance.
UNIT II
Steady-state conduction
Introduction; Mathematical analysis of two-dimensional heat conduction; Graphical analysis;
The conduction shape factor; Numerical method of analysis; Overview of Numerical
formulation in terms of resistance elements.
122
Unsteady-state conduction
Introduction; Lumped-heat-capacity system; Transient heat flow in a semi-infinite solid;
Convection boundary conditions; Overview of transient numerical method; Overview of
thermal resistance and capacity formulation.
UNIT III
Principles of convection
Introduction; Viscous flow; Inviscid flow; Laminar boundary layer on a flat plate; Energy
equation of the boundary layer; The thermal boundary layer; The relation between fluid
friction and heat transfer; Turbulent-boundary-layer heat transfer; Overview of turbulent-
boundary layer Thickness; Overview of heat transfer in laminar tube flow, turbulent flow in a
tube, and heat transfer in high-speed flow. Overview of empirical and practical relations for
forced convection heat transfer.
Natural convection systems
Introduction; Free convection heat transfer on a vertical flat plate; Overview of empirical
relations for free convection; Free convection from vertical plates and cylinders; Free
convection from horizontal cylinders; Overview of free convection from horizontal plates;
Overview of free convection from inclined surfaces; Introduction to non-newtonian fluids.
UNIT IV
Radiation heat transfer
Introduction; Physical mechanism; Radiation properties; Radiation shape factor; Relations
between shape factors; Heat exchange between nonblack bodies; Infinite parallel surfaces;
Radiation shields; Gas radiation.
UNIT V
Condensation and boiling heat transfer
Introduction; Condensation heat-transfer phenomena; The condensation number; Overview
of film condensation inside horizontal tubes; Overview of boiling heat transfer; Simplified
relations for boiling heat transfer with water.
Heat exchangers
Introduction; The overall heat-transfer coefficient; Fouling factors; Types of heat
exchangers; The log mean temperature difference; Effectiveness-NTU method, Overview of
compact heat exchangers, and heat exchanger design considerations.
Mass transfer
Introduction; Fick’s law of diffusion; Diffusion in gases; Diffusion in liquids and solids; The
mass-transfer coefficient; Evaporation processes in the atmosphere.
123
TEXT BOOK
Heat Transfer by J.P. Holman; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
1. Heat Transfer by P.K. Nag.
2. Heat and Mass Transfer by Cengel; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
3. Schaum’s Outline of Heat Transfer; Publisher; TMH
124
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
III Year B. Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11HAS1102) BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Course Prerequisites: Basic knowledge about Economics, Finance and Business
Course Objectives:
 To explain the features, merits, limitations and suitability of different forms of
organizing private and public business enterprises and to analyze the significance
of Managerial Economics and how it helps business managers in performing
decision – making function.
 To define Demand, Elasticity of Demand and Demand Forecasting and to explain
and analyze the factors of Demand, Elasticity of Demand and Demand
Forecasting.
 To analyze the nature of various costs and how they influence the total cost, to
determine the level of output at which there is neither profit nor loss and to
identify the volume of sales at which desired amount of profit can be earned.
 To estimate capital requirements, to describe the sources of mobilizing capital
and to evaluate the investment opportunities. To explain input – output
relationship in short and long period and to identify least cost combinations of
inputs to produce desired quantity of output.
 To describe the features of different market structure and different pricing
strategies.
 To explain the basic accounting concepts and conventions. To elaborate the
importance of finance function for evaluating the economics status of a business
unit.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Select the suitable form of business organization which meets the requirement of
selected business also perform decision – making function effectively in an
uncertain frame work by applying concepts of Managerial Economics. Meet and
manipulate the demand efficiently and plan the future course of action.
 Apply right kind cost to reduce cost by paying attention towards the costs which
can be reduced. Take decision whether to buy or produce? Reduce the cost of
capital by selecting best source of fund mobilization and select best investment
opportunity which yields higher rate of return.
 Fix the right price which can best meets the predetermined objectives of the
business firm under different market conditions. Able to select best combination
of inputs to produce required quantity of output.
125
 Prepare books of accounts and know over all financial position of the business
enterprise which enables the concerned to take appropriate measures to improve
the situation. Also interpret the financial position from difference angles and
initiates the measures/ efforts in that direction.
UNIT I
Business and new economic environment
Characteristic features of business; Features and evaluation of sole proprietorship;
Partnership; Joint stock company; Public enterprises and their types; Changing business
environment in post- liberalization scenario.
UNIT II
Introduction to business economics, and demand analysis
Definition; Nature and scope of managerial economics - demand analysis determinants;
Law of demand and its exceptions.
Elasticity of demand and demand forecasting
Definition; Types; Measurement and significance of elasticity of demand; Demand
forecasting; Factors governing demand forecasting; Methods of demand forecasting -
survey methods, statistical methods, expert opinion method, test marketing, controlled
experiments, and judgmental approach to demand forecasting.
UNIT III
Cost analysis
Cost concepts - opportunity cost, fixed vs. variable costs, explicit costs vs. implicit costs,
and out of pocket costs vs. imputed costs; Break-even analysis (BEA) - determination of
break-even point (simple problems), managerial significance, and limitations of BEA.
Capital and capital budgeting
Capital and its significance; Types of capital; Estimation of fixed and working capital
requirements; Methods and sources of raising finance.
Nature and scope of capital budgeting; Features of capital budgeting proposals; Methods of
capital budgeting - payback method, accounting rate of return (ARR), and net present value
method (simple problems)
UNIT IV
Theory of production
Production function - isoquants and isocosts, least cost combination of inputs, and laws of
returns; Internal and external economics of scale.
126
Market structures
Types of competition; Features of perfect competition, monopoly, and monopolistic
competition; Price-output determination in case of perfect competition and monopoly.
Pricing policies and methods
Cost plus pricing; Marginal cost pricing; Sealed bid pricing; Going rate pricing, Limit pricing,
Market skimming pricing, Penetration pricing, Two-part pricing, Block pricing, Bundling
pricing, Peak load pricing, Cross subsidization.
UNIT V
Introduction to financial accounting
Double-entry book keeping; Journal; Ledger; Trial balance; Final accounts - trading account,
profit and loss account, and balance sheet with simple adjustments.
Financial analysis through ratios
Computation; Analysis and interpretation of liquidity ratios - current ratio, and quick ratio;
Activity ratios - inventory turnover ratio, and debtor turnover ratio; Capital structure ratios –
debt-equity ratio, and interest coverage ratio; Profitability ratios - gross profit ratio, net profit
ratio, operating ratio, P/E ratio, and EPs.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Managerial Economics and Financial Analysis by Aryasri, 2009; Publisher: Tata
McGraw Hill.
2. Managerial Economics by Varshney and Maheswari, 2009; Publisher: Sultan Chand.
REFERENCE
1. Financial Accounting for Management: An analytical perspective by Ambrish Gupta,
2010; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Managerial Economics by H. Craig Peterson and W. Cris Lewis; Publisher: Prentice
Hall of India.
127
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
III Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11CED1109) ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
Course Prerequisites: General Science
Learning Objectives:
 Develop an understanding of the necessity of protection of environment.
 Develop an understanding of Natural resources.
 Develop an understanding of Biodiversity.
 Develop an understanding of Global Environmental problems.
 Develop an understanding of Environmental pollution.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Acquire the knowledge on environment.
 List and distinguish between different Natural Resources.
 Develop skills in understanding of various environmental problems.
 Find the solution and strategies to protect the Environment
UNIT I
Introduction; Definition, scope, and Importance
Ecosystems - Introduction, types, Classification of Eco system, AND structure and functions
of ecosystems.
Bio-diversity and its conservation; Value of bio-diversity; Bio-geographical classification of
India – India as a mega diversity habitat; Threats to bio-diversity –Hot-spots of Bio Diversity;
Conservation of bio-diversity.
UNIT II
Natural Resources
Classification of Resources; Land resources; Land degradation; Soil erosion and
desertification; Food resources; Effects of modern agriculture; Fertilizer pesticide problems;
Food miles; Organic farming; Forest resources; Use and over-exploitation; Water resources;
Dams–benefits; Conflicts over Water; Energy resources-sustainable Development; Energy
Audit
128
UNIT III
Environmental pollution and its control
Classification of pollution and pollutants; Air pollution, causes; Effects; Control measures;
Ambient air quality standards; Water pollution causes; Effects; Control measures; Water and
waste water treatment methods; Water quality standards; Noise pollution causes; Effects;
Control measures; Land pollution causes, effects, and control measures; Solid waste
disposal methods; Characteristics of e-waste and management.
UNIT IV
Global Environmental problems and global Efforts
Nuclear hazards; Global warming; Acid rain; Hurricanes; Hazardous Waste; Overpopulation;
Ozone layer depletion; Clean development mechanism; Green computing; Green Building;
Carbon credits; Carbon trading.
International conventions/protocols
Earth summit; Kyoto protocol and Montreal protocol; Stockholm Declaration
UNIT V
Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management plan
Definition of impact; Classification of Impacts; Prediction of impacts and impact assessment
methodologies; Environmental impact statement; Environmental management plan -
Technological Solutions.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Environmental Science by Y.Anjaneyulu; Publisher: BS Publications.
2. Text book of Environmental Studies by Deeksha Dave; Publisher: Cengage Learning.
3. Textbook of Environmental Science and Technology by M.Anji Reddy; Publisher: BS
Publications
REFERENCE
1. Environmental Science by Anubha Kaushik and C P Kaushik; Publisher: New Age
International
2. Environmental Studies by S V S Rana; Publisher: Rastogi Publications
3. Text book of Environmental Studies by Dr. K Raghavan Nambiar; Publisher: Scitech
Publishers.
129
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
III Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11MED1208) HEAT AND MASS TRANSFER LAB
Course Prerequisites: Heat and Mass Transfer, Thermodynamics
Course Objectives:
 Understand various modes of heat transfer experimentally.
 Understand calculations of heat transfer co-efficient in difference systems.
 Understand factors affecting the heat transfer rate.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Evaluate critical thickness of insulation to minimize heat lost.
 Evaluate thermal conductivity of lagged pipe , metal bar and insulating powder
 Evaluate Heat transfer coefficient for natural and forced convection
 Evaluate emissivity of the given metal
1. Composite slab apparatus – Overall heat transfer co-efficient.
2. Heat transfer through lagged pipe.
3. Heat transfer through a concentric sphere
4. Thermal conductivity of given metal rod.
5. Heat transfer in pin-fin
6. Experiment on transient heat conduction
7. Heat transfer in forced convection apparatus.
8. Heat transfer in natural convection
9. Parallel and counter flow heat exchanger.
10. Emissivity apparatus.
11. Stefan boltzman apparatus.
12. Heat transfer in drop and film wise condensation.
13. Critical heat flux apparatus.
14. Study of heat pipe and its demonstration.
15. Study of two – phase flow.
130
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
III Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11HAS1204) ADVANCED ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS
LABORATORY
Introduction
This course aims to offer students a practical approach to Technical Writing, and
provide a relevant, contemporary and authoritative introduction to the dynamic
field of technical communication that prepares them for Workplace
Communication. Each unit in the syllabus is devised so as to include a writing
component as well as an oral component.
Course objectives:
 enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content to write
business letters, resume, SOP, Proposals and Technical Reports for academics
as well as for workplace.
 enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific target
audience.
 groom students to speak accurately and fluently and prepare them for real world
activities through behavioral skills.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Summarize and synthesize information and produce technical writing that is
required in academics as well as in the engineering profession.
 write covering letters, resume, SOP, Project Proposals and Technical Reports.
 speak fluently and address a large group of audience and participate in debates
and discussions
 Negotiate terms, manage complex situations through interpersonal skills,
persuade people and make quick decisions
Methodology
Writing Component
A Process- Genre methodology will be used in teaching the technical genres. This method
would enable students to understand the use of particular lexico-grammatical patterns
required of in the context of technical writing. They would learn to use language to express
the particular communicative intent that is required of in the context of writing these genres.
131
Oral Communication Component
The objective of including Oral Communication is to impart behavioral skills and prepare
students to speak to a large group or team, keeping in mind the audience, context and
purpose of communication. This Oral Communication component must enable students to
speak in an organized and mature way, without any inhibitions. They will be groomed to
relate their speech to their audience.
Objectives of Oral Communication Component
i) equip students with Behavioral skills
ii) prepare them for Oral presentations, and Group Discussions
iii) equip them with Interview skills
Syllabus Outline
UNIT I
1. Applications and Covering letters
2. Resume Writing
3. Oral Communication :Self Introduction
UNIT II
1. Introduction to Technical Writing
 Defining Technical Writing
 Distinguishing it from other types of writing
 Determining audience, purpose and context
2. Summarizing and Synthesizing Information
3. Behavioral Skills and Personality Development
(a) Building a positive attitude, building a positive personality, Motivation, goal setting,
values and vision
(b) Problem Solving and Decision Making; Negotiation Skills through Role Play
(c) Team Building and Leadership Abilities
UNIT III
1. Verbal Ability : language, reasoning skills, analytical ability, reading and listening skills
2. Oral Communication: Presentation Skills (Oral and Visual)
UNIT IV
1. Writing Research Abstracts
132
2. Oral Communication: Group Discussions
UNIT V
1. Writing Project Proposals
2. Writing Project Reports
3. Oral Communication: Interview Skills
REQUIRED TEXT BOOKS AND MATERIALS
1. Technical Writing: Process and Product by Sharon J. Gerson and Steven M.
Gerson (1999); Publisher: Prentice Hall.
2. Effective Technical Communication by Ashraf Rizvi, M., (2005); Publisher: Tata
Mc Graw Hill.
3. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical
Communication: A Reader-Centered Approach (5th ed.) (pp. 457-473). Boston:
Heinle.
REFERENCE
1. Technical Communication by Rebecca E. Burnett, 5th edition (2001); Publisher:
Thomson/Wadsworth
2. Technical Communication: A Practical Approach (7th ed.) by William S. Pfeiffer;
Publisher: Person education
3. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies by Mike Markel (2006-2007);
Publisher: Bedford/ St. Martins.
4. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Three Types of Special Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's
Technical Communication: A Reader-Centered Approach (5th ed..) (pp. 474-513).
Boston:Heinle.
5. Bolter, Jay David (2001), “The Late Age of Print” in Robert P. Yagelski's
Literacies and Technologies: A Reader for Contemporary Writers (135-145);
Publisher: Longman.
6. Brandt, Deborah. (1998) Sponsors of literacy. College Composition and
Communication 49.2, 165-185.
7. Burnett, Rebecca, E. (2001) “Locating and Recording Information” in Rebecca E.
Burnett's Technical Communication (pp. 164-195).
8. Johnson-Sheehan, Richard (2007). “Starting Your Career” in Richard Johnson-
Sheehan's Technical Communication Today (2nd ed.) (pp. 388-402). New York:
Longman.
9. Business Correspondence and Report Writing by R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan,
Third Edition (2002); Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
10. Technical Communication: Principles and Practices by M. Raman and S. Sharma
(Indian edition; 2004); Publisher: Oxford University Press.
133
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(R11HAS1103) MANAGEMENT SCIENCE
Course Prerequisites: Economics and Financial Accounting
Course Objectives:
 Understand the principles, functions, theories and practices of different
management areas and to provide them with practical exposure to cases of
success/failure in business
 Expose with a systematic and critical understanding of organizational theory,
structures and design
 Comprehend conceptual models of strategic management and to familiarize with
the tools of operations and project management
 Understand the role of human relations in the management of operations and to
provide basic insights into contemporary management practices
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
 Function effectively in multidisciplinary teams to accomplish a common goal of
organizations.
 Apply theories to improve the practice of management.
 Appreciate the management challenges associated with high levels of change in
the organizations.
 Develop global vision and management skills at both a strategic level and
interpersonal level.
UNIT I
Introduction to management
Concepts of management - nature, importance, and functions of management; Taylor’s
scientific management theory; Fayol’s principles of management; Mayo’s Hawthorne
experiments; Maslow’s theory of human needs; Douglas McGregor’s theory X and theory Y;
Herzberg’s two-factor theory of motivation; System and contingency approach to
management; Planning – meaning, significance, and types of plans; Decision making and
steps in decision making process; Leadership styles; Social responsibilities of management.
Organizing - Meaning, and features; Process of organization; Principles of organization;
Elements of organization; Organization chart; Span of control - Graicunas formulae;
Centralisation and decentralization; Types of mechanistic and organic structures of
organisation - line organization, line and staff organization, functional organization,
134
committee organization, matrix organization, virtual organisation, cellular organisation, team
structure, boundaryless organization, inverted pyramid structure, and lean and flat
organization structure; Their merits, demerits and suitability.
UNIT II
Human resources management
Concepts of HRM;
Basic functions of HR manager - human resource planning (definition; objectives; process),
recruitment (definition; sources; techniques), selection (definition; process), induction and
orientation, training and development (definition; need; methods), employee exit process,
employee relations management, employee compensation and benefits administration, job
evaluation (objectives; process; methods), and performance appraisals (objectives; process;
methods).
UNIT III
Strategic management
Mission; Goals; Objectives; Policy; Strategy; Programmes; Elements of corporate planning
process - environmental scanning; value chain analysis, BCG matrix, generic strategy
alternatives, SWOT analysis, and steps in strategy formulation and implementation; Balance
score card; Capability maturity model (CMM)/ People capability maturity model (PCMM).
UNIT IV
Operations management
Plant location; Types of plant layout; Methods of production – job, batch, and mass
production; Work study-basic procedure involved in method study and work measurement.
Materials management
Objectives; Need for inventory control; EOQ, ABC Analysis; Purchase procedure; Value
analysis; JIT, Six sigma; TQM; Supply chain management; Stores management and stores
records.
Marketing
Functions of marketing; Marketing mix, and marketing strategies based on product life cycle;
Channels of distribution.
UNIT V
Project management – network analysis
Network analysis; Programme evaluation review technique - PERT (probability of
completing the project within given time); Critical path method - CPM (Identifying critical
path); Project cost analysis; Project crashing; Simple problems.
135
TEXT BOOKS
1. Management Science by Aryasri; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill, 2009.
2. Management by James Arthur, Finch Stoner, R. Edward Freeman, and Daniel R.
Gilbert 6th Ed; Publisher: Pearson Education/ Prentice Hall.
3. Principles and Practice of Management - L.M. Prasad; Publisher: Sultan Chand
Publications, New Delhi.
REFERENCE
1. Principles of Marketing: A South Asian Perspective by Kotler Philip, Gary Armstrong,
Prafulla Y. Agnihotri, and Eshan ul Haque , 2010, 13th Edition, Publisher: Pearson
Education/ Prentice Hall of India.
2. A Handbook of Human Resource Management Practice by Michael Armstrong, 2010;
Publisher: Kogan Page Publishers.
3. Quantitative Techniques in Management by N.D. Vohra, 4th edition, 2010; Publisher:
Tata McGraw Hill.
4. Operations Management: Theory and Practice by B. Mahadevan, 2010; Publisher:
Pearson Education.
5. Strategic Management by V.S.P.Rao and V.Hari Krishna, 2010; Publisher: Excel
Books.
136
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective I 4 0 4
(R11MED1123) MECHANICAL VIBRATIONS
Course Prerequisites: Design of Machine Members, Engineering Mechanics, Maths
Course Objectives:
 Understand and appreciate the importance of vibrations in mechanical design of
machine parts that operate in vibratory conditions.
 Develop linear vibratory models of dynamic systems with changing complexities
(SDOF, MDOF).
 Formulate the differential equations of motion of vibratory systems.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Apply vibration analysis in mechanical design of machine parts that operate in
vibratory conditions.
 Evaluate at linear mathematical models of real life engineering systems.
 Analyze the mathematical model of linear vibratory system to determine its
response.
 Analyze vibration of continuous system under various conditions.
UNIT I
Introduction to vibrations;
Concepts from vibrations
Review of Mechanics fundamentals; Moment of a force and angular momentum; Work and
energy; Dynamics of systems of particles; Dynamics of rigid bodies – pure translation
relative to the inertial space, pure rotation about a fixed point, and general planar motion
referred to the mass center; Kinetic energy of rigid bodies in planar motion – pure translation
relative to the inertial space, pure rotation about a fixed point, and general planar motion
referred to the mass center; Characteristics of discrete system components; Equivalent
springs; Dampers and masses; Modeling of mechanical systems; System differential
equations of motion; Nature of excitations; System and response characteristics - the
superposition principle; Vibration about equilibrium points.
UNIT II
Response of single-degree-of-freedom systems to initial excitations
Undamped single-degree-of-freedom systems - harmonic oscillator; Viscously damped
single-degree-of-freedom systems; Measurement of damping; Coulomb damping - dry
friction; Introduction to plotting the response to initial excitations by MATLAB.
137
UNIT III
Response of single-degree-of- freedom systems to harmonic and periodic excitations
Response of single-degree-of- freedom systems to harmonic excitations; Frequency
response plots; Systems with rotating unbalanced masses; Whirling of rotating shafts;
Harmonic motion of the base; Vibration isolation; Vibration measuring instruments –
accelerometers - high frequency instruments, and Seismometers-low frequency
instruments; Energy dissipation - structural damping.
UNIT IV
Response of single-degree-of-freedom systems to nonperiodic excitations
The unit impulse - impulse response; The unit step function - step response; The unit ramp
function - ramp response; Response to arbitrary excitations - the convolution integral; Shock
spectrum; System response by the Laplace transformation method - transfer function;
General system response; Response by the state transition matrix.
UNIT V
Two – degree – of - freedom systems
System configuration; The equation of motion of two – degree – of - freedom systems;
Free vibration of undamped systems - natural modes; Response to initial excitations;
Coordinate transformations - coupling; Orthogonality of modes - natural coordinates; Beat
phenomenon; Response of two–degree–of-freedom systems to harmonic excitations;
Undamped vibration absorbers.
TEXT BOOK
Fundamentals of Vibrations by Leonard Meirovitch; Publisher: McGraw Hill
REFERENCE
1. Mechanical Vibrations by Tse and Morse
2. Vibration problems in Engineering by S.P.Timoshenko
3. Mechanical Vibrations by S.Graham Kelly; Publisher: Schaum’s Outline, TMH.
138
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective I 4 0 4
(R11MED1124) AUTOMATION IN MANUFACTURING
Course Prerequisites: Manufacturing Technology
Course Objectives:
 To understand the characteristics, phases in different types of automation
technologies
 To assess the importance of several components needed to build automated
industries
 To analyze the performance of material handling systems used in automation
 To understand different kinds of assembly models in automation and make
effective line balancing solutions
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Evaluate the product and process facilities in Fixed, Programmable and Flexible
Automation Technologies
 Evaluate the essential components in industries and their usage in their
respective functionality.
 Apply the measures of performance of Automated Guided Vehicle’s, Conveyor’s
and Storage Systems for real time scenarios.
 Apply the heuristics of Line Balancing Algorithms to single model and mixed
model assembly lines and thereby finding the solutions of several automated
lines.
UNIT I
Introduction
Production systems; Automation in production systems; Manual labor in production
systems; Automation principles and strategies.
Manufacturing operations
Manufacturing industries and products; Manufacturing operations; Product facilities;
Product/production relationships; Lean production.
Manufacturing models and metrics
Mathematical models of production performance; Manufacturing costs.
AUTOMATION AND CONTROL TECHNOLOGIES
UNIT II
Introduction to automation
Basic elements of an automated system; Advanced automation functions; Levels of
automation.
139
Industrial control systems
Process industries versus discrete manufacturing industries; Continuous versus discrete
control; Computer process control.
Hardware components for automation and process control
Sensors; Actuators; Analog-to-digital converters; Digital-to-Analog converters; Input / Output
devices for discrete data.
MATERIAL HANDLING AND IDENTIFICATION TECHNOLOGIES
UNIT III
Material transport systems
Introduction to material handling equipment; Material transport equipment; Analysis of
material transport systems.
Storage systems
Storage system performance and storage location strategies; Conventional storage
methods and equipment; Automated storage systems; Engineering analysis of storage
systems.
Automatic identification and data capture
Overview of automatic identification methods; Bar code technology; Radio frequency
identification; Other AIDC Technologies
MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS
UNIT IV
Introduction to manufacturing systems
Components of a manufacturing system; Classification of manufacturing systems; Overview
of the classification scheme;
Single-station manufacturing cells
Single station manned workstations; Single station automated cells; Applications single
station cells; Analysis of single station cells.
Manual assembly lines
Fundamentals of manual assembly lines; Analysis of single model assembly lines; Line
balancing algorithms; Mixed model assembly lines; Workstation considerations.
Other considerations in assembly line design
Alternative assembly systems.
UNIT V
Automated production lines
Fundamentals of automated production lines; Applications of automated production lines;
Analysis of transfer lines.
Automated assembly systems
Fundamentals of automated assembly systems; Quantitative analysis of assembly systems.
TEXT BOOK
Automation, Production Systems and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing by Mikell P.
Groover; Publisher: Pearson/ Prentice Hall.
140
REFERENCE
1. Computer Aided Manufacturing by Tien-Chien Chang, Richard A.Wysk and Hsu-Pin
Wang; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Automation by W.Buekinsham.
141
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective I 4 0 4
(R11MED1125) GAS DYNAMICS
Course Prerequisites: Thermodynamics, Fluid Mechanics
Course Objectives:
 Impart the knowledge on supersonic flow and compressible flow
 Understand about nozzles and diffusers
 Impart the basic knowledge on shock waves
 Understand about one dimensional and two dimensional compressible flows
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Able to understand the supersonic flow and compressible flow.
 Correlate the fundamentals equations in nozzles and diffusers.
 Develop correlations in normal shock waves and understand the basic concept in
oblique shock waves.
 understand one dimensional and two dimensional compressible flows.
UNIT I
Some Preliminary Thoughts
Introduction to gas dynamics, Compressibility; Supersonic flow; Speed of sound;
Temperature rise; Mach angle;
Basic equations of compressible flow
Thermodynamics of fluid flow; First law of thermodynamics (entropy equation); The second
law of thermodynamics; Thermal and calorical properties; The perfect gas;
Wave propagation
Introduction; Wave propagation; Velocity of sound; Subsonic and supersonic flow.
UNIT II
Steady one-dimensional flow
Introduction; Fundamental equations; Discharge from a reservoir; Streamtube area-Velocity
relation; De Laval nozzle; Diffusers; Dynamic head measurement in compressible flow;
Pressure coefficient.
142
UNIT III
Normal shock waves
Introduction; Equations of motion for a normal shock wave; The normal shock relations for a
perfect gas; Change of stagnation or total pressure across the shock; Hugoniot equation;
The propagating shock wave; Reflected shock wave; Centred expansion wave; Shock tube.
Oblique shock and expansion waves
Introduction; Oblique shock relations; Relation between b and q; Shock polar; Supersonic
flow over a wedge; Weak oblique shocks; Supersonic compression; Supersonic expansion
by turning; The prandtl-meyer function; Simple and nonsimple regions; Overview of
Reflection and intersection of shocks and expansion waves;
UNIT IV
Potential equation for compressible flows
Introduction; Crocco’s theorem; The general potential equation for Three-Dimensional flow;
Linearisation of the potential equation; Potential equation for bodies of revolution; Boundary
conditions; Pressure coefficient.
Overview of similarity rule
UNIT V
Two-dimensional compressible flows
Introduction; General linear solution of supersonic flow; Flow along a wave-shaped wall.
Prandtl-Meyer flow
Introduction; Thermodynamic considerations; Prandtl-Meyer expansion fan; Reflections.
Flow with friction and heat transfer
Introduction; Flow in Constant Area Duct with Friction; Adiabatic, Constant-area flow of a
perfect gas; Flow with heating or cooling in ducts.
TEXT BOOK
Gas Dynamics by Rathakrishnan; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
REFERENCE
1. Fundamentals of Compressible Flow by S.M.Yahya; Publisher: New Age International.
2. Gas Dynamics by Cambell and Jennings; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
3. Gas Dynamics by H.W.Lipman and A.Rashkho; Publisher: John Wiley.
143
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective I 4 0 4
(R11MED1126) ADVANCED MECHANISM DESIGN
Course Prerequisites: Kinematics of Machinery
Course Objectives:
 Impart the knowledge on four bar mechanisms and degrees of freedom
 Understand about kinematic synthesis
 Understand about Freudenstein’s equation for three-point function generation and
Loop-closure-equation technique
 Impart the knowledge on motion generation procedure
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 To understand four bar mechanisms and degrees of freedom.
 understand and apply the various tasks of kinematic synthesis
 To apply Freudenstein’s equation for three-point function generation and Loop-
closure-equation technique;
 Motion generation with four and five prescribed positions; and knows the Solution
procedure, Computer program for four prescribed precision points
UNIT I
Introduction to kinematics and mechanisms
Introduction; Motion; The four-bar linkage; The science of relative motion; Kinematic
diagrams; Six-bar chains; Degrees of freedom; Analysis versus synthesis.
UNIT II
Introduction to kinematic synthesis: graphical and linear analytical methods
Introduction; Tasks of kinematic synthesis; Number synthesis - the associated linkage
concept; Tools of dimensional synthesis; Graphical synthesis-motion generation - two
prescribed positions; Graphical synthesis - motion generation - three prescribed positions;
Graphical synthesis for path generation - three prescribed positions; Path generation with
prescribed timing - three prescribed positions.
UNIT III
(Contd…) Introduction to kinematic synthesis: graphical and linear analytical methods
Graphical synthesis for path generation (without prescribed timing) - four positions; Function
generator - three precision points; The overlay method; Analytical synthesis techniques;
Complex number modeling in kinematic synthesis; The dyad or standard form; Number of
prescribed positions versus number of free choices; Three prescribed positions for motion,
path and function generation.
144
UNIT IV
(Contd…) Introduction to kinematic synthesis: graphical and linear analytical methods
Three–precision-point synthesis program for four–bar linkages; Three–precision-point
synthesis - analytical versus graphical; Extension of three-precision-point synthesis to
multiloop mechanisms; Circle-point and center–point circles; Ground-pivot specification;
Freudenstein’s equation for three-point function generation; Loop-closure-equation
technique; Order synthesis - four-bar function generation.
UNIT V
Kinematic synthesis of linkages - advanced topics
Introduction; Motion generation with four prescribed positions; Solution procedure for four
prescribed positions; Computer program for four prescribed precision points; Four
prescribed motion-generation positions - superposition of two three-precision-point cases;
Special cases of four-position synthesis; Motion generation - five positions; Solution
procedure for five prescribed positions.
TEXT BOOK
Advanced Mechanism Design: Analysis and Synthesis (Volume 2) by George N. Sandor
and Arthur G. Erdman; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
REFERENCE
1. Machines and Mechanisms by Pennock, Uickker, and Shigley
2. Design of Machinery by R.L.Norton
145
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective I 4 0 4
(R11EIE1127) ADVANCED INSTRUMENTATION AND CONTROL SYSTEMS
Course Prerequisites: Metrology, Instrumentation
Course Objectives:
 To impart the knowledge on strain gauges
 Understand about vibration and virtual instrumentation
 Impart the knowledge on control systems
 Understand about signal flow graphs and physical systems
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Apply the knowledge on strain gauges
 Apply the knowledge on vibration and virtual instrumentation
 Apply the knowledge on control systems
 Apply the knowledge on signal graphs and physical systems
INSTRUMENTATION PART- MECHANICAL MEASUREMENTS
UNIT I
Measurement of length
Introduction; The nature of length; Derived measurements; Standards and calibration of
length; Practice of length measurement for industrial use; Automatic gauging systems.
Measurement of strain
Strain; Bonded resistance strain gauges; Gauge characteristics; Installation; Circuits for
strain gauges; Vibrating wire strain gauge; Capacitive strain gauges; Overview of survey of
whole surfaces; Photo-elasticity.
Measurement of level and volume
Introduction; Practice of level measurement; Calibration of level-measuring systems;
Overview of methods providing full-range level measurement; Overview of methods
providing short-range detection.
UNIT II
Vibration
Introduction; Amplitude calibration; Sensor practice; Literature.
Measurement of force
Basic concepts; Force measurement methods; Lever-balance methods; Force-balance
methods; Hydraulic pressure measurement; Acceleration measurement; Elastic elements;
Further developments.
Brief introduction to measurements of density, pressure, and vacuum.
146
INSTRUMENTATION PART - ELECTRICAL AND RADIATION MEASUREMENTS
Non-destructive testing
Introduction; Visual examination; Surface-inspection methods; Ultrasonics; Radiography;
Underwater non-destructive testing; Developments; Certification of personnel.
Electrical, optical and nucleonic measurements
Brief introduction to electrical, optical, and noise measurements and nucleonic instrument
technology.
INSTRUMENTATION PART- INSTRUMENTATION SYSTEMS
UNIT III
Virtual instrumentation
Definition; Parts of the system; Microsoft windows; Traditional and graphical programming
languages; Personal computers for data acquisition and instrument control; Register-and
message-based programming and SCPI; Instrument drivers; The VXI bus; DSP hardware;
Features of DSP hardware and software; Overview of joint-time frequency analysis.
CONTROL SYSTEMS
Introduction to control systems
Introduction - basic components of a control system, control-system applications, open-loop
control systems (nonfeed-back systems), and closed-loop control systems (feedback control
systems); Feedback and its effects - effect of feedback on overall gain, effect of feedback on
stability, and effect of feedback on external disturbance or noise; Types of feedback control
systems - linear versus nonlinear control systems, and time-invariant versus time-varying
systems; Overview of mathematical foundation.
UNIT IV
Block diagrams and signal-flow-graphs
Block diagram - block diagrams of control systems, and block diagrams and transfer
functions of multivariable systems; Signal-flow graphs (SFGs) - basic elements of an SFG,
summary of the basic properties of SFG, definitions of SFG terms, SFG algebra, SFG of a
feedback control system, gain formula for SFG, application of the gain formula between
output nodes and noninput nodes, and application of the gain formula to block diagrams;
State diagram - from differential equations to state diagram, from state diagram to transfer
function, and “from state diagram to state and output equations”; MATLAB tools and case
studies.
UNIT V
Modeling of physical systems
Introduction; Modeling of electrical networks; Modeling of mechanical systems elements -
translational motion, rotational motion, conversion between translational and rotational
motions, gear trains, and backlash and dead zone (nonlinear characteristics); Equations of
mechanical systems; Sensors and encoders in control systems – potentiometer,
tachometers, and incremental encoder; DC motors in control systems - basic operational
principles of DC motors, basic classifications of PM DC motors, and mathematical modeling
of PM DC motors; Linearization of nonlinear systems; Systems with transportation lags (time
147
delays) - approximation of the time-delay function by rational functions; A sun-seeker
system - coordinate system, error discriminator, Op-Amp, servoamplifier, tachometer, and
DC motor; MATLAB tools and case studies.
TEXT BOOK
For instrumentation part:
1. INSTRUMENTATION by B.E. Noltingk (Part Numbers 1, 3, and 4); Publisher:
Butterworth-Heinemann 1995
(Alternatively available as separate books, Jones' Instrument Technology - Volume 1:
Mechanical Measurements; Jones' Instrument Technology - Volume 3: Electrical and
Radiation Measurements; Jones' Instrument Technology - Volume 4: Instrumentation
Systems by Ernest Beachcroft Jones, and B.E.Noltingk; Publisher: Butterworths
1985/1987).
For control systems part:
2. Automatic Control Systems by Benzamin C. Kuo; Publisher: Wiley
148
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective I 4 0 4
(R11MED1127) CNC TECHNOLOGY
Course Prerequisites: Machine Tools and Computer Integrated Manufacturing
Course Objectives:
 To able to write NC Part Programming by using the concepts of NC & CNC
process
 To identity and select the equipment necessary for CNC machines
 To understand the various systems used in CNC machines
 To understand the integration of Industrial robots with CNC machines in
Computer Integrated Manufacturing
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Understand the concept of NC and CNC machines and NC part programming.
 Able to know about system devices and control loops of CNC machines
 know about the adaptive systems in CNC machines
 understand the concepts of Industrial robots and CIM
UNIT I
Introduction
Basic concepts in manufacturing systems; Fundamentals of numerical control; Advantages
of NC systems; Classification of NC systems – point-to-point and contouring, NC and CNC,
incremental and absolute systems, and open – loop and closed-loop systems; The punched
tape.
Features of NC machine tools
Fundamentals of machining; Design considerations of NC machine tools; Methods of
improving machine accuracy – tool deflection and chatter, leadscrews, and thermal
deformations; Increasing productivity with NC machines; Machining centers; MCU functions
– mode selections, compensations and override, readout displays, and CNC controllers.
NC part programming
Introduction; Manual programming – basic concepts, tape format, contour programming;
Computer aided programming – general information, and postprocessors; APT
programming – general description, geometric expressions, motion statements, additional
APT statements, an example of APT programming; Other programming systems –
Description of compact II, and additional languages.
UNIT II
System devices
Drives – hydraulic systems, direct-current motors, stepping motors, and alternate-current
motors; Feedback devices – encoders, resolvers, inductosyn, and tachometers; Counting
149
devices – flip-flops, counters, decoders; Digital-to-analog converters – weighted resistor
network, and resistor ladder network.
UNIT III
Interpolators for manufacturing systems
DDA integrator – principal of operation, and exponential deceleration; DDA hardware
interpolator – linear interpolator, circular interpolator, and complete interpolator; CNC
software interpolator; Software DDA interpolator; Reference-word CNC interpolators – the
concept of reference-word interpolators, Tustin method, and improved Tustin method.
Control loops of NC systems
Introduction; Control point-to-point systems – incremental open-loop control, incremental
closed-loop control, and absolute closed-loop circuit; Control loops in contouring systems –
principal operation, mathematical analysis, design for constant input frequency, position
control, and operation of a two axis system.
UNIT IV
Computerized numerical control
CNC concepts; Advantages of CNC; The digital computer – principal structure, computer
memory, and input and output; The reference-pulse technique; Sampled-data technique –
design principles, optimization for circular motion, and summary of design considerations,
Microcomputers in CNC – the microprocessor, and microprocessors in CNC systems,
UNIT V
Adaptive control systems
Introduction; Adaptive control with optimization; Adaptive control with constraints – basic
concepts, and ACC system for turning; Variable-gain AC systems – the stability problem,
the estimator algorithm, and variable-gain algorithm; Adaptive control of grinding – grinding
model, optimization strategy, and design of adaptive control for grinding; Cost analysis in
machining.
Overview of Industrial robots
Overview of Computer-integrated manufacturing systems
TEXT BOOK
Computer Control of Manufacturing Systems by Yoram Koren; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill/
McGraw Hill.
150
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 4 0 4
(R11MED1128) THEORY OF ELASTICITY AND PLASTICTY
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Mechanics, Strength of Materials
Course Objectives:
 Impart the knowledge on mohr’s circles
 Understand about two dimensional problems in rectangular coordinates
 Understand about two dimensional problems in polar coordinates
 Impart the knowledge on combined stresses
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Able to construct the Mohr’s circles.
 Analyze the two dimensional problems in rectangular coordinates.
 Analyze the two dimensional problems in polar coordinates
 Understand the experimental study of plastic deformations under combined
stresses
UNIT I
Introduction
Elasticity; Stress; Notation for forces and stresses; Components of stress; Components of
strain; Hooke’s law; Index notation; Plane stress; Plane strain; Stress at a point; Strain at a
point; Measurement of surface strains; Construction of Mohr strain circle for strain rosette;
Differential equations of equilibrium; Boundary conditions; Compatibility equations; Stress
functions.
UNIT II
Two-dimensional problems in rectangular coordinates
Solution by polynomials; End effects; Saint–Venant’s principle; Determination of
displacements; Bending of a cantilever loaded at the end; Bending of a beam by uniform
load, Other cases of continuously loaded beams; Solution of the two dimensional problems
in the form of a Fourier series; Other applications of Fourier series - Gravity loading; End
effects - Eigen solutions.
UNIT III
Two dimensional problems in polar coordinates
General equations in polar coordinates; Stress distribution symmetrical about an axis; Pure
bending of curved bars; Strain components in polar coordinates; Displacements for
symmetrical stress distributions; Rotating disks; Bending of a curved bar by a force at the
end; Edge dislocation; The effect of circular holes on stress distributions in plates.
151
UNIT IV
(contd) Two dimensional problems in polar coordinates
Concentrated force at a point of a straight boundary; Any vertical loading of a straight
boundary; Force acting on the end of a wedge; Bending couple acting on the end of a
wedge, Concentrated force acting on a beam; Stresses in a circular disk; Force at a point of
an infinite plate; Generalized solution of the two-dimensional problem in polar coordinates;
Applications of the generalized solution in polar coordinates; A wedge loaded along the
faces; Eigen solutions for wedges and notches.
UNIT V
Equations of plastic state
On the mechanical properties of solids - change in density and change in shape of a solid,
elastic and plastic deformation, strain hardening, strain anisotropy, effect of strain rate, and
creep; On the experimental study of plastic deformations under combined stresses - simple
and complex loading – on experiments, and simple and complex loading; On yield
conditions - yield surface and yield curve; The constant maximum shearing stress condition
(Tresca-Saint Venant condition); The constant shearing stress intensity condition (Von
Mises condition); On strain hardening conditions - loading surface - loading and unloading,
loading surface, and unloading; Conditions of isotropic strain hardening - simple variant of
the condition of isotropic strain hardening, “unique curve” hypothesis, energy condition of
strain hardening, and Odquist’s condition; Theory of plastic flow.
TEXT BOOK
For elasticity part:
Theory of Elasticity by S.P. Timoshenko and J.N. Goodier; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
For plasticity part:
Fundamentals of Theory of Plasticity by L.M.Kachanov; Publisher: Mir Publisher.
152
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 4 0 4
(R11MED1129) ROBOTICS
Course Prerequisites: Kinematics of Machines, Mathematics
Course Objectives:
 Understand the knowledge on manipulators
 Understand about feedback components and sensors
 Impart the knowledge on programming languages
 Understand about applications of robots
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Evaluate the positions, angles of the manipulators given the required motion analysis,
kinematics, dynamics and trajectory planning concepts.
 Analyze the different types of feedback components and sensors used in robots.
 Create and analyze the program for a robot using the programming languages.
 Analyze the applications of robots in manufacturing by studying different work cells of
the robots.
UNIT I
Introduction
Brief history; Types of robots; Technology of robots; Basic principles in robotics; Notation;
Symbolic computation and numerical analysis.
Mathematical representation of robots
Introduction; Position and orientation of a rigid body – some properties of rotation matrices,
successive rotations of a rigid body, representation of orientation by three angles, and other
representations of orientation; Transformation between coordinate systems-homogeneous
transformation; properties of BA[T]; Representation of joints-rotary joint, prismatic joint, screw
joint, cylindrical joint, spherical joint, spherical-spherical joint pair, and other joints;
Representation of links using Denavit-Hartenberg – link parameters for intermediate links,
and first and last links; Link transformation matrices-applications-the planar 3R manipulator,
the puma 560 manipulator, and a scara manipulator, the planar four-bar mechanism, a
three-DOF parallel manipulator; Homogeneous coordinates, lines, screws and twists.
153
UNIT II
Kinematics of serial manipulators
Introduction; Degrees of freedom of a manipulator; Direct kinematics of serial manipulators -
the planar 3R manipulator, the PUMA 560 manipulator; and a SCARA manipulator; Inverse
kinematics of serial manipulators - the planar 3R manipulator, and the PUMA 560
manipulator; Manipulator with non-intersecting wrist; Inverse kinematics of a general 6R
robot; Inverse kinematics for manipulators with n<6; Inverse kinematics of redundant
manipulators; Solution methods for non-linear equations.
UNIT III
Kinematics of parallel manipulators
Introduction; Degrees of freedom; Loop-closure constraint equations; Direct kinematics of
parallel manipulators - the planar four-bar mechanism, a three-DOF parallel manipulator,
and a six-DOF parallel manipulator; Direct kinematics of Stewart-Gough platform; Mobility of
parallel manipulators - the planar four-bar mechanism, and a three-DOF parallel
manipulator; Inverse kinematics of parallel manipulators - a six-DOF hybrid manipulator, and
the Stewart platform.
Velocity analysis and statics of manipulators
Introduction; Linear and angular velocities of a rigid body; Linear and angular velocities of
links in serial manipulators - the planar 3R manipulator; Serial manipulator Jacobian;
Parallel manipulator Jacobians - the planar four-bar mechanism and a three-DOF parallel
manipulator, Statics of serial manipulators - the planar 3R manipulator; Statics of parallel
manipulators.
UNIT IV
Dynamics of manipulators
Introduction; Inertia of a link; The Lagrangian formulation - equations of motion of a planar
2R manipulator, and equations of motion of a planar four-bar mechanism; Dynamic
equations in cartesian space; Inverse dynamics of manipulators - inverse dynamics of
planar 2R manipulator; Simulation of equations of motion - simulation of a planar 2R
manipulator, and simulation of a planar four-bar mechanism.
Trajectory planning and generation - Introduction; Joint space schemes - a cubic trajectory;
Joint space schemes with via points - a cubic trajectory with a via point, and a cubic
trajectory with matching velocity, and acceleration at a via point; Cartesian space schemes-
cartesian straight line motion, cartesian circular motion, and trajectory planning for
orientation; Additional issues;
154
UNIT V
Position and force control of manipulators
Introduction; Feedback control of a single-link manipulator – usefulness of feedback, first-
order system, second-order system, PID control of a single-link manipulator, and digital
control of a single-link manipulator; PID control of a multi-link manipulator; Non-linear control
of manipulators-time required to compute the model; Lack of knowledge of model
parameters; Simulation and experimental results - simulation results, and experimental
results; Non-linear control of constrained and parallel manipulators; Cartesian control of
manipulators; Force control of manipulators - Force control of a single mass, and
partitioning a task for force and position control- case study: peg-in-hole assembly.
Overview of robot actuators and feedback components
TEXT BOOK
Robotics: Fundamental Concepts and Analysis by Ashitava Ghosal; Publisher: Oxford
University Press.
REFERENCE
1. Robot Dynamics and Control by M.W.Sponge and M.Vidyasagar; Publisher: John
Wiley.
2. Introduction to Robotic Mechanics and Control by JJ Craig; Publisher: Pearson
education.
3. Robotics by K.S.Fu; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
4. Industrial Robotics by M.P.Groover; Publisher: Pearson Education.
155
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 4 0 4
(R11MED1130) COMPOSITE MATERIALS
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics, Chemistry and Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives:
 Understand composite materials and their properties, relationship between them
and manufacturing of different types.
 Understand the principles of material science applied to composite materials.
 Study the equations to analyze problems by making good assumptions and learn
systematic engineering method to solve practical composite mechanics problems.
 Impart the knowledge on strength of composites
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Apply fundamental knowledge of mathematics to modeling and analysis of
composite materials.
 Analyze the manufacturing methods of various composite materials.
 Analyze the failure of composites.
 Synthesize and use right composite materials for the right component
UNIT I
General introduction
Types of composite material; Design of composite materials; The concept of load transfer.
Fibres and matrices
Reinforcements - carbon fibres, glass fibres, organic fibres, silicon carbide, alumina, and
aluminiosilicates; The strength of reinforcements - thermal stability, compressive strength,
fibre fracture and flexibility, and a statical treatment of fibre strength; Matrices - polymer
matrices, metal matrices, and ceramic matrices.
UNIT II
Fibre architecture
General considerations - volume fraction and weight fraction, fibre packing arrangements,
and clustering of fibres and particles; Long fibres - laminates, woven, braided and knitted
fibre arrays, and characterization of fibre orientations in a plane; Short fibre - fibre
orientation distributions in three dimensions, and fibre length distributions; Voids - fibre
orientation during processing.
UNIT III
Elastic deformation of long-fibre composites
Axial stiffness; Transverse stiffness, shear stiffness, Poisson contraction effects.
156
Elastic deformation of laminates
Elastic deformation of anisotropic materials - Hook’s law, and effects of symmetry; Off-axis
elastic constants of laminae - calculation procedure, and engineering constants; Elastic
deformation of laminates - loading of a stack of plies, and predicted behavior; Stresses and
distortions - balanced laminates, stresses in individual plies of a laminate, coupling
stresses, and symmetric laminates;
UNIT IV
Stresses and strains in short-fibre composites
The shear lag model - stresses and strain distributions, the stress transfer length, transfer of
normal stress across fibre ends, prediction of stiffness, and onset of inelastic behavior; The
Eshelby method - a misfitting ellipsoid, the equivalent homogeneous ellipsoid, the
background stress, and composite stiffness.
UNIT V
The interface region
Bonding mechanisms - adsorption and wetting, interdiffusion, and chemical reaction,
electrostatic attraction, mechanical keying, and residual stresses.
Strength of composites
Failure modes of long-fibre composites - axial tensile failure, transverse tensile failure,
shear failure, and failure in compression; Failure of laminae under off-axis loads - maximum
stress criterion, other failure criteria, and experimental data for single laminae; Strength of
laminates - tensile cracking, interlaminar stresses, and edge effects.
TEXT BOOK
An Introduction to Composite Materials by D.Hull and T.W. Clyne; Publisher: Cambridge
University Press.
REFERENCE
1. Composite Materials Science and Engineering by K.K.Chawla; Publisher: Springer,
2009.
2. Mechanics of Composite Materials by R.M.Jones; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
3. Analysis and performance of Fibre Composites by B.D.Agarwal, L.J.Broutman, and
K.Chandrasekhara; Publisher: John Wiley.
157
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 4 0 4
(R11MED1131) POWER PLANT ENGINEERING
Course Prerequisites: Thermal Engineering and Basic Electrical Engineering
Course Objectives:
 Understand the layout of the different types of Power plants.
 Knowledge on various components in the power plants.
 Understand the power plant economics and power distribution.
 Impart the knowledge on power distribution
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Analyzing the working principal of the power plant , scope for future expansion
 Understanding the concept on various equipments used in the plant
 Evaluating the power plant economics and environmental consideration
 Applying the Knowledge to the power distribution and load factor importance
UNIT I
Introduction
Energy and power; Background of power study; Working processes; The power age; Power
plant engineering and design; Drawings; Specifications; Correspondence; Electric power
systems.
The variable load problem
Industrial production and power generation compared; Ideal and realized load curves;
Terms and factors; Effect of variable load on power plant design; Effect of variable load on
power plant operation; Methods of meeting the load.
UNIT II
Power plant economics
Source of income; Effect of plant type on costs; Rates; Fixed element; Energy element;
Customer element; The investor’s profit; Depreciation and replacement; Theory of rates;
Making up rate structures.
Fuels and combustion
Fuels, gas and oil; Internal combustion engine fuel; Furnace fuel oil; Coal; Fuel tests for
heating value; Proximate analysis; Ash and refuse analyses; Combustion; Illustrative
examples in combustion; Approximations and short-cuts; smoke.
158
UNIT III
Overview of Internal combustion engine power plant
Overview of gas turbine power plant
Stationary gas turbine; Constant pressure combustion cycle; The simple gas turbine plant;
Thermal refinement of the gas turbine cycle; Field for gas turbine power.
Hydro Power
Introduction; Principles; Assessing the resource for small installations; Hydrological cycle/
Flow measurement; Drainage area characteristics; Hydrographs; Storage and pondage;
classification of dams and spillways; Hydro projects and power plant; Social and
environmental aspects.
UNIT IV
Energy flow in the steam power plant
The steam power plant; Functional relation of equipment; Production of heat energy;
Thermal level; Heat flow; Conduction; Surface convection; Mean temperature difference;
Convective heat transfer from products of combustion; Convective heat transfer between
condensing steam and water; Surface convection calculations; Radiation; Apportionment of
heating surface.
Steam generators
Components; Design criteria; Boiler types; Representative fire-tube boiler; Representative
water-tube boilers; Water walls; Boiler installation; Furnace; Superheat; Boiler accessories
and trim; Combustion equipment; Spreader stoker; Conveyor stoker; Underfeed stoker; Coal
burners; Gas and oil burners; Operation and performance; Heat balance of a steam
generator.
UNIT V
The gas loop
Function of the gas loop; Coal storage; Coal conveyors; Pulverized coal systems; Oil and
gas supply systems; Flue gas cleaning; Ash handling; Air preheater; Draft; Gas conduits;
Draft by fans; Draft by chimneys; Control of gas loop flows; Combustion control equipment.
Overview of nuclear power plant.
TEXT BOOK
Power Plant Engineering by Frederick T. Morse; Publisher: East West Publishing (EWP).
REFERENCE
1. Power Plant Engineering by P.K.Nag; Publisher: TMH
2. A Course in Power Plant Engineering by S.C.Aurora and S.Domkundwar
159
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 4 0 4
(R11MED1132) ADVANCED MACHINE DESIGN
Course Prerequisites: Design of Machine Elements
Course Objectives:
 Understand the modern integrated and modularized products
 Understand about static failure theories
 Impart the knowledge on fatigue failure theories
 Understand the knowledge on surface failure
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Plan and lead product development work of modern integrated and modularized
products.
 Design and detail both simple products as well as subsystems of more
complicated mechanical products from idea to manufacturing drawings and
prototype.
 Analyze and dimension both simple products as well as subsystems of more
complicated mechanical products in an engineering manner.
 Develop and estimate loads for both simple products as well as subsystems of
more complicated mechanical products, as a basis for dimensioning of structure
elements as well as selection of machine elements and materials.
UNIT I
Load determination
Introduction; Loading classes; Free-body diagrams; Loads analysis – three dimensional
analysis, two dimensional analysis, and static load analysis; Two-dimensional static loading
case studies – case study 1A – bicycle break lever loading analysis, case study 2A – hand
operated crimping – tool loading analysis, case study 3A – automobile scissors – jack
loading analysis; Three-Dimensional, static loading case study – case study 4A – bicycle
break arm loading analysis; Dynamic loading case study – case study 5A – four bar linkage
loading analysis; Vibration loading – natural frequency, dynamic forces, and case study 5b –
four bar linkage dynamic loading measurement; Impact loading – energy method; Beam
loading – shear and moment, Singularity functions, and Superposition.
UNIT II
Static failure theories
introduction; Failure of ductile materials under static loading – the Von Mises-Hencky or
distortion-energy theory, the maximum shear-stress theory, maximum normal-stress theory,
and comparison of experimental data with failure theories; Failure of brittle materials under
160
static loading – even and uneven materials, the Colomb-Mohr theory, the modified-Mohr
theory, fracture-mechanics – fracture mechanics theory, fracture toughness Kc; Using the
static-loading failure theories; Case studies in static failure analysis – case study 1C –
bicycle break lever failure analysis, case study 2C – crimping – tool failure analysis, case
study 3C – automobile scissors – jack failure analysis, and case study 4C – bicycle break
arm factors of safety
UNIT III
Fatigue failure theories
Introduction - history of fatigue failure; Mechanism of fatigue failure – crack-initiation stage,
crack propagation stage, and fracture; Fatigue-failure models – fatigue regimes, the stress-
life approach, the strain-life approach, the LEFM approach; Machine design considerations;
Fatigue loads – rotating machinery loading, and service equipment loading.
UNIT IV
Surface failure
Introduction; Surface geometry; Mating surfaces; Friction – effect of roughness on friction,
effect of velocity on friction, rolling friction, and effect of lubricant on friction; Adhesive wear
– the adhesive wear coefficient; Abrasive wear – abrasive materials, and abrasion-resistant
materials; Corrosion wear – corrosion fatigue, and fretting corrosion; Surface fatigue;
Spherical contact – contact pressure and contact patch in spherical contact, static stress
distributions in spherical contact; Cylindrical contact - contact pressure and contact patch in
parallel cylindrical contact, and static stress distributions in parallel cylindrical contact;
General contact - contact pressure and contact patch in general contact, and stress
distribution in general contact; Dynamic contact stresses – effect of sliding component on
contact stresses.
UNIT V
Design case studies
Introduction; Case study 7 – A portable air compressor – case study 7a – preliminary design
of a compressor drive train; Case study 8 – A hay-bale lifter – Case study 8a – preliminary
design of a winch lift; Case study 9 – A cam – testing machine – case study 9a - preliminary
design of a cam dynamic text fixture (CDTF)
TEXT BOOK
Machine Design: Integrated Approach by Robert L. Norton; Publisher: Pearson Education.
REFERENCE
1. Mechanical Engineering Design (SI edition) by J.E. Shigley; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Mechanical Engineering Design (SI edition) by J.E.Shigley and Mischke.
3. Mechanical Engineering Design (International edition) by J.E.Shigley, Mischke, and
Budynas; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
4. Mechanical Engineering Design (International edition) by J.E.Shigley, Mischke,
R.G.Budynas, and K.J.Nisbett; Publisher: TMH.
161
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 4 0 4
(R11AME1110) AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
Course Prerequisites: Thermodynamics, Basic Electrical Engineering
Course Objectives:
 Understand the Working of Fuel, Ignition, and cooling Systems
 Understand the Working of Lubrication and Electrical Systems.
 Understand the Working of transmission, Suspension, Steering and Braking
Systems.
 Understand about constructional details of electronic components
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to:
 Learn the concepts, functions and working of automotive systems and
subsystems.
 Gain knowledge on constructional details and functionality of automotive cooling,
lubrication and fuel systems.
 Able to explain the constructional details and functionality of automotive electrical,
driveline and transmission systems.
 Able to explain the constructional details and functionality of automotive electrical,
driveline and transmission systems
UNIT I
Automotive service and shop work
Introduction to automobile - regulating the automobile, future power plants and electric
vehicles;
Jobs in automotive service - opportunities in automotive service, and automotive technician
certification;
Shop work and service information - finding and using automotive service information, and
identifying a recalled vehicle;
Automotive shop safety - shop safety rules, and hazardous material and hazardous waste;
Measuring systems and measuring tools - linear, pressure, and vacuum measurements;
Automotive fasteners, gaskets, and sealants - prevailing torque fasteners, torque-to-yield
bolts, gaskets, seals, sealants, and thread-locking chemicals;
Shop hand tools - striking, turning, gripping, and cutting tools, torque wrench, and torque-
angle gauge;
Shop equipment and power tools – electric, pneumatic, and hydraulic tools.
162
UNIT II
Automotive engines
Fundamentals of engine operation - combustion and actions in the engine cylinder;
Electricity and electronic engine controls - electricity, magnetism, Ohm’s law, electronics
and semiconductor devices, microprocessor, memory, and electronic engine control;
Piston-engine operation - basic engine construction, and operation;
Engine types and classifications - cylinder numbering and firing order, two-stroke-cycle and
four-stroke-cycle engines, and adiabatic, gas-turbine, and Wankel engines;
Engine construction - cylinder blocks, cylinder heads, manifolds, crankshaft, bearings, rods,
pistons, and rings;
Valves and valve trains - driving and timing the camshaft, valves, valve seats, valve-train
components, valve timing and variable valve timing;
Engine measurements and performance - engine mechanical and performance
measurements, compression ratio, and volumetric efficiency.
UNIT III
Automotive engine systems
Automotive engine fuels - fuels, combustion, abnormal combustion, detonation, alcohol,
alcohol-blend, and other fuels;
Engine fuel and exhaust systems - air intake and mixer distribution, exhaust system and
electronic noise control;
Superchargers and turbochargers - supercharger and turbocharger construction and
operation, supercharger and turbocharger diagnosis and service;
Electronic fuel-injection systems - air-fuel and stoichiometric ratio, and injectors- sensors-
actuators in port and TBI systems;
Fuel-injected fuel systems - diagnosis and service - On-board diagnostics and retrieving
trouble codes, sensor and ECM diagnosis and testing, cleaning injectors, and servicing fuel-
injection systems.
UNIT IV
(Contd) Automotive engine systems
Carburetors - carburetors (single, multiple-barrel, and variable-venturi), and electronically
controlled feedback carburetors;
Carbureted fuel systems - diagnosis and service, testing mixture-control solenoid,
carburetor adjustments and service;
Diesel fuel-injection systems - diesel fuel, fuel injection pumps, governors, diesel injection
nozzles, and electronic controls;
Engine lubricating systems - engine oil, lubricating systems, indicators, lubricating-system
trouble diagnosis and service;
Engine cooling systems - Antifreeze and cooling-system components, Drive belts, electric
fans, and indicators.
163
Elements of automotive chassis
UNIT V
Automotive electrical and electronic equipment
Automotive electrical and electronic systems - electrical-circuit components, symbols, and
wiring diagrams, basic electrical diagnosis, tests and measurements;
Automotive battery - battery construction, operation, maintenance, battery testing,
diagnosis, charging and replacement;
Starting system - operation and service - permanent-magnet and electromagnet starting
motors, starting-system trouble diagnosis, testing and service;
Charging system - operation and service - alternators and regulators, charging-system
trouble diagnosis, testing, and service;
Contact-point ignition system - ignition-system components, timing, spark advance, spark
plugs, and heat range.
TEXT BOOK
Automotive Mechanics by William H. Crouse and Donald L. Anglin; Publisher: McGraw Hill
REFERENCE
1. Automotive Mechanics by Heitner.
2. Automotive Engineering by Newton Seeds and Garrett
3. A Systems Approach to Automobile Technology by Jack Erjavec; Publisher: YESSDEE
Publishers.
164
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 4 0 4
(R11MED1133) MECHATRONICS
Course Prerequisites: Instrumentation and Control Systems
Course Objectives:
 Impart the knowledge on transducers
 Understand about concept of actuation systems
 Understand about dynamic response of the system
 Impart the knowledge on Microprocessors
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to:
 Know about the sensors and transducers used in mechatronics system.
 Understand the concept of actuation systems
 Able to know the dynamic response of the system.
 Apply the microprocessors
UNIT I
Introduction
Scope of mechatronics; Systems; Measurement systems; Control systems, Microprocessor-
based controllers; Response of systems; The mechatronics approach.
Sensors and transducers
Introduction; Performance terminology, Displacement, position and proximity; Velocity and
motion; Force; Fluid pressure; Liquid flow; Liquid level; Temperature; Light sensors;
Selection of sensors; Inputting data by switches.
UNIT II
Signal conditioning
Introduction; The operational amplifier; Protection; Filtering, Wheatstone bridge; Digital
signals; Multiplexers; Data acquisition; Digital signal processing; Pulse modulation.
Data presentation systems
Displays; Data presentation elements; Magnetic recording; Data acquisition systems;
Measurement systems, Testing and calibration.
UNIT III
Pneumatic and hydraulic actuation systems
Actuation systems; Pneumatic and hydraulic systems; Directional control valves; Pressure
control valves; Cylinders; Process control valves; Rotary actuators.
Mechanical actuation systems
Mechanical systems; Types of motion; Kinematic chains; Cams, Gear trains; Ratchet and
pawl; Belt and chain drives; Bearings; Mechanical aspects of motor selection.
165
UNIT IV
Electrical actuation system
Electrical systems; Mechanical switches; Solid-state switches; Solenoids; DC Motors; AC
Motors; Stepper motors.
Basic system models
Mathematical models; Mechanical systems building blocks; Electrical system building
blocks; Fluid system building blocks; Thermal system building blocks.
System models
Engineering systems; Rotational–translational systems; Electro-mechanical systems;
Hydraulic-mechanical systems.
UNIT V
Dynamic responses of systems
Modeling dynamic systems; First order systems; Second order systems; Performance
measures for second order systems; System identification.
System transfer function
The transfer function; First order systems; Second order systems,; Systems in series;
Systems with feed back loops; Effect of pole locations on transient response.
Closed loop controllers
Continuous and discrete processes; Control modes; Two step mode; Proportional mode;
Derivative control; Integral control; PID controller; Digital controllers; Control system
performance; Controller tuning, Velocity control, Adaptive control.
Microprocessors
Control; Microprocessors systems; Microcontrollers; Applications; Programming.
TEXT BOOK
Mechatronics: Electronic Control Systems in Mechanical and Electrical Engineering by W.
Bolton; Publisher: Pearson Education.
REFERENCE
1. Mechatronics; Publisher: HMT and TMH
2. Introduction to Mechatronics and Measurement Systems by David G. Alciatore,
Michael B.Histand; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
3. Mechatronic System Design by Devdas Shetty and Richard A. Kolk; Publisher:
Cengage Learning.
4. INSTRUMENTATION by B.E. Noltingk (Part Numbers 1, to 5); Publisher: Butterworth-
Heinemann
166
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 4 0 4
(R11MED1134) ADVANCED MECHANICS OF SOLIDS
Course Prerequisite: Mechanics of Solids, Engineering Mechanics, Mathematics
Course Objectives:
 Understand the concept of stress and strain in 3-D, cauchy’s formula, Mohr’s
circle, Drucker-pager yield criteria, shear effect on inelastic bending etc.
 Understand the concept of torsion, buckling and stability, columns with eccentric
axis loads.
 Understand method of superposition, principal of work, power and energy and its
importance.
 Impart the knowledge on analysis of stresses
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Quote Stress equilibrium equations to Solve solid mechanics problems
effectively.
 Describe the theories of failure for various design aspects.
 Apply the concepts of torsion, buckling and stability, columns with eccentric axis
loads for real life situations.
 Analyze stresses built in various members for a given application.
UNIT I
Linear stress-strain-temperature relations
First law of thermodynamics, internal energy density, and complementary internal energy
density – elasticity and internal-energy density, and elasticity and complementary internal-
energy density; Hooke’s law: anisotropic elasticity; Hooke’s law: isotropic elasticity –
isotropic and homogeneous materials, and strain-energy density of isotropic materials;
Equations of thermoelasticty for isotropic materials; Hooke’s law: orthotropic materials.
Inelastic material behavior
Limitations on the use of uniaxial stress-strain data – rate of loading, temperature lower than
room temperature, temperature higher than room temperature, unloading and load reversal,
and multiaxial states of stress; Nonlinear material response – models of uniaxial stress-
strain curves; Yield criteria: general concepts – maximum principal stress criterion,
maximum principal strain criterion, and strain-energy density criterion; Yielding of ductile
metals – maximum shear-stress (Tresca) criterion, distortional energy density (von mises)
criterion, and effect of hydrostatic stress and the π-plane; Alternative yield criteria – Mohr-
coulomb yield criterion, Drucker-Prager yield criterion, and Hill’s criterion for orthotropic
materials; General yielding – elastic-plastic bending, fully plastic moment, shear effect on
inelastic bending, modulus of rupture, comparison of failure criteria, and interpretation of
failure criteria for general yielding.
167
UNIT II
Curved beams
Introduction; Circumferential stresses in a curved beam – location of neutral axis of cross
section; Radial stresses in curved beams – curved beams made from anisotropic materials;
Correction of circumferential stresses in curved beams having I, T, or similar cross sections
– Bleich’s correction factors; Deflections of curved beams – cross sections in the form of an
I, T, etc.; Statically indeterminate curved beams: closed ring subjected to a concentrated
load; Fully plastic loads for curved beams – fully plastic versus maximum elastic loads for
curved beams.
UNIT III
Beams on elastic foundations
General theory; Infinite beam subjected to concentrated load: boundary conditions – method
of superposition, and beam supported on equally spaced discrete elastic supports; Infinite
beam subjected to a distributed load segment – uniformly distributed load, βL’< π, βL’∞,
intermediate values of βL’, and triangular load; Semiinfinite beam subjected to loads at its
end; Semiinfinite beam with concentrated load near its end; Short beams; Thin-wall circular
cylinders.
UNIT IV
The thick-wall cylinder
Basic relations – equations of equilibrium, strain-displacement relations and compatibility
condition, stress-strain-temperature relations, and material response data; Stress
components at sections far from ends for a cylinder with closed ends – open cylinder; Stress
components and radial displacement for constant temperature – stress components, radial
displacement for a closed cylinder, and radial displacement for an open cylinder; Criteria of
failure – failure of brittle materials, failure of ductile materials, material response data for
design, and ideal residual stress distributions for composite open cylinders; Fully plastic
pressure and autofrettage; Cylinder solution for temperature change only – steady-state
temperature change (distribution), and stress components; Rotating disks of constant
thickness.
UNIT V
Flat plates
Introduction; Stress resultants in a flat plate; Kinematics: strain-displacement relations for
plates – rotation of a plate surface element; Equillibrium equations for small-displacement
theory of flat plates; Stress-strain-temperature relations for isotropic elastic plates – stress
components in terms of tractions and moments, and pure bending of plates; Strain energy of
a plate; Boundary conditions for plates; Solution of rectangular plate problems – Solution of
▼2 ▼2 w = P/D for a rectangular plate, Westerguaard approximate solution for rectangular
plates: uniform load, deflection of a rectangular plate: uniformly distributed load;
Solution of circular plate problems – solution of ▼2 ▼2 w = P/D for a circular plate, circular
plates with simply supported edges, circular plates with fixed edges, circular plate with a
circular hole at the center; summary of circular plates with simply supported edges,
168
summary for stresses and deflections in flat circular plates with central holes, summary for
large elastic deflections of circular plates: clamped edge and uniformly distributed load,
significant stress when edges are clamped, load on a plate when edges are clamped,
summary for large elastic deflections of circular plates: simply supported edge and uniformly
distributed load, rectangular or other shaped plates with large deflections.
Contact stresses
Introduction; The problem of determining contact stresses; Geometry of the contact surface
– fundamental assumptions, contact surface shape after loading, justification, and brief
discussion of the solution; Notation and meaning of terms; Expressions for principal
stresses; Method of computing contact stresses – principal stresses, maximum shear
stress, maximum octahedral shear stress, maximum orthogonal shear stress, and curves for
computing stresses for any value of B/A; Deflection of bodies in point contact – significance
of stresses; Stress for two bodies in line contact: loads normal to contact area – maximum
principal stresses:k=0, maximum shear stress:k=0, and maximum octahedral shear
stress:k=0; Stresses for two bodies in line contact:loads normal and tangent to contact area
– roller on plane, principal stresses, maximum shear stress, maximum octahedral shear
stress, effect of magnitude of friction coefficient, and range of shear stress for one load
cycle.
Overview of creep: time-dependent deformation.
TEXT BOOK
Advanced Mechanics of Materials (6E) by Arthur P. Boresi and Richard J. Schmidt;
Publisher: John Wiley.
REFERENCE
Strength of Materials (part 2): Advanced Theory and Problems by Stephen Timoshenko;
Publisher: CBS.
169
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 4 0 4
(R11MED1135) METAL FORMING
Course Prerequisites: Production Technology, Metallurgy & Material Science
Course Objectives:
 To understand the concepts of various metal forming techniques
 To analyze the mechanics of metal forming
 To estimate the metallurgical & mechanical properties of metals
 To know the concepts of sheet metal forming
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 To acquire a deeper knowledge about metal forming under different conditions
and in various processes.
 Analyze metal forming mechanics.
 Understand Workability of testing techniques.
 Apply Tribology in metal forming and other phenomena.
UNIT I
Elements of the theory of plasticity
Introduction; The flow curve; True stress and true strain; Yield criteria for ductile metals;
Combined stress tests; The yield locus; Anisotropy in yielding; Yield surface and normality;
Octahedral shear stress and shear strain; Invariants of stress and strain; Plastic stress and
strain relations.
UNIT II
Fundamentals of metal forming
Classification of forming processes; Mechanics of metal working; Flow stress determination;
Temperature in metalworking; Strain rate effects; Metallurgical structure; Friction and
lubrication; Deformation zone geometry; Hydrostatic pressure; Workability; Residual
stresses; Experimental techniques for metalworking processes; Computer aided
manufacturing.
170
UNIT III
Forging
Classification of forging processes; Forging equipment; Forging in plane strain; Open die
forging; Closed die forging; Calculation of forging loads in closed die forging; Forging
defects; Powder metallurgy forging; Residual stresses in forgings.
Rolling of metals
Classification of rolling processes; Rolling mills; Hot rolling; Cold rolling; Rolling of bars and
shapes; Forces and geometrical relationship in rolling; Simplified analysis of rolling load -
rolling variables; Problems and defects in rolled products; Rolling-mill control; Theories of
cold rolling; Theories of hot rolling; Torque and power.
UNIT IV
Extrusion
Classification of extrusion processes; Extrusion equipment; Hot extrusion; Deformation,
lubrication and defects in extrusion; Analysis of extrusion process; Cold extrusion and Cold
forming; Hydrostatic extrusion; Extrusion of tubing; Production of seamless pipe and tubing.
UNIT V
Drawing of rods, wires, and tubes
Introduction; Rod and wiredrawing; Analysis of wiredrawing; Tube drawing processes;
Analysis of tube drawing; Residual stresses in rod, Wire and tubes.
Sheet metal forming
Introduction; Forming methods; Shearing and blanking; Bending; Stretch forming; Deep
drawing; Forming limit criteria; Defects in formed parts.
TEXT BOOK
Mechanical Metallurgy by George E. Dieter; Publisher: McGraw-Hill.
REFERENCE
1. Handbook of Metal Forming by Kurt Lange and Klaus Pohlandt; Publisher: McGraw
Hill.
2. Theory of Metal Forming Processes by Surender Kumar; Publisher: PHI
171
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 4 0 4
(R11MED1136) TRIBOLOGY
Course Prerequisite: Engineering Materials
Course Objectives:
 Impart the knowledge on anti-friction and anti-wear components and the
lubricants
 Understand about operation of anti-friction or anti-wear components
 Understand about tribological design
 Impart the knowledge on preparing technical project reports and technical
presentations
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Gain Knowledge on common anti-friction and anti-wear components and the
lubricants.
 Describe the detailed operation of selected anti-friction or anti-wear components.
 Design a Tribological system for optimal performance.
 Develop technical project reports and technical presentations.
UNIT I
Introduction to the concept of tribodesign
Specific principles of tribodesign; Tribological problems in machine design - plain sliding
bearings, rolling contact bearings, piston, piston rings, cylinder liners, friction drives,
overview of gears.
Basic principles of tribology
Origins of sliding friction; Contact between bodies in relative motion; Friction due to
adhesion; Friction due to ploughing; Friction due to deformation; Energy dissipation during
friction; Friction under complex motion conditions; Types of wear and their mechanisms -
adhesive wear, abrasive wear, wear due to surface fatigue, and wear due to chemical
reactions; Sliding contact between surface asperities; The probability of surface asperity
contact.
UNIT II
(Cont’d) Basic principles of tribology
Wear in lubricated contacts - rheological lubrication regime, functional lubrication regime,
fractional film defect, load sharing in lubricated contacts, adhesive wear equation, and
fatigue wear equation; Relation between fracture mechanics and wear - estimation of stress
intensity under non-uniform applied loads; Film lubrication - coefficient of viscosity, fluid film
in simple shear, viscous flow between very close parallel surfaces, shear stress variations
within the film, lubrication theory by Osborne Reynolds, high-speed unloaded journal,
172
equilibrium conditions in a loaded bearing, loaded high-speed journal, equilibrium equations
for loaded high-speed journal, reaction torque acting on the bearing, the virtual coefficient of
friction, and the Sommerfeld diagram.
UNIT III
Elements of contact mechanics
Introduction; Concentrated and distributed forces on plane surfaces; Contact between two
elastic bodies in the form of spheres; Contact between cylinders and between bodies of
general shape; Failures of contacting surfaces; Design values and procedures;
Thermal effects in surface contacts - analysis of line contacts, refinement for unequal bulk
temperatures, refinement for thermal bulging in the conjunction zone, the effect of surface
layers and lubricant films, critical temperature for lubricated contacts, the case of circular
contact, contacts for which size is determined by load, and maximum attainable flash
temperature;
Contact between rough surfaces - characteristics of random rough surfaces, and contact of
nominally flat rough surfaces; Representation of machine element contacts.
UNIT IV
Friction, lubrication and wear in lower kinematics pairs
Introduction; The concept of friction angle - friction in slideways, and friction stability; Friction
in screws with a square thread - application of a threaded screw in a jack; Friction in screws
with a triangular thread; Plate clutch - mechanism of operation; Cone clutch - mechanism of
operation - driving torque; Rim clutch - mechanism of operation - equilibrium conditions,
auxiliary mechanisms, and power transmission rating; Centrifugal clutch - mechanism of
operation; Boundary lubricated sliding bearings - axially loaded bearings, and pivot and
collar bearings; Drives utilizing friction force - belt drive, mechanism of action, power
transmission rating, relationship between belt tension and modulus, and V-belt and rope
drives; Overview of frictional aspects of brake design.
UNIT V
Sliding-element bearings
Derivation of the Reynolds equation; Hydrostatic bearings; Squeeze-film lubrication
bearings; Thrust bearings - flat pivot, the effect of the pressure gradient in the direction of
motion, equilibrium conditions, and coefficient of friction and critical slope; Journal bearings
- geometrical configuration and pressure generation, mechanism of load transmission,
thermoflow considerations, design for load-bearing capacity, unconventional cases of
loading, numerical example.
TEXT BOOK
Tribology in Machine Design by T.A. Stolarski; Publisher: Butterworth and
Heinemann/Industrial Press.
REFERENCE
1. Tribology: Friction and Wear of Engineering Materials by I.M.Hutchings; Publisher:
Edward Arnold.
2. Industrial Tribology: The Practical Aspects of Friction, Lubrication and Wear by
M.H.Jones and Douglas Scott; Publisher: Elsevier
173
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 4 0 4
(R11MED1137) RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES: SOLAR ENERGY
Course Prerequisite: Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer
Course Objectives:
 Understand about the concept of renewable energy sources
 Impart the knowledge on governing equations for power generation
 Understand about the different types of solar and wind equipments
 Understand about the improvement of work efficiencies
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 To understand the working principles of renewable energy.
 Development of governing equations for power generation.
 Design, Fabricate and testing of different solar equipments.
 Design and improve working efficiency of wind turbine
UNIT I
Principles of renewable energy
Introduction; Energy and sustainable development; Fundamentals; Scientific principles of
renewable energy; Technical implications; Social implications.
Essentials of fluid dynamics
Introduction; Conservation of energy-Bernoulli’s equation; Conservation of momentum;
Viscosity; Turbulence; Friction in pipe flow; Lift and drag forces-fluid and turbine machinery.
UNIT II
Heat transfer
Introduction; Heat circuit analysis and terminology; Conduction; Contents; Convection;
Radiative heat transfer; Properties of transparent materials; Heat transfer by mass transport;
Multimode transfer and circuit analysis.
UNIT III
Solar radiation
Introduction; Extraterrestrial solar radiation; Components of radiation; Geometry of the Earth
and Sun; Geometry of collector and the solar beam; Effects of the Earth’s atmosphere;
Measurements of solar radiation; Estimation of solar radiation.
Solar water heating
Introduction; Calculation of heat balance-general remarks; Uncovered solar water heaters–
progressive analysis; Improved solar water heaters; Systems with separate storage;
Selective surfaces; Evacuated collectors; Social and environmental aspects.
174
UNIT IV
Buildings and other solar thermal applications
Introduction; Air heaters; Energy-efficient buildings; Crop driers; Space cooling; Water
desalination; Solar ponds; Solar concentrators; Solar thermal electric power systems; Social
and environmental aspects.
UNIT V
Photovoltaic generation
Introduction; The silicon P–N junction; Photon absorption at the junction; Solar radiation
absorption; Maximising cell efficiency; Solar cell construction; Types and adaptations of
photovoltaics; Photovoltaic circuit properties; Applications and systems; Social and
environmental aspects.
Overview of Energy storage
TEXT BOOK
Renewable Energy Sources by John Twidell and Tony Weir; Publisher: Taylor and Francis
Group.
REFERENCE
1. Principles of Solar Energy by Frank Krieth and J.F. Kreider
2. Solar Power Engineering by B.S.Magal, Frank Krieth, and J.F. Kreider.
175
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 4 0 4
(R11MED1138) INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING
Course Prerequisite: Manufacturing, General Management, Business Economics,
Mathematics & Statistics
Course Objectives:
 Perform as industry leaders in the global marketplace, capable of successfully
planning, controlling, and implementing large-scale projects.
 Flourish and work effectively in diverse, multicultural environments emphasizing
the application of teamwork and communication skills.
 Understand and apply the principles of Management, science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics involving industry-relevant problems.
 Understand about the knowledge on professional practice
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Apply knowledge of Management, mathematics, science, and engineering.
 Evaluates the system, component, or process to meet desired needs within
realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical,
health and safety, manufacturability and sustainability.
 Analyzes and applies the IEM, Communicate effectively, Function on
multidisciplinary teams.
 Solves the contemporary & emerging issues important to professional practice.
BUSINESS QUALITY MANAGEMENT
UNIT I
The quality of products and services and total quality control
New impact of quality; Total quality control and its purpose; The meaning of "Quality"; The
meaning of "Quality"—Orientation to customer satisfaction; The meaning of "Control" in
industry; Scope of total quality control; Total quality control's organization wide impact—total
quality management; Systems engineering and management—foundation for total quality
control; The evolution of total quality control; Quality—a major business management
strategy; The place of total quality control in the modern business management concept:
profitability and positive cash flow, examples, the range and timing of results and benefits,
and return on investment; Quality: responsibility to society; The quality challenge facing
industry.
176
The buyer, the producer, and the new marketplace demands for quality
The buyer - a profile, and consumerism; The buyer and the service industries; The producer
- a profile; Product and service liability and the producer; The warranty and the producer;
Product recall and the producer; The marketplace - an overview; The marketplace - an
example; The marketplace - opportunity from quality leadership.
Productivity, technology, and the internationalization of quality
The worker - a profile; Total quality and total productivity - an example; Total quality and
product development; Quality, mechanization, and automation; Quality information
processing, computer technology, and software quality control; Total quality, standards, and
specifications; Total quality and safety; Total quality and liability loss prevention; Total
quality and internationalism - the role of government.
Factors in controlling quality and the jobs of quality control
The 9 M's: fundamental factors affecting quality; Complications of modern quality problems;
Usage of quality control; Jobs of quality control; New-design control; Incoming-material
control; Product control; Special process studies; Role of statistics in the quality-control job;
Role of other methodology in the quality-control job; Application of the jobs of quality control
to job lot as well as to high-quantity production; Accomplishment of jobs of quality control.
THE TOTAL QUALITY SYSTEM
UNIT II
The systems approach to quality
Today's systems requirement; Definition of the total quality system; The total quality system
and the engineering technology of quality control; The systems engineering and systems
management approach; The organization wide scope of the total quality system and the role
of general management; Systems engineering and systems management activities for
quality control; Characteristics of the total quality system; The meaning of the total quality
system; Necessity of a total quality system-an example.
Establishing the quality system
Controlling the quality-systems activity; Total quality-system principles; Key systems
activities for total quality control; Preproduction quality evaluation; Product- and process-
quality planning; Purchased-material quality planning, evaluation, and control; Product-and
process-quality evaluation and control; Quality information feedback; Quality information
equipment; Quality training, orientation, and work force development; Postproduction quality
service; Management of the quality activity; Special quality studies; Key areas of systems
measurement; Key systems activities for quality control-an example; The quality-systems
manual; Quality-systems management; Recognizing an effective quality system - a
summary.
177
Quality costs - foundation of quality-systems economics
Scope of quality costs; Operating quality costs; Reduction of quality costs by total quality
control; Quality-cost establishment; Identifying quality-cost items; Collecting and reporting
quality-cost information; Analysis of quality costs; Selection of measurement bases for
operating quality costs; Establishment of quality-cost goals; Applications of quality costs;
Return on investment and quality costs; Other quality-cost categories in quality-systems
economics; Indirect quality costs and vendor quality costs; Intangible quality costs and
"liability exposure" costs; Equipment quality costs; Life cycle and use-oriented quality costs -
structuring the costs, and cost input and measurement bases; Other measures for decision
making in quality control; Quality costs and economic growth - a summary.
MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES FOR QUALITY
UNIT III
Organizing for quality
Requirements for quality organization; Defining the organizationwide impact of total quality
control; The task of quality organization; Formal organization for quality in the past; The
status of quality responsibilities in these organizations; Issues from this distribution of
responsibilities; Process of "control"; Organizing principles; The first principle - key
organization wide quality responsibilities and authorities; The second principle - key quality-
control responsibilities and authorities; Structuring total quality organization - general
management responsibility; The three quality-control sub functions; Organizing the quality-
control function in a company; Basic questions for organization structuring; Centralization
and decentralization of issues of quality control function; Structuring of quality control
component; Quality assurance and quality control; Location of the function; Organizing for
reliability and other product-quality parameters; Problems in organizing for quality control;
Broad behavioral science view of quality-control organization; Size of the quality-control
component; The special quality requirements imposed by internationalism; Organizing for
international quality control.
Achieving total commitment to quality
The scope of quality commitment; The role of quality education; Quality education as a
process; Analysis of the existing quality-education process; Use of answers to the
questions; Quality-mindedness; Participative approaches to quality commitment-quality
circles; Quality of working life (QWL), and other key approaches; Formalized training in
quality control; The range covered by quality-control training programs; Alternative
resources for quality-control training programs; Responsibility for quality-control training;
Motivation for the development of total quality control and total quality systems; Sequence
for obtaining a commitment to a total-quality-control program; Steps in achieving a
widespread quality-control commitment; The attitude for quality proponents themselves;
Introducing quality control in the multiplant company; Communicating quality commitment to
178
vendors; Communicating quality commitment to customers; Communicating quality control
precisely; Commitment to quality - growth of the quality-control profession; Commitment to
quality - worldwide growth of the quality field.
ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY OF QUALITY
UNIT IV
Quality-engineering technology
The technological triangle; Quality-Engineering technology; The techniques of quality
engineering, Quality objectives and quality policy; Approaches to analysis; Quality-
Engineering analytical techniques; Delineation of quality requirements; Designed
experiments; Analysis of product reliability and life cycle; Analysis of environmental and
end-use effects; Analysis of safety; Review of designs; Evaluation of effects of new
methods, new processes, and new materials; Adjustment of product and process for
compatibility; Vendor-facilities evaluation; Quality-cost optimization; Approaches to planning;
Quality-engineering-planning techniques; Classification of characteristics; Acceptance
sampling; Determination of quality measurements to be made; Determination of quality-
measuring equipment requirements; Documentation of quality planning; Making quality
requirements understood by vendors; Servicing of vendors; Material-certification plans;
Quality information feedback; Liability loss control; Data processing and the use of
computers; Software control; Communication with other functions; Feedback of information
from the field; Corrective action; Audit planning-product, procedure, and system; Quality
control in the field; Customer attitude; Promotion of quality to the customer; Configuration
control, design changes, and traceability;
Process-control-engineering technology
Process-control-engineering technology; Process-control-engineering analytical techniques;
Machine- and process-capability analysis; Quality-measuring equipment capability and
repeatability analysis, Analysis of pilot-run results; Incoming-material testing, inspection, and
laboratory analysis; Quality-assurance inspection; Production testing; Process-variation
analysis; Test-data analysis; Field complaint analysis; Process-control-engineering
techniques used for in-process control; Vendor rating and vendor performance rating;
"Structure table" control; Control charts; Work sampling; Process engineering techniques for
implementing the quality plan; Use of manuals and standing instructions; Interpretation of
drawings, specifications, and quality planning; Temporary quality planning; First-piece
inspection; Disposition of discrepant or nonconforming material, Process engineering
techniques-quality audit; Product audits; Procedures audits, Quality-system audits; Other
areas of quality audit; Use of the technology by the process-control-engineering component;
Key checkpoints for process control.
179
Quality information equipment engineering technology
The job of modern equipment; Quality information equipment engineering; The relationship
among quality information equipment engineering, quality engineering, and process-control
engineering; The relationship among quality information equipment engineering, quality
engineering, and process-control engineering; Some forms of quality information equipment;
Advanced development areas; Quality information equipment functional concept; Degree of
mechanization for the control of processes; Computer-aided quality; The points of process
for application of quality information equipment; Preprocess measurement and control; In-
process measurement and control; Postprocess control techniques; Post process control-
major quality information equipment requirements; Combined process measurement and
control techniques; Integrated process control; Information recording, analysis, and
feedback; Evaluating and analyzing the measurement operation; Specifying the equipment;
Getting the equipment built; Getting the equipment into operation; Summary of quality
information equipment-basic factors in productivity, mechanization, and electronicization;
Overview of statistical quality control.
APPLYING TOTAL QUALITY CONTROL IN THE COMPANY
UNIT V
New-design control
The importance of the control of new designs; The needs for new-design control-influence
during product planning; The scope of new-design control; Defining new-design control;
Application of new-design control; Organizing for new-design control; Pattern for the new-
design control routine-the fundamental activities; Typical new-design control routines;
Operation of new-design control routine-preliminary design, testing and reliability,
intermediate design, and final design and product qualification; Quality-control function's
technical participation in new-design control; Techniques used in new-design control;
Tolerance analysis; Planned inspection, Overview of statistical analysis of tools specially
purchased for the new product; Failure mode, effect, and criticality analysis; Safety studies;
Some practical aspects of new-design control; Pilot run to determine spring specification; An
example of quality/design teamwork; Testing new products; Reliability testing; Overall new-
design control program on a new electromechanical switch.
Incoming-material control
The needs for incoming-material control; Defining incoming-material control; principles of
vendor-purchaser relations in quality; Organizing for incoming-material control; Pattern for
the incoming-material control routine and examples - purchase analysis, vendor selection
and order placement, material receipt and material examination, material disposal, record
keeping and follow-through, and vendor relations and vendor surveillance, Techniques used
in incoming-material control; Vendor relations; Vendor records and information processing;
Vendor ratings; Incoming inspection gage control; Study of rejects on incoming plastic
180
cases; Integrated vendor-purchaser control of paint treatments; Control of purchased
springs; Control of printed circuit requirements; Instituting improved control over incoming
material in a going business; vendor rating through data processing.
Product control
The needs for product control; Defining product control; Organizing for product control; The
role of process-control engineering in product control; The pattern; Standards;
Manufacturing control; High quantities versus job lots; Job-lot machine shop; Process
sampling in a machine shop; Characteristics approach to numerical control; High-quantity
subassembly; Assembly; Techniques used in product control; Background; Concepts of
capability studies; Calculation of the process capability; Use of process-capability studies,
Product-control audits of procedures, systems, and measurements; Audit of quality of
research and development work; Product traceability; Software product control; Quality
information processing and flow.
Special process studies
Defining special process studies; The elements of special process studies; Organizing for
special process studies; Thermometal; Casting of sintered blocks.
Total quality imperative
The total quality imperative; Benchmarks of total quality control; Management principles of
total quality.
TEXT BOOK
Total Quality Control by Armand V. Feigenbaum; Publisher: Mc Graw Hill.
REFERENCE
1. Guide to Quality Control by Kaoru Ishikawa; Publisher Asian Productivity Organization.
2. Juran’s Quality Control Handbook by J.M.Juran and F.M.Gryna; Publisher: McGraw
Hill.
181
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(R11MED1139) UNCONVENTIONAL MACHINING PROCESSES
Course Prerequisites: Manufacturing Technology & Engineering Materials
Course Objectives:
To make the students to:
 Know the classification of various Non-Traditional machining processes and know
the importance of Thermal energy based machining processes.
 Understand the working principles of chemical energy based material removal
processes.
 Remember the Working principles of thermal energy and electrical energy based
material removal processes
 Remember the working principles of mechanical energy based material removal
processes.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Understand the classification of Advanced Machining methods and decide the
process parameters to be adopted and applicability of various materials that are
suitable for thermal energy based machining processes.
 Analyze the concepts and decide the process parameters to be adopted and
applicability of various materials that are suitable for chemical energy based
machining processes.
 Decide the process parameters to be adopted and applicability of various
materials that are suitable for electrical and thermal based machining processes
and their applicability for the real world situation.
 Decide the process parameters to be adopted and applicability of various
materials that are suitable for mechanical energy based machining processes and
their applicability for the real world situation
UNIT I
Early progress in machining;
Electron beam machining (EBM)
Introduction; Basic equipment; Emission current; Theoretical considerations; Rates of
material removal in EBM; Surface roughness of work piece in EBM; Heat-affected zone;
Applications of EBM.
Ion beam machining
Introduction; Ion beam machining system; Collision mechanism; Rates of material removal
in IBM; Accuracy and surface effects; Applications.
182
UNIT II
Electrochemical machining
Introduction; Electrolysis; Characteristics of ECM; Basic working principles; Industrial
electrochemical machine; Rates of machining; Surface finish in ECM; Accuracy and
dimensional control; Overview of theory of shaping in ECM; Applications; Special ECM
applications.
UNIT III
Laser machining
Introduction; Spontaneous emission of radiation; Stimulated emission; Laser oscillation;
Types of laser; Laser beam characteristics; Effects of laser on materials; Effects of work
piece material; Overview of Rates of machining and heat-affected zones; Applications.
Electro discharge machining
Introduction; Lazarenko relaxation (RC) circuit; Development of controlled pulse generators;
Mechanism of materiel removal; Dielectric fluids; Tool materials; Overview of metal removal
rates, surface effects, and accuracy; Applications.
UNIT IV
Overview of Plasma arc machining
Ultrasonic machining (USM)
Introduction; Principles of USM; Mechanism of material removal; Brittleness criterion;
Effects of process conditions on rate of USM; Theory of material removal rates in USM;
Surface finish; Accuracy; Applications; Ultrasonic twist drilling; Industrial ultrasonic machine.
UNIT V
Water-jet machining
Introduction; Basic equipment; Theoretical considerations; Advantages of WJM,
Applications.
TEXT BOOK
Advanced Methods of Machining by J.A. McGeough; Publisher: Chapman and Hall.
REFERENCE
1. Manufacturing Engineering and Technology by Serope Kalpakjian and Steven R.
Schmid; Publisher: Pearson.
2. New Technology by A. Battacharya; Publisher: The Institution of Engineers, India,
1984.
183
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(R11MED1140) PLANT LAYOUT AND MATERIAL HANDLING
Course Prerequisite: Manufacturing, Operations Research
Course Objectives:
 Understand plant layout system, its types and software tools used.
 Identify and learn elements of various material handling systems.
 Understand the benefit of an efficient material handling system and storage
system
 To select the various load lifting attachments
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Evaluate an appropriate plant layout for a plant.
 Create Flexible Plant layout to accommodate changes in product volume or
product type.
 Analyze an appropriate material handling system
 Evaluate the systems and equipments used for material storage
UNIT I
Plant layouts
Fundamentals of plant layouts; Software tools used for making plant layouts; Case studies
Overview of process Layout and product layout;
Elements of material handling system
Importance; Terminology; Objectives and benefits of better material handling; Principles and
features of Material Handling System; Interrelationships between material handling and
plant layout; Physical facilities and other organizational functions; Classification of material
handling equipments.
UNIT II
Selection of material handling equipments
Factors affecting for selection; Material handling equation; Choices of material handling
equipment; General analysis procedures; Basic analytical techniques; The unit load
concept; Selection of suitable types of systems for applications; Activity cost data and
economic analysis for design of components of material handling systems; Functions and
parameters affecting service; Packing and storage of materials.
184
UNIT III
Hoists
Drives for hoisting; Components and hoisting mechanisms; Rail traveling components and
mechanisms; Hoisting gear operation during transient motion; Selecting the motor rating
and determining breaking torque for hoisting mechanisms.
Cranes
Hand-propelled and electrically driven E.O.T. overhead traveling cranes; Traveling
mechanisms of cantilever and monorail cranes; Design considerations for structures of
rotary cranes with fixed radius; Fixed post and overhead traveling cranes; Stability of
stationary rotary and traveling rotary cranes.
UNIT IV
Load lifting attachments
Load chains and types of ropes used in material handling system; Forged, Standard and
ramshorn hooks; Crane grabs and clamps; Grab buckets; Electromagnet; Design
consideration for conveyor belts; Application of attachments.
UNIT V
Study of systems and equipments used for material storage
Objectives of storage; Bulk material handling; Gravity flow of solids through slides and
chutes; Storage in bins and hoppers; Belt conveyors; Bucket-elevators; Screw conveyors;
Vibratory conveyors; Cabin conveyors; Mobile racks etc.
TEXT BOOK
1. Material Handling Equipment by N. Rudenko; Publisher: Peace publishers.
2. Facility layout, location and analytical approach by R.L. Francis, L.F. McLinnis Jr.,
White; Publisher: PHI
185
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(R11MED1141) COMPUTATIONAL FLUID DYNAMICS
Course Prerequisite: C Programming, Numerical Methods, Fluid Mechanics.
Course Objectives:
 Understand different methods involved in solving problem numerically.
 Formulate different kinds of physical problems with the different schemes and
boundary conditions.
 Develop a code in a programming language to numerically solve a practical
problem.
 Impart the knowledge on stability analysis
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Solve fluid flow and heat transfer problems using numerical methods &
Programming.
 Critically analyze different mathematical models and computational methods for
flow simulations
 Write algorithms to solve the complex non linear equations numerically and able
to do a project demonstrating your understanding
 Conduct the stability analysis and check the applicability of different schemes.
BASIC THOUGHTS AND EQUATIONS
UNIT I
Philosophy of Computational Fluid Dynamics
Need for computational fluid dynamics; Computational fluid dynamics as a research tool;
Computational fluid dynamics as a design tool; The impact of computational fluid dynamics
– examples - automobile and engine applications, industrial manufacturing applications, civil
engineering applications, environmental engineering applications, naval architecture
applications (submarine example); computational fluid dynamics technique.
The Governing Equations of Fluid Dynamics - Derivation, Physical Meaning, and
Forms Particularly Suitable to CFD
Introduction; Models of the flow - Finite control volume, and infinitesimal fluid element; The
substantial derivative (time rate of change following a moving fluid element); The divergence
of the velocity - its physical meaning;
The continuity equation - model of the finite control volume fixed in space, model of the finite
control volume moving with the fluid, model of an infinitesimally small element fixed in
space, model of an infinitesimally small fluid element moving with the flow, integral versus
differential form of the equations, and similarities and differences in equations;
The momentum equation; The energy equation;
186
Summary of the governing equations for fluid dynamics - equations for viscous flow (the
navier-stokes equations), equations for inviscid flow (the Euler equations);
Physical boundary conditions; Forms of the governing equations particularly suited for CFD.
UNIT II
Mathematical behavior of partial differential equations - the impact on CFD
Introduction; Classification of quasi-linear partial differential equations; A general method of
determining the classification of partial differential equations - the eigenvalue method;
General behavior of the different classes of partial differential equations - impact on physical
and computational fluid dynamics - hyperbolic equations, parabolic equations, elliptic
equations, and applications.
BASICS OF THE NUMERICS
UNIT III
Basic aspects of discretization
Introduction; Introduction to finite differences; Difference equations; Explicit and Implicit
approaches - definitions and contrasts; Errors and an analysis of stability.
Grids with appropriate transformations
Introduction; General transformation of the equations; Metrics and Jacobians; Convenient
form of the governing equations particularly suited for CFD; Stretched (compressed) grids;
Boundary-fitted coordinate systems; Elliptic grid generation.
UNIT IV
Introduction to CFD Techniques
Introduction; The Lax-Wendroff technique; MacCormack’s technique;
Viscous flows, conservation form, and space marching; The relaxation technique and is use
with low-speed inviscid flow; Aspects of numerical dissipation and dispersion - artificial
viscosity; The alternating-direction-implicit (ADI) technique.
UNIT V
(Contd) Introduction to CFD Techniques
The pressure correction technique - application to incompressible viscous flow - the
incompressible navier-stokes equations, Central differencing of the incompressible Navier-
stokes equations - the need for a staggered grid; The philosophy of the pressure correction
method; The pressure correction formula; The numerical procedure - the SIMPLE algorithm;
Boundary conditions for the pressure correction method.
APPLICATIONS
Numerical solutions of quasi-one-dimensional nozzle flows – simple problems
Overview of Numerical solution of a two-dimensional supersonic flow- Prandtl-Meyer
expansion wave
TEXT BOOK
Computational Fluid Dynamics: the basics with applications by John D. Anderson, Jr.;
Publisher: McGraw Hill
187
REFERENCE
1. Computational Fluid Dynamics: An Introduction by J.F.Wendt and J.D.Anderson;
Publisher: Springer
2. Computational Fluid Dynamics by J.Blazek; Publisher: Elsevier.
188
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(R11EIE1123) FUNDAMENTALS OF BIOMEDICAL INSTRUMENTATION
Course Prerequisites: Instrumentation Engineering
Course Objectives:
 Impart the knowledge on various biomedical devices and sensors
 Understand about the design of amplifying the bioelectrical signals
 Understand about the knowledge of sensors
 Understand about the solving of biomedical engineering problems
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Describe and explain the principles of various biomedical devices and sensors
 Describe and design the instrumentation for amplifying the bioelectrical signals
 Demonstrate an ability to use appropriately and safely the techniques, sensors,
and selected modern engineering tools necessary for bioengineering practice.
 Identify, formulate and solve biomedical engineering problems
UNIT I
Introduction to biomedical instrumentation
The age of biomedical engineering; Development of biomedical instrumentation; Biometrics;
Introduction to the man-instrument system; Components of the man-instrument system;
Physiological systems of the body; Problems encountered in measuring a living system.
Basic transducer principles
The transducer and transduction principles; Active transducers; Passive transducers;
Transducers for biomedical applications.
UNIT II
Sources of bioelectric potentials
Resting and action potentials; Propagation of action potentials; The bioelectric potentials.
Electrodes
Electrode theory; Biopotential electrodes; Biochemical transducers.
UNIT III
The cardiovascular system
The heart and cardiovascular system; The heart; Blood pressure; Characteristics of blood
flow; Heart sounds.
189
UNIT IV
Cardiovascular measurements
Electrocardiography; Measurement of blood pressure; Measurement of blood flow and
cardiac output; Plethysmography; Measurement of heart sounds.
UNIT V
Patient care and monitoring
The elements of intensive-care monitoring; Diagnosis, calibration, and reparability of patient-
monitoring equipment; Other instrumentation for monitoring patients; The organization of the
hospital for patient-care monitoring.
TEXT BOOK
BioMedical Instrumentation and Measurements by Leslie Cromwell; Publisher: Prentice Hall.
REFERENCE
1. Handbook of Biomedical Instrumentation by Khandpur; Publiser: TMH
2. INSTRUMENTATION by B.E. Noltingk (Part Numbers 1, to 5); Publisher: Butterworth-
Heinemann.
190
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(R11MED1142) INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT
Course Prerequisite: Manufacturing, General Management, Business Economics,
Mathematics & Statistics
Course Objectives:
 Impart about the knowledge of management
 Understand about the knowledge of manufacturability and sustainability growth
 Impart the knowledge on principles of IEM
 Understand about the issues involved in professional practice
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Apply knowledge of Management, mathematics, science, and engineering.
 Evaluates the system, component, or process to meet desired needs within
realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical,
health and safety, manufacturability and sustainability.
 Analyzes and applies the IEM, Communicate effectively, Function on
multidisciplinary teams.
 Solves the contemporary & emerging issues important to professional practice
UNIT I
Introduction to industrial management.
Importance of TQM in industrial management.
Introduction to TQM
Definition; Basic approach; Gurus of TQM;TQM framework; Awareness; Defining quality;
Historical review; Obstacles; Benefits of TQM.
Leadership
Definitions; Characteristics of quality leaders; Leadership concepts; The seven habits of
highly effective people; Ethics; The Deming philosophy; Role of TQM leaders;
Implementation; Quality council; Core values, concepts and framework; Quality statements;
Strategic planning; Communications; Decision making.
Customer satisfaction
Introduction; About the customer; Customer perception of quality; Feedback; Using
customer complaints; Service quality; Translating needs into requirements; Customer
retention; Case study.
191
UNIT II
Employee involvement
Introduction; Motivation; Employee surveys; Empowerment; Teams; Suggestion systems;
Recognition and reward; Gainsharing; Performance appraisal; Unions and employee
involvement; Benefits of employee involvement; Case study.
Continuous process improvement
Introduction; Process; The Juran triology; Improvement strategies; Types of problems; The
PDSA cycle; Problem-solving method; Kaizen; Reengineering; Six-Sigma; Case study.
Supplier partnership
Introduction; Principles of customer/supplier relations; Partnering; Sourcing; Supplier
selection; Supplier certification; Supplier rating; Relationship development; Case study.
UNIT III
Performance measures
Introduction; Basic concepts; Strategy; Performance measure presentation; Quality costs;
Case study.
Benchmarking
Introduction; Definition of benchmarking; Reasons for benchmark; Process; Deciding on
benchmarking; Understanding current performance; Planning; Studying others; Learning
from the data; Using the findings; Pitfalls and criticisms of benchmarking; Case study.
Information technology
Introduction; History; Computers and the quality function; The internet and other electronic
communication; Information quality Issues; Technologies of the future.
Quality management systems
Introduction; Benefits of ISO registration; ISO 9000 series of standards; Sector-specific
standards; ISO 9001 requirements; Implementation; Documentation; Writing the documents;
Internal audits; Registration.
UNIT IV
Environmental management systems (EMS)
Introduction; ISO 14000 series standards; Concepts of ISO 14001; Requirements of ISO
14001; Benefits of EMS; Integrating ISO 14000 with ISO 9000; Relationship to health and
safety; Additional comments; Case study.
Quality function deployment
Introduction; The QFD team; Benefits of QFD; The voice of the customer; Organization of
information; House of quality; Building a house of quality; QFD process; Case study.
192
Quality by design
Introduction; Rationale for implementation; Benefits; Teams; Communication models;
Implementation; Tools; Misconceptions and pitfalls; Case study.
UNIT V
Failure mode and effect analysis (FMEA)
Introduction; Reliability; Reliability requirements; Failure rate; Intent of FMEA; FMEA team;
FMEA documentation; Stages of FMEA; The design FMEA document; The process FMEA
document; Other types of FMEA; FMEA document preparation.
Products liability
Introduction; History; Product safety law; Products liability law; Defences; Proof and the
expert witness; Financial laws; The future of products liability; Prevention; Case study.
Total productive maintenance
Introduction; The plan; Learning the new philosophy; Promoting the philosophy; Training;
Improvement needs; Goal; Developing plans; Autonomous work groups; Case study.
Management tools
Introduction; Purpose; Forced field analysis; Nominal group technique; Affinity diagram;
Interrelationship diagraph; Tree diagram; Matrix diagram; Prioritization of Matrices; Process
decision program chart; Activity network diagram; Case study.
TEXT BOOK
Total Quality Management by Dale H. Besterfield, Carol Besterfield – Michna; Glen H.
Besterfield, and Mary Besterfield – Sacre; Publisher: Pearson Education.
REFERENCE
1. Total Quality Management: An Introductory Text by P.T.J.James; Publisher: Prentice
Hall
2. Total Quality Management: Text, Cases, and Readings by J.E.Ross and S.Perry
193
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(R11MED1143) THEORY OF METAL CUTTING
Course Prerequisites: Production Technology, Machine Tools
Course Objectives:
 Understand the cutting tools geometry and their areas of application based on
principle of cutting.
 Understand cutting forces and their measurement.
 Understand tool wear, replacement strategy and optimization of cutting tool
usage.
 To understand the economics of metal cutting
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
 Analyze a cutting tool, its geometry and arrive at the cutting process.
 Create a cutting tool material and appropriate material to be cut.
 Apply the methods of measuring the cutting forces, temperature and their
significance
 Apply a cutting tool with optimal tool life to maximize material removal rate.
UNIT I
Introduction
Metal cutting; The wedge - the basic shape of any cutting tool; Elements of cutting process;
System of tool nomenclature - tool-in-hand nomenclature, tool reference system, machine
reference system, and assumed feed system;
Geometry of tool shapes - location of cutting edges, orientation of face and flank surfaces,
interrelation between different systems of tool nomenclature, sign conventions, normal rake
angle (γ), clearance angles, a graphical procedure for transference from one system of
n
nomenclature to another, grinding of a single point cutting tool, and comparative merits and
demerits of tool nomenclature systems;
Overview of geometry of drills.
UNIT II
Mechanism of chip formation
Deformation of uncut layer in shear; Mechanism of deformation – fracture, mechanism of
yielding; On the process of chip formation - class of chips, discontinuous chips, continuous
chips without built-up edge, partially continuous chips, element chips, continuous chips with
built-up edge, occurrence of various types of chips, and nature of deformation; The shear
194
plane - shear surface for non-uniform chips, angle of deviation of chip flow, normal chip
reduction coefficient under conditions of oblique cutting, true shear angle, and effective rake
angle; Chip formation process in drilling; Chip formation in milling process; Overview of
determination of cutting strain.
UNIT III
Mechanism of metal cutting
Forces of deformation at the cutting edge; Photo-elastic analysis for observing direction and
magnitude of R during chip formation process; The force system during turning - frictional
force system at the chip tool interface, and force system at the shear plane; Velocity
relationships; Stress in conventional shear plane; Energy of cutting process; The obliquity
effect in restricted cutting; Effect of nose radius; Force analysis during oblique cutting(λ ≠ 0);
Effect of wear land on force system; Overview of the forces in drilling process; Overview of
the force system in milling process; Forces in face milling process.
UNIT IV
Fundamental factors which affect tool forces
On the dynamic shear stress; Correlation τ with standard mechanical tests - determination
s
of τ from hardness tests, and dynamic shear stress of brittle materials; Stagnant
s
phenomenon at contact surface; Rate of shear strain ε - determination bulk stain rate, rate
of deformation at the different layers of stagnant zone, and distribution of strain rate in the
deformation zone; Effect of rate of strain in modifying stress - macroscopic analysis, and
atomistic analysis on strain rate and shear stress by applying ‘dislocation theory’; Kinetic
coefficient of friction and stresses at the chip tool interface - fundamentals of friction
process, on the nature of contact at the chip tool interface, the stresses at the ‘cutting edge’,
distribution of normal stresses at the cutting edge, and distribution of frictional shear stress
at the chip tool interface; Formation of built-up edge and contact phenomenon; Overview of
effect of cutting variables on cutting forces: experimental observations and empirical laws.
UNIT V
Experimental and theoretical determination of cutting forces
Measurement of cutting forces; Certain basic requirements of measuring techniques;
Electrical transducers for force measurement; Survey of various types of cutting force
dynamometers - design requirements, turning dynamometers, drill dynamometers, and
milling and grinding dynamometers; Overview of Theoretical determination of cutting forces;
Development of an equation for the theoretical determination of torque in drilling ductile
materials; Overview of estimation of drill thrust.
195
TEXT BOOK
Principles of Metal Cutting by G.C. Sen and A. Bhattacharya; Publisher: New Central Book
Agency.
REFERENCE
1. Theory of Metal Cutting by Paul Howard Black; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Metal Cutting: Theory and Practice by A. Bhattacharya; Publisher: Jamini Kanta Sen of
Central Book Publishers.
196
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11MED1209) CAD/ CAM LAB
Course Prerequisites: CAD, CAM and SOM.
 Understand the ways in which 2D sketches and 3D models –solid and surface are
made using appropriate CAD packages.
 Know the procedure of building assembly drawings and obtain drafted views from
it.
 Learn the part programming techniques in turning, milling and drilling operations.
 Understand the determination of stresses and strains in systems like trusses and
beams.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Summarize the skills learnt in sketching and modeling using CAD packages
 Design product assemblies and obtain drafted views from it.
 Analyze the stress and strain in various structures.
 Produce components with different features using CNC machines and machining
centers.
12 experiments from the following syllabus:
1. Part Modeling: Generation of 3D models of various parts using feature based and
parametric software;
Creation of various features; Study of parent child relation;
Surface and assembly modeling; Study of various standard translators.
2. Finite element analysis
a) Determination of deflection and stresses in 2D and 3D trusses and beams.
b) Determination Principal/ Von-Mises stresses and deflections, in plane stress/
plane strain/ axisymmetric models.
c) Determination of stresses in 3D and shell structures.
d) Estimation of natural frequencies and mode shapes, and harmonic response of
2D beam.
3. Computer aided manufacturing
a) Development of process sheets for various components.
b) Development of manufacturing and tool management systems.
c) Study of various post processors used in NC Machines.
d) Development of NC code for turning and milling jobs using CAM packages.
197
e) Machining of simple components on NC lathe and Mill by transferring NC Code/
from a CAM package through RS 232.
f) Quality Control and inspection.
198
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(R11EIE1210) AUTOMATION SYSTEMS DESIGN LABORATORY
Course Prerequisites: Computer Interfaces (Serial & Parallel), Basic Digital Electronics,
Labview Software
Course Objectives:
 Impart the knowledge on basic labview programming
 Understand about digital electronics
 Understand about the knowledge on PLC
 Understand about sensors and measurements
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Understand about the knowledge on different types of sensors / transducers used
in industries
 Apply the knowledge on ladder logic programming
 Apply the knowledge on labVIEW programming
Twelve experiments from the following:
1. Simple programs for acquisition of sensory data into a PC, using LabVIEW software:
(a) Analog signal
(b) Digital signal
2. Serial and parallel ports - hardware interfaces for PC based acquisition of sensory
data:
(a) RS232 interface
(b) GPIB interface
3. Conversion of sensory data from analog to digital form and vice versa
(a) D/A converter
(b) A/D converter
4. Placement and installation of sensors in automation systems: examples of sensors –
load cell, accelerometer, thermocouple etc.
5. Programming for control of valves and DC motor:
(a) On/ Off control valve
(b) Linear control valve
(c) Equal percentage control valve
(d) DC motor
6. Control circuits for an automation system.
7. Electrical design specifications (including wiring) for an automation system.
8. Programming for control of automation systems using LabVIEW software.
9. PLC programming for control of automation systems.
199
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(R11MED1144) COMPUTER INTEGRATED MANUFACTURING
Course Prerequisites: Automation in Manufacturing
Course Objectives:
 To understand the latest techniques in manufacturing and learning their
procedures
 To assess the importance of classification and coding systems used in
manufacturing as a part of group technology
 To understand , analyze and measure all the quality control methodologies in
manufacturing
 To know the latest dynamic environments in manufacturing such as JIT, lean,
agile etc.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Evaluate the NC, CNC, DNC and Robotic Procedures and related technologies.
 Evaluate the philosophies of Group technology and thereby learning FMS
Scenario in the context of GT.
 Apply the various traditional and modern quality control methodologies for solving
problems statistically using computer.
 Evaluate the concepts of Product and Process design in the dynamic
manufacturing environments of Lean and JIT Environments.
AUTOMATION AND CONTROL TECHNOLOGIES
UNIT I
Numerical control
Fundamentals of NC technology; Computer numerical control; Distributed numerical control;
Applications of NC; Engineering analysis of NC positioning systems; NC part programming;
Coding for manual part programming; Part programming with APT.
Industrial robotics
Robot anatomy and related attributes; Robot control systems; End effectors; Sensors in
robotics; Industrial robot applications; Robot programming; Robot accuracy and repeatability.
UNIT II
Discrete control using programmable logic controllers and personal computers
Discrete process control; Ladder logic diagrams; Programmable logic controllers; Personal
computers using soft logic.
200
MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS
Cellular manufacturing
Part families; Parts classification and coding; Production flow analysis; Cellular
manufacturing; Applications of group technology; Quantitative analysis in cellular
manufacturing.
Flexible manufacturing systems
Flexible manufacturing systems; FMS components; FMS applications and benefits; FMS
planning and implementation issues; Quantitative analysis of Flexible manufacturing
systems.
QUALITY CONTROL IN MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS
UNIT III
Quality programs for manufacturing
Quality in design and manufacturing; Traditional and modern quality control; Process
variability and process capability; Statistical Process Control; Six sigma; The Six sigma
DMAIC procedure; Taguchi Methods in quality Engineering; ISO 9000.
Inspection principles and practices
Inspection fundamentals; Sampling vs. 100% inspection; Automated inspection; When and
where to inspect; Quality analysis of inspection.
Inspection technologies
Inspection metrology; Contact vs. noncontact inspection techniques; Conventional
measuring and gaging techniques; Coordinate measuring machines; Surface measurement;
Machine vision; Other optical inspection techniques; Noncontact non optical inspection
technologies.
MANUFACTURING SUPPORT SYSTEMS
UNIT IV
Product design and CAD/CAM in the production systems
Product design and CAD; CAD system hardware; CAM, CAD/CAM, and CIM; Quality
function deployment.
Process planning and concurrent engineering
Process planning; Computer-aided process planning; Concurrent engineering and design
and manufacturing; Advanced manufacturing planning.
UNIT V
Production planning and control systems
Aggregate production planning and the master production schedule; Material requirement
planning; Capacity planning; Shop floor control; Inventory control; Extensions of MRP.
Just-in-time and lean production
Lean production and waste in manufacturing; Just-in Time production systems;
Autonomation; Worker involvement.
201
TEXT BOOK
Automation, Production Systems and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing by Mikell P.
Groover; Publisher: Pearson Education/Prentice Hall.
REFERENCE
1. Principles of Computer Aided Design and Manufacturing by Farid Amirouche;
Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. CAD/CAM/CIM by Radhakrishnan and Subramanyam; Publisher: New Age Publishers.
202
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 0 3
(R11MED1145) NANOTECHNOLOGY
Course Prerequisites: Physics, Metallurgy, Composite Materials
Course Objectives:
 Understand about the importance of nanotechnology
 Understand about the knowledge on Nano Materials
 Understand about the nanotubes and Nano materials
 Understand about the applications of nano science in various sectors
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Create solutions in engineering, biotechnology and manufacturing by identifying
current nanotechnology.
 Apply the fundamental knowledge of science to characterize the Nano Materials.
 Synthesize carbon Nano tubes and Nano materials.
 Evaluate tools in Nano science for applications in various sectors.
UNIT I
Introduction to nanotechnology.
Introduction to physics of the solid state
Structure - size dependence of properties, crystal structures, face-centered cubic
nanoparticles, tetrahedrally bonded semiconductor structures, and lattice vibrations;
Energy bands - insulators, semiconductors, conductors, reciprocal space, energy bonds and
gaps of semiconductors, effective masses, and Fermi surfaces; Localized particles -
donors, acceptors, deep traps, mobility, and excitons.
UNIT II
Methods of measuring properties
Introduction; Structure - atomic structures, crystallography, particle size
determination, and surface structure; Microscopy - transmission electron
microscopy, field ion microscopy, scanning microscopy; Spectroscopy - Infrared and
Raman spectroscopy, Photoemission and X-ray spectroscopy, and Magnetic resonance.
203
UNIT III
Properties of individual nanoparticles
Introduction; Metal nanoclusters - magic numbers, theoretical modeling of nanoparticles,
geometric structure, electronic structure, reactivity, fluctuations, magnetic clusters, and bulk
to nanotransition; Semi conducting nanoparticles - optical properties, photofragmentation,
and Coulombic explosion; Rare gas and molecular clusters- inert gas cluster,
superfluid clusters, and molecular clusters; Methods of synthesis - RF plasma, chemical
methods, thermolysis, and pulsed laser methods.
UNIT IV
Carbon nanostructures
Introduction; Carbon molecules - nature of the carbon bond, and new carbon
structures; Carbon clusters – small carbon clusters, discovery of C , structure of C and
60 60
its crystal, alkali doped C , superconductivity in C , larger and smaller
60 60
fullerenes, and other buckyballs; Carbon nano tubes - fabrication, structure, electrical
properties, vibrational properties, and mechanical properties; Applications of
carbon nanotubes - field emission/shielding, computers, fuel cells, chemical
sensors, catalysis, and mechanical reinforcement.
UNIT V
Bulk nanostructured materials
Solid disordered nano structures - methods of synthesis, failure mechanisms of
conventional grain-sized materials, mechanical properties, nanostructured multilayers,
electrical properties, other properties, metal nanocluster composite glasses, and porous
silicon; Nanostructured crystals - natural nanocrystals, computational prediction of
cluster lattices, arrays of nanoparticles in zeolites, crystals of metal
nanoparticles, nanoparticle lattices in colloidal suspensions, and photonic crystals
TEXT BOOK
Introduction to Nanotechnology by Charles P. Poole Jr. and Frank J. Ovens; Publisher: John
Wiley.
REFERENCE
Springer Handbook of Nanotechnology by Bharat Bhusan.
204
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 0 3
(R11MED1146) THEORY OF PLATES AND SHELLS
Course Prerequisites: Strength of Materials
Course Objectives:
 Understand about the knowledge of membrane, plates and shells
 Understand about the theories of membrane plates and shells
 Understand about static, dynamic, and non-linear motion of membrane, plate and
shell structures
 Understand about numerical approximations
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Apply the structural mechanics approximations of membrane, plates and shells.
 Derive simple modifications to the membrane plate and shell theories.
 Use analysis to determine the static, dynamic, and non-linear motion of
membrane, plate and shell structures.
 Compute numerical approximations.
UNIT I
Bending of long rectangular plates to a cylindrical surface
Differential equation for cylindrical bending of plates; Cylindrical bending of uniformly loaded
rectangular with simply supported edges; Cylindrical bending of a uniformly loaded
rectangular plates with built-in edges; The effect on stresses and deflections of small
displacements of longitudinal edges in the plane of the plate. An approximate method of
calculating the parameter u; Long uniformly loaded rectangular plates having a small initial
cylindrical curvature; Cylindrical bending of a plate on an elastic foundation.
UNIT II
Pure bending of plates
Slope and curvature of slightly bent plates; Relations between bending moments and
curvature in pure bending of plates; Particular cases of pure bending; Strain energy in pure
bending of plates; Limitations on the application of the derived formulas; Thermal stresses in
plates with clamped edges.
Symmetrical bending of circular plates
Differential equation for symmetrical bending of laterally loaded circular plates; Uniformly
loaded circular plates; Circular plate with a circular hole at the center; Circular plate
concentrically loaded; Circular plate loaded at the center; Corrections to the elementary
theory of symmetrical bending of circular plates.
205
UNIT III
Small deflections of laterally loaded plates
The differential equation of the deflection surface; Boundary conditions; Alternate method of
derivation of the boundary conditions; Reduction of the problem of bending of a plate to that
of deflection of a membrane; Effect of elastic constants on the magnitude of bending
moments; Exact theory of plates.
UNIT IV
Simply supported rectangular plates
Simply supported rectangular plates under sinusoidal load; Navier solution for simply
supported rectangular plates; Further applications of the Navier solution; Alternate solution
for simply supported and uniformly loaded rectangular plates; Simply supported rectangular
plates under hydrostatic pressure; Simply supported rectangular plate under a load in the
form of a triangular prism; Partially loaded simply supported rectangular plate; Concentrated
load on a simply supported rectangular plate.
UNIT V
(Contd) Simply supported rectangular plates
Bending moments in a simply supported rectangular plate with a concentrated load;
Rectangular plates of infinite length with simply supported edges; Bending moments in
simply supported rectangular plates under a load uniformly distributed over the area of a
triangle; Thermal stresses in simply supported rectangular plates; The effect of transverse
shear deformation on the bending of thin plates; Rectangular plates of variable thickness.
Overview of stresses in rotational elements like rings, disks, disk of uniform strength
TEXT BOOK
Theory of Plates and Shells (International edition) by S.P.Timoshenko and S. Woinowsky –
Krieger; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
206
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 0 3
(R11MED1147) PRODUCTION PLANNING AND CONTROL
Course Prerequisites: Operations Research
Course Objectives:
 To understand the manufacturing planning systems in a shop floor
 To assess the importance of several stocks and the techniques of managing the
inventory
 To analyze scheduling related problems in job shop, batch shop based on certain
algorithms
 To know the future prospects in production planning and learning the concerned
research associated with planning
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Describe (identify/write) the various components that make up the manufacturing
planning and control system and the interaction among them.
 Develop the models that are applicable for supply chain inventory management,
including those for quantity discounts, safety stocks, and order quantity and
reorder point interactions.
 Develop the algorithms that are appropriate for solving single-machine, two-
machine, parallel- machines and flow shop scheduling problems
 Identify, discuss, and implement important research topics within production
planning and control.
GENERAL
UNIT I
Functions of production planning and control (PPC)
Introduction; Materials; Methods; Machines and equipments; Routing; Estimating; Loading
and scheduling; Dispatching; Expediting; Inspection; Evaluating;
Broad categories of functions of production planning and control - Preplanning, planning and
control; Other industrial engineering functions that have interdependency with PPC - Plant
layout, simplification and standardization, time and motion study, and Inventory control.
Manufacturing systems
Types of production - job production, batch production, and continuous production; Size of
pants; Types of industry.
207
Production procedure
The production cycle; Coordination of production decisions - the product, the components
and assemblies (or semi finished products), the means (7 M’s; management: skill and
potentialities; manpower; management: finance planning; matrix; materials; methods;
machines); Departmental responsibilities.
Organization
Department sectionalization - Production planning, production control, and inventory control;
Variations on the conventional pattern of organization – motion and time study, standards
section, transportation section, and central statistics office; Centralized and decentralized
production planning and control.
PREPLANNING
Product development and design
Company policy – Effect of competition on design, and long-range planning;
Product analysis – marketing aspect, and the product characteristics (functional aspect;
operational aspect; durability and dependability; aesthetic aspect);
Economic analysis – profit and competitiveness, the three S’s (simplification; specialization;
standardization; preferred numbers), the break-even analysis, and the economics of a new
design; Production aspect.
UNIT II
Sales forecasting and estimating
About forecasting;
Restrictions of consumption – the product and its limitations, the consumer and his potential
buying power, analysis of competition (competing for a share of the market), saturation
(selling to satisfy demand; replacement), distribution and promotion methods (advertising;
effectiveness of distribution channels; terms of sale), and state of business (pricing policies;
business cycles);
Making the forecast – the market share, sales trend analysis, forecasting in seasonal
demand, a trend analysis in seasonal demand, the use of indicators and correlation
analysis, and combination of methods;
Effects of forecast on the production order; Accuracy of forecasts; Case studies in sales
forecasting.
Plant layout
Introduction; Flow systems – horizontal flow lines (I-flow, L-flow, U-flow, S-flow, O-flow,
unidirectional or retractional flow, integration of flow lines into an assembly line), and vertical
flow lines (processing downwards or upwards; centralized or decentralized elevation;
unidirectional or retractional flow; vertical or inclined flow; single or multiflow; flow between
buildings);
208
Types of layouts – classification (product layout; process layout; static product layout),
machine layout, materials handling, effect of automation on layout, symptoms of a bad
layout, factors to be considered in layout planning, and templates and models.
Evaluation of materials and methods
Introduction; Value analysis – consideration of new techniques and materials;
Efficient utilization and selection of materials – criteria for selection of materials, machine
speeds, hot processes, machine speeds, hot processes, surface characteristics, new
materials, dimensional specifications, material utilization of a shop or a process, analysis of
processes, and case studies; Design for production – scope of modifications.
PLANNING
UNIT III
The production order
Schematic process outlines, process, and activity charts;
Production master programs – required data, long-term planning, programming component
production; Operation and route sheets; Breakline of the production order; Stock planning;
Basic production planning problems.
Quantities in batch production
Stock control; Definition of batch sizes; Minimum cost batch size – formulae, raymond’s
formula, lehoczky’s formula, davis formula, use of formula, use of a monograph, a graphical
method, a modified graphical method, equating the variable costs; The production range –
determination of the production range, and effect on production costs; Maximum-profit batch
size; Maximum return; Maximum rate of return; Comparison of the various criteria.
Batch-size determination under boundary conditions
Abrupt changes in the constant cost term, c; Breaks in the carrying cost factor, K; Breaks in
the preparation costs; Combined breaks.
Machine capacity – typical problems.
UNIT IV
Scheduling
Forms of schedules – loading and scheduling, and basic scheduling problems;
Flow production scheduling for fluctuating demand – decision process, and production
loading; Multiproduct scheduling in batch production;
The assignment problems – Distribution according to capacity, cost of operating production
facilities, and effects of overtime or subcontracting;
Scheduling orders with random arrivals – problems of random-order scheduling, the
simulation technique, other applications of the simulation technique; Product sequencing –
sequence analysis, and minimum processing time.
209
Batch production scheduling
Introduction – sequence of batches; Optimizing the production schedule – maintaining stock
level, specifying batch sizes, minimum costs per unit, maximium profit for the whole
schedule, maximum returns to the whole schedule, and maximum rate of return for the
whole schedule; Deriving a realistic solution – procedure; Multischeduling six products-a
case study – preliminary data and first solution, determining the production range, testing
the solution, methods of leading to modified solutions, increase the consumption period,
relaxation of the production ranges, increase the capacity of the plant, modify the
requirements, and relaxation of p for two-cycle production plans; Application of the theory to
assembly work.
CONTROL
UNIT V
Elements of control procedures
Stages and activities of control – control of processes and production activities, quantity or
inventory control, quality control, cost control; Dispatching and expediting; Recording
progress – visual charts, and cumulative and weekly charts.
Computer-assisted production control
Introduction – computer requirements, and computer types and operation; Media for
recording data – sales information, production control, payroll and assignment, and
materials control; Installation of a computer-assisted production control system – sales
analysis, product and materials analysis, schedule analysis, and designing a new
procedure; Programming; Applications – stock control, and control of job production.
Inventory control
Significance; Effect of demand on inventories – restrictions on output increase, stock control
systems, ordering procedures, the two-bin system, the ordering cycle system, and
combinations of the two-bin and the ordering cycle systems; Reorder quantity – reorder
range, effect of splitting an order; Reorder procedure – reorder point in the two-bin system,
and reorder procedure in the cycle system; Effect of uncertainity – insufficient supply to
customers, and insufficient supply to assembly line; Comparison of replenishment policies -
the optimistic policy, the realistic policy, and the pessimistic policy.
TEXT BOOK
Elements of Production Planning and Control by Samuel Eilon; Publisher: Universal
Publishing Corporation (UPC).
REFERENCE
1. Fundamentals of Production Planning and Control by S.N.Chapman; Publisher:
Pearson Education.
210
2. Operations Management by Chase; Publisher: PHI.
211
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 0 3
(R11MED1148) REFRIGERATION AND AIR CONDITIONING
Course Prerequisites: Thermodynamics, Heat & Mass Transfer
Course Objectives:
 Understand the fundamentals of Thermodynamics and its relative laws and effect
on the system.
 Understand the concept of Heat and Mass Transfer on the system.
 Understand the various Thermodynamic cycles used in the Refrigeration and AC
systems
 Understand about the performance of air conditioning system
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Develop and analyze a system which totally based on the refrigeration concept.
 Apply the basic principles on the Thermodynamics to solve an engineering
problem related to Refrigeration and Air conditioning.
 Select suitable Refrigeration cycle and apply the concept of Heat and Mass
Transfer and obtain the result.
 Develop and Evaluate the performance of air conditioning system
UNIT I
Applications of refrigeration and air conditioning
Major uses; Air conditioning of medium-sized and large buildings; Industrial air conditioning;
Residential air conditioning; Air conditioning of vehicles; Food storage and distribution; Food
processing; Chemical and process industries; Special applications of refrigeration.
Thermal principles
Roots of refrigeration and air conditioning; Concepts, models, and laws; Thermodynamic
properties; Thermodynamic processes; Conservation of mass; Steady-flow energy
equation; Heating and cooling; Adiabatic process; Compression work; Isentropic
compression; Bernoulli’s equation; Heat transfer; Conduction; Radiation; Convection;
Thermal resistance; Cylindrical cross section; Heat exchangers; Heat-transfer processes
used by the human body; Metabolism; Convection; Radiation; Evaporation.
UNIT II
Psychrometry and wetted-surface heat transfer
Importance; Review of psychrometric chart, saturation line, relative humidity, and humidity
ratio; Enthalpy; Specific volume; Combined heat and mass transfer; The straight-line law;
Adiabatic saturation and thermodynamic wet-bulb temperature; Deviation between enthalpy
and wet-bulb lines; Wet-bulb thermometer; Processes; Comment on the basis of 1 kg of dry
air; Transfer of sensible and latent heat with a wetted surface; Enthalpy potential; Insights
provided by enthalpy potential.
212
Heating- and cooling-load calculations
Introduction; Health and comfort criteria; Thermal comfort; Air quality; Estimating heat loss
and heat gain; Design conditions; Thermal transmission; Infiltration and ventilation loads;
Summary of procedure for estimating heating loads; Components of the cooling load;
Internal loads; Solar loads through transparent surfaces; Solar loads on opaque surfaces;
Summary of procedures for estimating cooling loads.
UNIT III
Air conditioning systems
Thermal distribution systems; Classic single-zone system; Outdoor-air control; Single-zone-
system design calculations; Multiple-zone systems; Terminal-reheat system; Dual-duct or
multi-zone system; Variable-air-volume systems; Water systems; Unitary systems.
UNIT IV
The vapor compression cycle
Most important refrigeration cycle; Carnot refrigeration cycle; Coefficient of performance;
Refrigerant; Condition for highest coefficient of performance; Temperature limitations;
Carnot heat pump; Using vapor as a refrigerant; Revisions of the Carnot cycle; Wet
compression versus dry compression; Expansion process, Standard vapor-compression
cycle; Properties of refrigerants; Performance of the standard vapor-compression cycle.
UNIT V
Vapor-compression system analysis
Balance points and system simulation; Reciprocating compressor; Condenser performance;
Condensing-unit subsystem - graphic analysis, and mathematical analysis; Evaporator
performance; Performance of complete system – graphic analysis; Simulation of complete
system – mathematical analysis; Some performance trends; The expansion device;
Sensitivity analysis; Introduction to Refrigerants.
Absorption refrigeration
Relation of the Absorption to the vapor-compression cycle; The absorption cycle; coefficient
of performance of the ideal absorption cycle; Temperature-pressure-concentration
properties of LiBr-water solutions; Calculation of mass flow rates in the absorption cycle;
Enthalpy of Li-Br solution; Thermal analysis of simple absorption system; Absorption cycle
with heat exchangers; Configurations of commercial absorption units; Crystallization;
Capacity control; Double-effect system; Steam-driven combination with vapor compression;
Aqua-ammonia system; Role of the absorption unit in refrigeration practice.
TEXT BOOK
Refrigeration and Air Conditioning by Wilbert F. Stoecker and Jerold W.Jones; Publisher:
McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
1. Principles of Refrigeration by Dossat; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Technology by W.C.Whitman, W.M.Jhonson, and
J.Tomczyk.
3. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning by C.P. Aurora; Publisher: TMH.
213
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 0 3
(R11MED1149) OPERATIONS RESEARCH
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Industrial Engineering
Course Objectives:
 To impart the knowledge on solving problems Assignment, Transportation,
Sequencing, Replacement, Inventory and Queuing problems
 Understand the knowledge on theory of games
 Impart the knowledge on linear programming
 Understand the knowledge involved in dynamic programming and simulation
models
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Analyze Assignment, Transportation, Sequencing, Replacement, Inventory and
Queuing problems.
 Apply Theory of games in various applications.
 Evaluate the Problems using Linear Programming.
 Apply dynamic programming problem solving and simulation models.
UNIT I
Introduction
The origins of operations research; The nature of operations research; The impact of
operations research; Algorithms and OR courseware.
Overview of the operations research modeling approach
Defining the problem and gathering data; Formulating a mathematical model; Deriving
solutions from the model; Testing the model; Preparing to apply the model; Implementation;
Conclusions.
UNIT II
Introduction to linear programming
Applications; The linear programming model; Assumptions of linear programming; Some
classic case studies; Formulating and solving linear programming models on a spreadsheet;
Formulating very large linear programming models.
214
UNIT III
Solving linear programming problems: the simplex method
The essence of the simplex method; Setting up the simplex method; The algebra of the
simplex method; The simplex method in tabular form; Tie breaking in the simplex method;
Adapting to other model forms; Postoptimality analysis; Computer implementation; The
interior-point approach to solving linear programming problems; Case studies.
The theory of the simplex method
Foundations of the simplex method; the revised simplex method; A fundamental insight.
UNIT IV
Duality theory and sensitivity analysis
The essence of duality theory; Economic interpretation of duality; Primal-dual relationships;
Adapting to other primal forms; The role of duality theory in sensitivity analysis; The essence
of sensitivity analysis; Applying sensitivity analysis; Performing sensitivity analysis on a
spreadsheet; Case studies.
The transportation and assignment problems
Transportation problem; a streamlined simplex method for the transportation problem;
Assignment problem.
UNIT V
Network optimization models
Applications; The terminology of networks; The shortest- path problem; The minimum
spanning tree problem; The maximum flow problem; The minimum cost flow problem; The
network simplex method; a network model for optimizing a projects time-cost trade-off; Case
Studies.
Dynamic programming
A prototype example for dynamic programming; Characteristics of dynamic programming
problems; Deterministic dynamic programming; Probability dynamic programming.
TEXT BOOK
Introduction to Operations Research by Frederick Hillier and Gerald Libermann; Publisher:
McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
1. Operations Research by Wagner; Publisher: PHI.
2. Operations Research by J.K.Sharma, 3rd edition; Publisher: MacMillan
3. Operations Research: A Practical Introduction by M.W.Carter and C.C.Price;
Publisher: CRC Press.
215
4. Operations Research: Methods and Problems by Maurice Saseini, Arthur Yaspan and
Lawrence Friedman
5. The Operations Research Problem Solver by Research and Education Association;
Publisher: Research and Education Associates.
216
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 0 3
(R11MED1150) TOOL DESIGN
Course Prerequisites: Design Principles, Machine Tools, Process Engineering
Course Objectives:
 Understand the properties of tool materials such as ferrous, non ferrous, non
metallic materials and their heat treatment .
 To design single and multi point cutting tools for various applications
 Must gain the knowledge of designing Jigs and Fixtures.
 Understand design of sheet metal tools for blanking, piercing, bending, forming
and drawing etc.
Course Outcomes:
Students should be able to:
 Evaluate single and multi point cutting tools for various methods.
 Analyze design for jigs and fixtures for several components depending on quantity
requirement.
 Analyze the sheet metal tools for blanking, piercing, bending, forming and drawing.
 Apply an appropriate heat treatment for the tools.
UNIT I
Tool materials and heat treatment
Introduction; Properties of materials; Tool steels; Cast iron; Mild or low carbon steels; Non
metallic tooling materials; Nonferrous tooling materials; Heat treating; Appearance of
carbon in steel; Factors affecting heat treatment; Heat treatment and tool design.
UNIT II
Design of cutting tools
Introduction; A brief history of metal cutting; The metal cutting process - the basic
requirements of a cutting tool, mechanism and geometry of chip formation, general
considerations for metal cutting; Metal cutting tools - single point cutting tools, milling
cutters, drills and drilling, types of drills, reamers, reamer classification, taps, tap
classification; The selection of carbide cutting tools - carbide tools, determining shank size
for single point carbide tools; Determining the insert thickness for carbide tools.
UNIT III
Gages and gage design
Introduction; Fixed gages; Gage tolerances; The selection of material for gages; Indicating
gages; Automatic gages.
217
Locating and clamping methods
Introduction; the basic principles of location; locating methods and devices; The basic
principles of clamping.
UNIT IV
Design of drill jigs
Introduction; Definition of a drill jig; Types of drill jigs; Chip formation in drilling; General
considerations in the design of drill jigs; Drill bushing; Methods of construction; Drill jigs and
modern manufacturing.
UNIT V
Design of fixtures
Introduction; Fixtures and economics; Types of fixtures - vice fixtures, milling fixtures, boring
fixtures, broaching fixtures, lathe fixtures, grinding fixtures.
TEXT BOOK
Tool Design by Cyril Donaldson, George H. LeCain, and V.C. Goold; Publisher: Tata
McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
Fundamentals of Tool Design by David Spitler, Jeff Lantrip, J.G.Nee, D.A.Smith; Publisher:
Society of Manufacturing Engineers.
218
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective VI 3 0 3
(R11MED1151) BIOMECHANICS AND BIOMATERIALS
Course Prerequisites: Mechanics of Solids, Metallurgy and Material Science
Course Objectives:
 Understand about the mechanical and anatomical terminology
 Impart the knowledge on tissues
 Impart the knowledge on forces involved in skeletal joint
 Understand about the motion of the human body
Course Outcomes:
Students should be able to:
 Describe motion with precise, well-defined mechanical and anatomical
terminology.
 Identify relationships between structure and function in tissues and the
implications/importance of these relationships.
 Analyze the forces at a skeletal joint for various static and dynamic human
activities.
 Analyze the structure, function and motion of the human body as well as evaluate
basic principles of human skeletal muscle mechanics.
BIOMECHANICS
UNIT I
Introduction to biomechanics
Biomechanics; Historical background; Mechanics in physiology; Contributions of
biomechanics made to health science; Method of approach; Tools of investigation;
Contribution of biomechanics made to mechanics; Law of Laplace.
UNIT II
Constitutive equation
Introduction; Stress; Strain; Strain Rate; Introduction to constitutive equations; Non-viscous
fluid; Newtonian viscous fluid; Hookean elastic solid; Effect of temperature; Materials with
complex mechanical behaviour; Viscoelasticity; Response of a viscoelastic body to
harmonic excitation; Viscoelastic models; Methods of testing; Mathematical development.
219
UNIT III
Soft tissues
Introduction; Some elastic materials – Actin, Elastin, Fixation of elastin in aldehyde, Elastin
molecule, Resilin and abduction, Elasticity due to entropy and internal energy changes,
fibres, crystallization due to strain; Collagen..
BIOMATERIALS
Introduction to biomaterials
Definition of biomaterials; Performance of biomaterials; Historical background.
UNIT IV
Structure of solids
Atomic bonding; Crystal structure; Imperfections in crystalline structures; Long-chain
molecular compounds; Supercooled and network Solids; Composite material structure;
UNIT V
Metallic implant materials
Stainless steels; Co-based alloys; Ti and Ti based alloys; Dental metals; Other metals;
Corrosion of metallic implants.
Ceramic implant materials
Structure-property relationship of ceramics; Aluminum oxides; Zirconuim oxides; Calcium
phosphate; Glass ceramics; Other ceramics; Carbons; Deterioration of ceramics.
TEXT BOOK
For BioMechanics Part:
Mechanical Properties of Living Tissues by Y.C.Fung; Publisher: Springer
For BioMaterials Part:
BioMaterials: An Introduction by Joon Park and R.S.Lakes; Publisher: Springer
220
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective VI 3 0 3
(R11MED1152) PRECISION ENGINEERING
Course Prerequisites: Metrology, Machine Drawing
Course Objectives:
 Understand about the knowledge on geometric dimensioning and tolerancing
 Understand about the concepts involved in process capability
 Impart the knowledge on inspection components
 Impart the knowledge on precision machines
Course Outcomes:
Students should be able to:
 Apply fundamental knowledge of machine tool accuracy and geometric
dimensioning for component s.
 Apply the concept of process capability while choosing the machine.
 Decide on measuring system for inspection components.
 Apply the acquired knowledge to design precision machines and other fields as well.
UNIT I
Introduction to precision machine design
Significance;
Fundamentals of economic analysis - cashflow timelines, compound interest factors,
economic analysis of projects, machine cost determination, machine operator costs, and
case studies;
Overview of project management (theory and implementation);
The design of a design engineer - what makes a good design engineer, how to keep
informed, formulating a personal design methodology, developing conceptual designs, self
principles, choice of the design possibilities, safety considerations, design plan for a
machine tool, and the moral responsibility of a design engineer.
UNIT II
Case studies
Design case study - A high speed machining center (HSMC) - Initiation of the design
process, definition of machine function and specifications, conceptual design of the HSMC,
detailed design (sources of error; linear bearing selection; actuators; axis drive motors;
spindle design; structural design; hydraulic and pneumatic support systems; and sensor
systems).
Design case study - A coordinate measuring machine (CMM) - Foundation of functional
specifications, technology assessment, design evolution of the Apollo Ring Bridge CMM;
Design of the Apollo CMM (sources of error; machine geometry; machine dynamics; thermal
221
effects; work piece effects; mechanical systems design; sensor and electronic systems;
design follow-up).
UNIT III
Principles of accuracy, repeatability, and resolution
Introduction - Accuracy, repeatability, resolution, and amplification of angular errors;
Overview of formulating the system error budget.
Quasi-static mechanical errors - geometric errors, kinematic errors, external load-induced
errors (errors caused by gravity; errors caused by accelerating axes; errors caused by
cutting forces; load induced errors from machine assembly; errors caused by thermal
expansion; case studies of thermal expansion; identification, control, and isolation of heat
sources); Errors caused by material instability; Instrumentation errors;
Errors caused by dynamic forces - structural vibration, and frictional errors;
Design case study - Carriage straightness errors caused by leadscrew misalignment –
forced geometric congruience, and effect of constant axial and torsional leadscrew stiffness
on system compliance.
UNIT IV
Analog sensors
Introduction - sensor definitions, and system dynamics.
Nonoptical sensor systems
Capacitance sensors - use of capacitance sensors, probe design for capacitance sensors,
and typical characteristics of capacitance sensors;
Hall effect sensors - magnets for Hall effect sensors, typical applications, and typical
characteristics of Hall effect sensors;
Inclinometers; Inductive digital On/Off proximity sensors; Inductive distance measuring
sensors;
Inductosyns – typical linear and rotary inductosyn characteristics, and typical characteristics
of LVDTs and RVDTs; Linear and Rotary variable differential transformers; Magnetic scales;
Magnetostrictive sensors – noncontact torsion sensors, linear position sensors, and typical
properties of linear motion magnetostrictive effect sensors; Mechanical switches;
Overview of piezoelectric material based sensors; Potentiometers;
Ultrasonic sensors; Velocity sensors (linear velocity transducers, tachometers, typical
characteristics of DC tachometers).
UNIT V
Sensor mounting and calibration
Introduction; Sensor location – linear displacement sensors, and angular displacement
sensors; Sensor alignment; Sensor mounting structure design; Sensor mounting
environment;
Contact between curved surfaces – approximate solution for point contact between objects,
allowable contact stress, rolling contact stress considerations, fretting corrosion, “Exact”
solution for point contact between objects, line contact between objects, and tangential
stiffness of the contact interface;
Metrology frames; Sensor calibration.
222
TEXT BOOK
Precision Machine Design by Alexander H. Slocum; Publisher: Prentice Hall.
REFERENCE
1. Precision Manufacturing by David Dornfeld and Dae-Eun Lee; Publisher: Springer.
2. Machine Tools for High Performance Machining (Volume 10) by L.N.L.D. Lacalle and
A. Lamikiz; Publisher: Springer.
223
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective VI 3 0 3
(R11MED1153) PRINCIPLES OF ENTERPRENEURSHIP
Course Prerequisites: General Management & Financial Accounting concepts,
Enthusiasm towards Entrepreneurship
Course Objectives:
 Understand the entrepreneurial process involved in creating, managing a new
enterprise.
 Understand the background and tools necessary to participate in
the entrepreneurial process
 Understand fundamental business framework.
Course Outcomes:
Students should be able to:
 Identify the key steps required for exploiting an innovative idea or opportunity to
develop an existing business, launch a new venture, or initiate a social enterprise.
 Recognize and evaluate business opportunities under dynamic economic
settings.
 Identify and create opportunities to solve entrepreneurial issues while starting an
enterprise.
 Master the relevance of entrepreneurship to the economic development of the
nation especially regarding job creation and poverty alleviation in general
THE ENTREPRENEURIAL PERSPECTIVE
UNIT I
The nature and importance of entrepreneurs
Sample profile; Nature and development of entrepreneurship; Definition of entrepreneurship;
The entrepreneurial decision process - change from present lifestyle, desirability of new
venture formation, and possibility of new venture formation; Types of start-ups; Role of
entrepreneurship in economic development - government as an innovator, intrapreneurship,
and entrepreneurship; Entrepreneurial careers and education; Ethics and social
responsibility of entrepreneurs; The future of entrepreneurship.
The entrepreneurial and intrapreneurial mind
Sample profile; The entrepreneurial process - identify and evaluate the opportunity, develop
a business plan, determine the resources required, and manage the enterprise; Managerial
versus entrepreneurial decision making - strategic orientation, commitment to opportunity,
commitment of resources, control of resources, and management structure; Causes for
interest in intrapreneurship; Corporate versus intrapreneurial culture; Climate for
intrapreneurship; Intrapreneurial leadership characteristics; Establishing intrapreneurship in
the organization; Problems and successful efforts.
The individual entrepreneur
224
Sample profile; Entrepreneurial feelings - locus of control, feelings about independence and
need for achievement, and risk taking; Entrepreneur background and characteristics -
childhood family environment, education, personal values, age, and work history;
Motivation; Role models and support systems - moral-support network, and professional-
support network; Male versus female entrepreneurs; Minority entrepreneurship;
Entrepreneurs versus inventors.
International entrepreneurship opportunities
Sample profile; The nature of international entrepreneurship; The importance of international
business to the firm; International versus domestic entrepreneurship - economics, stage of
economic development, balance of payments, type of system, political-legal environment,
cultural environment, technological environment, and strategic issues; Entrepreneurial entry
into international business - exporting, nonequity arrangements, and direct foreign
investment; Barriers to international trade - general agreements on tariffs and trade,
Increasing protectionist attitudes, Trade blocs and free trade areas; Entrepreneur's strategy
and trade barriers, and entrepreneurial partnering; Case studies for “The entrepreneurial
perspective”.
CREATING AND STARTING THE VENTURE
UNIT II
Creativity and the business idea
Sample profile; Sources of new ideas - consumers, existing products and services,
distribution channels, federal government, and research and development; Methods of
generating ideas - focus groups, brainstorming, and problem inventory analysis; Creative
problem solving - brainstorming, reverse brainstorming, brainwriting, Gordon method,
checklist method, free association, forced relationships, collective notebook method,
attribute listing, big-dream approach, and parameter analysis; Opportunity recognition;
Product planning and development process - establishing evaluation criteria, idea stage,
concept stage, product development stage, and test marketing stage; E-commerce and
business start-up - using e-commerce creativity, website, tracking customer information,
and doing e-commerce as an entrepreneurial company.
Legal issues for the entrepreneur
Sample profile; Intellectual property; Need for a lawyer; Select a lawyer; Legal issues in
setting up the organization; Patents - international patents, the disclosure document, the
patent application, and patent infringement; Business method patents; Trademarks -
registering the trademark; Copyrights; Trade secrets; Licensing; Product safety and liability;
Insurance; Contracts.
The business plan - creating and starting the venture
Sample profile; Planning as part of the business operation; Business plan; Writing the plan;
Scope and value of the business plan—reading of the plan; evaluation of the plan by
potential lenders and investors; Presenting the plan; Information needs - market information,
operations information needs, and financial information needs; Using the internet as a
resource tool; Writing the business plan - introductory page, executive summary,
environmental and industry analyses, description of venture, production plan, operations
plan, Marketing plan, organizational plan; assessment of risk, and financial plan; Using and
225
implementing the business plan - measuring plan progress, and updating the plan; Failure of
business plan.
UNIT III
The marketing plan
Sample profile; Industry analysis - competitor analysis; Marketing research for the new
venture - defining the purpose or objectives, gathering data from secondary sources,
gathering information from primary sources, analyzing and interpreting the results;
Understanding the marketing plan; Characteristics of a marketing plan; The marketing mix;
Steps in preparing the marketing plan - defining the business situation, defining the target
market/opportunities and threats, considering strengths and weaknesses, establishing goals
and objectives, defining marketing strategy and action programs, marketing strategy-
consumer versus business-to-business markets, budgeting the marketing strategy,
implementation of the market plan, and monitoring progress of marketing actions;
Contingency planning; Failure of plans.
The organizational plan
Sample profile; Developing the management team; Legal forms of business - ownership,
liability of owners, costs of starting a business, continuity of business, transferability of
interest, capital requirements, management control, distribution of profits and losses, and
attractiveness for raising capital; Tax attributes of forms of business - tax issues for
proprietorship, tax issues for partnership, and tax issues for corporation;
(In the national and international context) The limited liability company versus the S
corporation; S corporation - advantages and disadvantages of an S corporation; The limited
liability company;
Designing the organization; Building the management team and a successful organization
culture; The role of a board of directors; The board of advisors; The organization and use of
advisors.
The financial plan
Sample profile; Operating and capital budgets; Pro Forma income statements; Pro Forma
cash flow; Pro Forma balance sheet; Break-even analysis; Pro forma sources and
applications of funds; software packages; Case studies for “creating and starting the
venture”.
UNIT IV
Financing the new venture: sources of capital
Sample profile; An overview - debt or equity financing, and internal or external funds;
Personal funds; Family and friends; Commercial banks - types of bank loans, cash flow
financing, and bank leading decisions; Role of SBA in small business financing; Research
and development limited partnerships - major elements, procedure, benefits and costs, and
case studies; Government grants – procedure; Private placement - types of investors,
private offerings, and regulations; Bootstrap financing.
Informal risk capital and venture capital
Opening profile; Financing the business; Informal risk-capital market; Venture capital -
nature of venture capital, overview of the venture-capital industry, venture-capital process,
locating venture capitalists, and approaching a venture capitalist; Valuing your company -
226
factors in valuation, ratio analysis, liquidity ratios, activity ratios, leverage ratios, profitability
ratios, general valuation approaches, general valuation method, and evaluation of an
internet company; Deal structure; Case studies for “financing the new venture”.
MANAGING, GROWING, AND ENDING THE NEW VENTURE
UNIT V
Entrepreneurial strategy: generating and exploiting new entries
Sample profile; New entry; Generation of a new entry opportunity - resources as a source of
competitive advantage, and creating an effective resource bundle; Assessing the
attractiveness of a new entry opportunity - information on a new entry, comfort with making
a decision under uncertainty, and decision to exploit or not to exploit the new entry; Entry
strategy for new entry exploitation - environmental instability and first-mover
(dis)advantages, customers' uncertainty and first-mover (dis)advantages, and lead time and
first-mover (dis)advantages; Risk reduction strategies for new entry exploitation - market
scope strategy, imitation strategies, and managing newness.
Strategies for growth and managing the implications of growth
Sample profile; Growth strategies - Avenues for growth opportunities - penetration
strategies, market development strategies, product development strategies, diversification
strategies, and case studies; Economic implications of growth; Implications of growth for the
firm - pressures on existing financial resources, pressures on human resources, pressures
on the management of employees, and pressures on the entrepreneur's time; Overcoming
pressures on existing financial resources; Financial control - managing cash flow, managing
inventory, mananging fixed assets, managing costs and profits, taxes, and record keeping;
Overcoming pressures on existing human resources; Overcoming pressures on the
management of employees; Overcoming pressures on entrepreneurs’ time - basic principles
of time management; Implications of firm growth to the entrepreneur - a categorization of
entrepreneurs and their firms' growth.
Accessing resources for growth from external sources
Sample profile; Using external parties to help grow a business; Franchising - advantages of
franchising to the franchisee and the franchisor, disadvantages of franchising, and types of
franchises; Investing in a franchise; Joint ventures - types of joint ventures, and factors in
the joint venture success; Acquisitions - advantages of an acquisition, disadvantages of an
acquisition, synergy, structuring the deal, locating acquisition candidates; Mergers;
Leveraged buyouts; Overcoming constraints by negotiating for more resources.
Going public
Sample profile; Advantages and disadvantages of going public; The alternatives to going
public; Timing of going public and underwriter selection - timing, and underwriter selection;
Registration statement and timetable - the prospectus, and procedure; Legal issues, and
blue-sky qualifications; After going public - aftermarket support, relationship with the
financial community, and reporting requirements; myths concerning going public.
Ending the venture
Sample profile; Bankruptcy—an overview; Surviving bankruptcy; Prepackaged bankruptcy;
Extended time payment plans; Liquidation; Strategy during reorganization; Keeping the
venture going; Warning signs of bankruptcy; Starting over; The reality of failure; Business
turnarounds; Exit strategy; Succession of business - transfer to family members and non–
227
family members; Harvesting strategy - direct sale, employee stock option plan, and
management buyout; case studies for “managing, growing and ending the new venture”.
TEXT BOOK
Principles of Entrepreneurship by Robert D. Hisrich, Michael P. Peters, and Dean A.
Shepherd; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
1. Small Scale Industries and Entrepreneurship in the Twenty-First Century by Vasanth
Desai; Publisher: Himalaya Publishing House.
2. Entrepreneurship: Successfully Launching New Ventures by Bruce R.Barringer and R.
Duane Ireland; Publisher: Pearson Education.
228
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective VI 3 0 3
(R11MED1154) INTERACTIVE COMPUTER GRAPHICS
Pre-requisites: C Language, Engineering Graphics
Course Objectives:
 To provide students with a foundation in graphics applications programming.
 To give basics of application programming interface (API) implementation based
on graphics pipeline approach.
 To provide students with an overview of the key concepts of digital production of
animation and visual effects with reference to workflow, people and technology.
 To give students practical experience in the production of 2D,3D computer
animation and Morphing.
Course Outcomes:
Students should be able to:
 Apply the relevant mathematics of computer graphics and be able to write basic
graphics application programs including animation
 Use the basic aspects of 2D image representations and transformations
 Implement different methods of digitally representing 3D Object representations
and transformations.
 Name the traditional principles of visible surface detection methods that can be
applied to computer animation.
TWO AND THREE DIMENSIONAL GRAPHICS CONCEPTS
UNIT I
Geometric transformations
Introduction; Transformations of geometric models – translation, scaling, reflection,
rotation, homogeneous representation, and concatenated transformations;
Mappings of geometric models- translational mapping, rotational mapping, general mapping,
and mappings as changes of coordinate system; Inverse transformations and
mappings; Projections of geometric models - orthographic projections, and perspective
projections; Design and engineering applications;
Visual realism
Introduction; Model clean up; Hidden line removal - visibility of object views, visibility
techniques, sorting, coherence, formulation and implementation, sample hidden line
algorithms, and hidden line removal for curved surfaces; Hidden surface removal
- the z-buffer algorithm, and Warnock's algorithm; Hidden solid removal - Ray-tracing
algorithm; Shading - shading models, shading surfaces, shading
enhancements, and shading solids; Coloring- color models; User interface or
shading and coloring.
229
INTERACTIVE TOOLS
UNIT II
Graphics aids
Introduction; Geometric modifiers; Names; Layers; Colors; Grids; Groups; Dragging
and rubberbanding; Clipping.
Graphics manipulations and editings
Introduction; Entity selection methods - individual entity, all displayed entities,
groups, enclosing polygon or window, chaining contiguous entities, and width; Manipulation
operations - verification of model and database parameters, entity verification, entity
copying (duplication), geometric arrays, transformation, entity blanking/ unblanking,
geometric measurements, and entity offsetting; Editing operations-entity trimming,
entity division, entity stretching, and entity editing; Design and engineering
applications.
UNIT III
Finite element modeling and analysis
Introduction; General procedure of the finite element method; Finite element
analysis - development of integral equations, method of weighted residuals,
continuum discretization, assembly of element equations, imposing boundary
conditions, lumping external applied loads, solution of global equations, other
finite element analyses, and convergence of finite element solutions;
Isoparametric evaluation of element matrices - element mapping, shape functions
by inspection, and evaluation of element matrices; Finite element modeling; Mesh
generation - mesh requirements, semi-automatic methods, and fully automatic methods;
Design and engineering applications.
UNIT IV
Part programming and manufacturing
Introduction; Part production cycle; Manufacturing systems; Manufacturing
processes - removing processes, forming processes, deforming
processes, and joining processes; Integration requirements; Process planning -
manual approach, variant approach, generative approach, hybrid approach,
and geometric modeling for process planning; Part programming - fundamentals of NC,
Basics of NC programming , and NC programming languages; Overview of tool
path generation and verification.
UNIT V
Computer aided quality control
Introduction; Contact inspection methods; Noncontact inspection methods -
machine vision, scanning laser beam devices and photogrammetry; Overview
of Nonoptical-Noncontact inspection methods.
Computer aided manufacturing
Computer assisted process planning (CAPP); Group technology - methodology,
steps required for the execution of group technology, and group technology concepts;
230
Computer aided production management system (CAPMS); Materials requirement
planning (MRP)- master production schedule; Shop floor control system –
shop floor control, and functions of shop floor control; Overview of computer
assisted production scheduling; Overview of flexible manufacturing system; Overview of
parts based manufacturing information system.
TEXT BOOK
CAD/CAM - Theory and Practice by Ibrahim Zeid; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
Computer Graphics by Harrington; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
231
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective VI 3 0 3
(R11MED1155) STATISTICAL QUALITY CONTROL AND TQM
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics & Statistics
Course Objectives:
 To introduce students to the importance of quality control , statistical quality
control , quality assurance and process capabilities for successful operations and
to enable them to apply complex statistical analysis for quality management
 Describe variation in a process or data, using frequency distribution, histogram,
stem-and-leaf plot, box plot, and normal probability plot
 Apply experimental design techniques in real world problems and in research
 To apply and evaluate best practices for the attainment of Total Quality
Course Outcomes:
Students should be able to:
 Develop in-depth knowledge on various Statistical Quality Control tools and apply
techniques of quality management in a given situation
 Construct a frequency distribution, histogram, normal probability of data readings
of a process, using MS EXCEL, Minitab and SPSS Software.
 Demonstrate motivation and responsibility to advocate for quality in business
 Select and apply appropriate techniques in identifying customer needs, as well as
the quality impact that will be used as inputs in TQM methodologies
UNIT I
Introduction and overview
The meaning of quality; The control-chart viewpoint; Scientific sampling; Use of examples;
Meanings and usage of the words ‘defective’ and ‘defect’; Significance of the viewpoint of
statistical quality control; statistical quality control and useful by–products; Reasons for the
use of the adjective, “statistical’; Four different levels of understanding statistical quality
control; Nonmanufacturing applications of statistical quality control techniques;
Directions for sample x and r chart
Setting up and operating control charts for X and R; Checklist of necessary steps in using X
and R charts; Some comments on computer software for statistical process control.
UNIT II
Why the control chart works; statistical concepts
The need for understanding statistical principles; Description of patterns of variation;
Graphic representation of a frequency distribution; Averages and measures of dispersion;
Sampling statistics and universe parameters; The normal curve; Other frequency curves;
Interpretation of average and standard deviation of a set of numbers.
232
Why the control charts works; examples
The use of control charts to judge whether or not a constant system of chance causes is
present; Use of the control chart in interpretation of a frequency distribution; Contribution of
the control chart to elimination of causes of trouble; Changes in universe average; Shift in
universe dispersion with no change in universe average; Change in universe average and
universe dispersion; A possible view of the question answered by a control chart;
Nonproduct applications of control charts for variables; Conflicting expressions for the
standard deviation of a set of numbers.
UNIT III
Some fundamentals of the theory of probability
Probability and its mathematical meaning; Modern concepts of probability theory; Some
theorems of the theory of probability; Infinite and finite universes; The hypergeometric
probability distribution; The binomial as a probability distribution; The Poisson law as a
probability distribution; The normal distribution; Deciding on the method to be used for
calculating probabilities in industrial sampling problems; Relationship between control charts
and certain other statistical techniques; Random variables; Point estimates and estimators;
The problem of selecting a parameter to describe universe dispersion and of choosing an
estimator for that parameter; Sampling from a normal distribution; Theory of extreme runs.
UNIT IV
The control chart for fraction rejected
Some practical limitations of control charts for variables; Control charts for attributes;
Control charts for fraction rejected; The binomial as a probability law that determines the
fluctuations of fraction rejected; Control limits for the p chart; Problems introduced by
variable subgroup size; Checklist of necessary steps in connection with control chart for
fraction rejected; Sensitivity of the p chart; Nonproduct applications of p and np charts; p
charts are not suitable for all data on fraction rejected – why.
The control chart for nonconformities
The place of the c chart in statistical process control; Distinction between a nonconforming
article and a nonconformity; Limits for the c chart are based on the Poisson distribution; The
combination of Poisson distributions; Conditions favorable to the economic use of the
control chart for nonconformities; Adaptations of the c chart to variations in the area of
opportunity for a nonconformity; Probability limits for c and u charts; The u charts for
nonconformities per multiple units.
UNIT V
TQM principles and practices
Definition; Basic approach; Gurus of TQM; TQM framework; Awareness; Defining quality;
Historical reviews; Obstacles; Benefits of TQM; TQM exemplary organization.
Continuous process improvement
Intoduction; Process; The Juran Trilogy; Improvement strategies; Types of problems; The
PDSA Cycle; Problem-solving method; Kaizen; Reengineering; Six-Sigma; TQM exemplary
organization.
233
TEXT BOOK
Statistical Quality Control by Eugene Grant; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE
1. Total Quality Control by Armand V. Feigenbaum; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Introduction to Statistical Quality Control by D.C.Montgomery; Publisher: John Wiley.
234
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
IV Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective VI 3 0 3
(R11MED1156) FRACTURE MECHANICS
Course Prerequisites: Mechanics of Solids
Course Objectives:
 Impart the knowledge on fundamental background on fracture mechanics
 Understand about knowledge on determining fracture toughness
 Understand about the knowledge on materials and structures
Course Outcomes:
Students should be able to:
 Develop an understanding of the various aspects involved in the area of fracture
mechanics
 Develop from first principles the basic ideas and equations needed for an
understanding of fracture mechanics
 Define the advantages and disadvantages of this approach for studying the failure
of materials and structures
 Indicate how the basic principles may be applied to a range of industrial problems
and materials.
UNIT I
Introduction; Historical perspective; Fracture mechanics approach to design – energy
criterion, stress intensity approach, time-dependant crack growth and damage tolerance;
Effect of material properties on fracture; Brief review of dimensional analysis.
UNIT II
Linear elastic fracture mechanics
An atomic view of fracture; Stress concentration effect of flaws; Griffith energy balance –
comparison with critical stress criterion, and modified Griffith equation; Energy release rate;
Instability and the R Curve – Reasons for the R curve shape, load control vs. displacement
control, and structures with finite compliance; Stress analysis of cracks – stress intensity
factor, relationship between K and global behavior, effect of finite size, principle of
superposition, and weight functions; Relationship between K and G.
235
UNIT III
(Contd) Linear elastic fracture mechanics
Crack Tip Plasticity – The Irwin Approach, Strip-yield model, Comparison of plastic zone
corrections, plastic zone shape; K controlled fracture; Plane Strain fracture – Crack-tip
triaxiality, effect of thickness on apparent fracture toughness, plastic zone effects,
implications for cracks in structures; Mixed Mode fracture – propagation of an angled crack,
equivalent Mode I crack, and Biaxial loading; Interaction of multiple cracks – coplanar
cracks, and parallel cracks.
UNIT IV
Elastic plastic fracture mechanics
Crack tip opening displacement; J contour integral – nonlinear energy release rate, J as a
path independent line integral, J as a stress intensity parameter, large strain zone, and
laboratory measurement of J; Relationships between J and CTOD; Crack-growth resistance
curves – stable and unstable crack growth, and computation of J for a growing crack; J
controlled fracture – stationary cracks, and J controlled crack growth; Crack-tip constraint
under large scale yielding – elastic T stress, and J-Q theory.
UNIT V
Dynamic and time dependent fracture
Dynamic fracture and crack arrest - rapid loading of a stationary crack; Rapid crack
propagation and crack arrest – crack speed, elastodynamic crack tip parameters, dynamic
toughness, and crack arrest; Dynamic contour integrals.
TEXT BOOK
Fracture Mechanics: Introduction and Applications by T.L. Anderson; Publisher: CRC Press
236
