SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/R12/R12AE.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
Automobile Engineering
B.TECH. FOUR YEAR DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2012-2013)
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous Institute
Approved by AICTE & Affiliated to JNTUH
Accredited by NBA and NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
Bachupally, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500090, Andhra Pradesh, India
Phone: 040-23042758/59/60; FAX: 040-23042761
E-Mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
1
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi and Govt. of A.P & Affiliated to JNTUH
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS FOR B.TECH. DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for Students admitted from the academic year 2012-2013)
1. Courses of study
The following courses of study are offered at present for specialization for the B.
Tech. Course:
Branch Code Branch
01 Civil Engineering.
02 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
03 Mechanical Engineering
04 Electronics and Communication Engineering
05 Computer Science and Engineering.
10 Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
12 Information Technology
24 Automobile Engineering
1.1 Eligibility Criteria for Admission
The eligibility criteria for admission into engineering programmes shall be as
mentioned below:
The candidate shall be an Indian National / NRI
The candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st December
of the academic year for which the admissions are being conducted.
The Candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or
equivalent as on the date of admission.
Seats in each programme in the Institution are classified into Category A
and Category B as per the G.Os.
2
1.1.1 Category – A Seats
These seats will be filled through counseling as per the rank at the Common
Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by the State Government and as per
other admission criteria laid down in the G.Os.
1.1.2 Category - B Seats
These seats will be filled by the institute as per the G.Os Issued by State
Government from time to time.
1.1.3 Category: Lateral Entry
The candidate shall be admitted into the Third Semester, based on the rank
secured by the candidate at Engineering Common Entrance Test
(ECET(FDH)) by the Convener, ECET.
2. Distribution and Weightage of Marks
i. The performance of a student in each Semester shall be evaluated subject –
wise with a maximum of 100 marks for theory and 100 marks for
practical subjects. In addition, an Industry oriented mini-project, Seminar,
Comprehensive viva-voce, and Project Work shall be evaluated for 50, 50, 50
and 200 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects the distribution shall be 30 marks for Mid Semester
Evaluation and 70 marks for the End-Examination.For theory subjects,
Two mid examinations will be conducted in each Semester as per the
academic calendar. Each mid examination is evaluated for 25 marks. Two
assignments are to be given to students covering the syllabus of first Mid and
second Mid examinations and are evaluated for 5 marks each. .
The first assignment shall be submitted before first mid examinations and
second Assignment should be submitted before second mid examination.
At the end of the Semester, Internal Marks (Maximum 30) for the respective
subject is assigned as follows:
(a) 25 marks: 80% from the best performed Mid examination and 20% from
the other Mid examination.
(b) 5 marks: Average of the two assignment marks
iii. For practical subjects there shall be a continuous evaluation during the
Semester for 30 marks and 70 marks for end examination. Out of the 30
marks, day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be evaluated for 10
marks, and 10 marks for practical examination (two practical examinations
will be conducted and the average of the two examinations will be taken into
account) and 10 marks for laboratory record.
NOTE: A student who is absent for any assignment/Mid term examination for
any reason what so ever shall be deemed to have secured ‘zero’ marks
in the test/examination and no makeup test/examination shall be
conducted.
3
iv For the subjects having design and / or drawing, (such as Engineering
Graphics, Engineering Drawing, Machine Drawing, Production Drawing
Practice, and Estimation etc.,) the distribution shall be 30 marks for internal
evaluation (15 marks for day-to-day work and 15 marks for Mid
examination (the average of the two examinations will be taken into account)
and 70 marks for end semester examination. There shall be two Mid
examinations in a Semester.
V There shall be an industry-oriented mini-Project, in collaboration with an
industry of their specialization, to be taken up during the a summer vacation
after III year II Semester examination. The mini project shall be evaluated
during the IV year I Semester. The industry oriented mini project shall be
submitted in report form and should be presented before a committee, which
shall be evaluated for 50 marks. The committee consists of Head of the
Department, the supervisor of mini project and a senior faculty member of the
department. There shall be no Midterm assessment for industry oriented
mini project. However, attending the shadow engineering program is a
pre – requisite for evaluating industry – oriented mini project. Students
should submit a report on learning outcomes of the shadow engineering.
Every student should attend shadow engineering programming an industry
for a week days during second year I or II semester.
vi. There shall be a Seminar presentation in IV year II Semester. For the
Seminar, the student shall collect the information on a specialized topic other
than the project topic and prepare a technical report, showing his
understanding of the topic, and submit to the department, which shall be
evaluated by a Departmental committee consisting of the Head of the
department, Seminar supervisor and a senior faculty member. The seminar
will be awarded 50 marks in which 40 marks will be evaluated for
seminar report and 10 marks for MTP Record by the committee.
vii. There shall be a Comprehensive Viva-Voce in IV year II Semester. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce will be conducted by a Committee consisting of
the Head of the Department and three Senior Faculty members of the
Department. The Comprehensive Viva-Voce is aimed to assess the student’s
understanding in various subjects studied during the B.Tech. course of
study. The Comprehensive Viva-Voce is evaluated for 50 marks by the
Committee. There will be no Midterm assessment for the Comprehensive
viva-voce.
viii. The Project work shall be started by the student in the beginning of the IV
year I Semester. Out of a total of 200 marks for the project work, 60 marks
shall be for Midterm Evaluation and 140 marks for the Semester end
Examination. The viva-voce shall be conducted by a committee comprising
of an external examiner, Head of the Department and the project supervisor
4
and one senior faculty. The evaluation of project work shall be conducted at
the end of the IV year II Semester. The Midterm Evaluation shall be on
the basis of three Seminars conducted during the IV year II Semester for
30 marks by the committee consisting of Head of the Department,
project supervisor and senior faculty member of the Department and for
30 marks by the supervisor of the project.
3. Semester end Examination
(a) Theory Courses
Each course is evaluated for 70 marks. Examination is of 3 hours duration.
(c) Practical Courses
Each lab course is evaluated for 70 marks. The examination shall be
conducted by the laboratory teacher and another senior teacher concerned
with the subject of the same/other department/Industry. One examiner may
be appointed by the Chief Superintendent in consultation with HOD as and
when required.
(c ) Supplementary Examinations
Supplementary examinations will be conducted along with regular Semester
end examinations. (During even Semester regular examinations:
supplementary examinations of odd Semester, and during odd Semester
regular examinations: supplementary examinations of even Semester will be
conducted).
4. Attendance Requirements
i. A student shall be eligible to appear for the Semester end examinations if he
acquires a minimum of 75% of attendance in aggregate of all the
subjects for Semester.
ii. Condonation of shortage of attendance in aggregate up to 10% (65% and
above and below 75%) in a Semester may be granted by Institute
Academic Committee.
iii. A student will not be permitted to write the end examination and not promoted
to the next Semester unless he satisfies the attendance requirement of the
present Semester, as applicable. He may seek re-admission for that
Semester when offered next.
iv. Shortage of Attendance below 65% in aggregate shall in NO case be
condoned.
v. Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned in any Semester are
not eligible to take their end semester examination of that Semester.
vi. A stipulated fee shall be payable towards condonation of shortage of
attendance.
5
5. Minimum Academic Requirements
The following academic requirements have to be satisfied in addition to the
attendance requirements mentioned in item No.4.
i. A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic
requirements and earned the credits allotted to each theory or practical design or
drawing subject or project, if he secures not less than 35% (25 out of 70
marks) of marks in the end examination and a minimum of 40% of marks in
the sum total of the Midterm evaluation and end semester examination
taken together.
ii. A student shall be promoted from II to III year only if he fulfils the academic
requirement of 37 credits from the following examinations,
 Two regular and one supplementary examinations of I year I Semester
 One Regular and One Supplementary exam of I year II Semester
 one regular examination of II year I Semester irrespective
iii. A student shall be promoted from III year to IV year only if he fulfils the
academic requirements of total 62 credits from the following examinations,
 Three regular and Two supplementary examinations of I B Tech I Semester.
 Two regular and two Supplementary examinations for I B Tech II Semester
 Two regular and one supplementary examinations up to the end of II year I
Semester.
 One regular and one supplementary examinations of II year II Semester.
 One regular examination of III year I Semester.
iv. A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 200
credits and earn the 200 credits. Marks obtained in all 200 credits shall be
considered for the calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA).
v. In addition to the above 200 credits the student must complete the non credit
courses also. The non-credit courses awarded with a grade of satisfactory or not
satisfactory based on the attendance of the student. Minimum attendance for the
non-credit course is 75%.
vi. The student should also register and complete any two value added courses
offered by the Institute.
vii. Students who fail to earn 200 credits as indicated in the course structure within
eight academic years from the year of their
admission shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech. course and their admission stands
cancelled.
6. Course pattern
i. The entire course of study is of four academic years. All the I, II, III and IV
years are of Semester pattern .
ii. A student eligible to appear for the end semester examination in a subject, but
absent or has failed in the end semester examination may reappear for that
subject at the supplementary examination whenever conducted.
6
iii. When a student is detained due to shortage of attendance in any Semester, he
may be re-admitted into that Semester when it is offered next, with the
academic regulations of the batch into which he gets readmitted.
iv. When a student is detained due to lack of credits in any year, he may be eligible
to be promoted or for promotion into the next year after fulfillment of the
academic requirements, with the academic regulations of the batch into
which he gets admitted
Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
A student will be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. Degree if he/she
fulfils the following academic regulations:
i) Pursued a course of study for not less than four academic years and not
more than eight academic years.
ii) Registered for 200 credits and secured 200 credits and other Academic
Requirements .
iii) complete the non-credit courses and value added courses as per their course
structure.
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the
award of the degree within eight academic years from the year of their
admission, shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech. Course.
7. CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points:
The absolute grading method is followed, based on the total marks obtained in
internal and external examinations. Grades and grade points are assigned as per
the Table given below
B.Tech Program: The Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the total
marks obtained in internal and external examinations. Grades and Grade points
are assigned as given below
Marks Obtained Grade Description Grade Points(GP)
of Grade Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A+ Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 A Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 B Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 C Fair 6.00
>=40 and <49.99 D Pass 5.00
<40 F Remedial
Not Appeared the Exam(s) N Absent
7
The student is eligible for the award of the B.Tech degree with the class as
CGPA CLASS
>= 7.5 First Class with Distinction
>= 6.5 and <7.5 First class
>= 5.5 and < 6.5 Second Class
>=5.0 and < 5.5 Pass class
mentioned in the Table.
Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
The performance of each student at the end of the each semester is indicated in terms
of SGPA. The SGPA is calculated as below:
Where ‘Ci’ = Number of Credits allotted to particular subject ‘I’
‘Gi’ = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded in that subject ‘i”
‘i”= 1,2,…..P represent the number of subjects for that particular semester
* SGPA is calculated and awarded for the candidates who pass all the courses in
a semester.
Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) for Entire Programme.
The CGPA is calculated as below:
Assessment of the overall performance of a student is obtained by calculating
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA), which is weighted average of the grade
points obtained in all subjects during the course of study.
8
Where Ci= Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘I”
Gi = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded in that
subject ‘i”
I= 1,2,….m represent the number of subjects of the entire program.
Grade lower than D in any subject is not considered for CGPA calculation. The CGPA
is awarded only when the student acquires the required number of credits prescribed
for the program.
Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
e) Award list indicating the marks awarded to the student.
8. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to College, or if any case of indiscipline is
pending against him, the result of the candidate may be withheld and he will not
be allowed to go into the next higher Semester. The award or issue of the
Degree may also be withheld in such cases
9. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or
any other academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and
when they become eligible. They have to take up Equivalent subjects, as
substitute subject in place of repetition of subjects as decided by the Institute
Academic Committee.
10. Minimum Instruction Days The minimum instruction days for each Semester
shall be 90 instruction days.
11 There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission process.
12. The decision of the Institute Academic Committee will be final in respect of
equivalent subjects for those students who are transferred from other
colleges. The procedure for permitting students to transfer from other
colleges will be decided by the principal / Institute Academic Committee
keeping the Government Rules in view.
13. General
i. Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include “she”,
“her”, “hers”.
ii. The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
9
iii. In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arises in the above rules and
regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
iv. The College may change or amend any or all of the academic regulations or
syllabi at any time and the changes or amendments made shall be applicable to
all the students concerned with effect from the dates notified by the College.
14. Academic Regulations for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2013-2014)
(i) A student shall register for all 150 credits and earn all the 150 credits. Marks
obtained in all 150 credits shall be considered for the calculation of the class.
(ii) A student who fails to earn 150 credits as indicated in the course structure within
six academic years from the year of their admission shall forfeit their seat in
B.Tech. programme and their admission stands cancelled.
(iii) The same attendance regulations are adopted as that of B.Tech. Four year
degree course.
(iv) A student shall be promoted from third year to fourth year only on fulfilling the
academic requirements of securing 37 credits from the following examinations.
a. Two regular and one supplementary examination of II year I Semester
b. One regular and one supplementary examination of II year II Semester
c. One regular examination of III year I Semester.
In case of getting detained for want of credits the student may make up the
credits through supplementary exams of the above exams before the date of
commencement of class work for IV year I Semester.
(v) All other regulations as applicable to B.Tech. four year degree course will hold
good for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme).
15. Malpractice Rules
Disciplinary Action for Malpractices/Improper Conduct in Examinations
Nature of Malpractices/Improper conduct Punishment
If the candidate:
1. (a) Possesses or keeps accessible in Expulsion from the
examination hall, any paper, note book, examination hall and
programmable calculators, Cell phones, pager, cancellation of the
palm computers or any other form of material performance in that subject
concerned with or related to the subject of the only.
examination (theory or practical) in which he is
appearing but has not made use of (material
shall include any marks on the body of the
candidate which can be used as an aid in the
subject of the examination)
(b)Gives assistance or guidance or receives it Expulsion from the
10
from any other candidate orally or by any other examination hall and
body language methods or communicates cancellation of the
through cell phones with any candidate or performance in that subject
persons in or outside the exam hall in respect of only of all the candidates
any matter. involved. In case of an
outsider, he will be handed
over to the police and a case
is registered against him.
2. Has copied in the examination hall from any Expulsion from the
paper, book, programmable calculators, palm examination hall and
computers or any other form of material relevant cancellation of the
to the subject of the examination (theory or performance in that subject
practical) in which the candidate is appearing. and all other subjects the
candidate has already
appeared including practical
examinations and project work
and shall not be permitted to
appear for the remaining
examinations of the subjects
of that Semester/year.
The Hall Ticket of the
candidate is to be cancelled.
3. Impersonates any other candidate in connection The candidate who has
with the examination. impersonated shall be
expelled from examination
hall. The candidate is also
debarred and forfeits the seat.
The performance of the
original candidate who has
been impersonated, shall be
cancelled in all the subjects of
the examination (including
practicals and project work)
already appeared and shall
not be allowed to appear for
examinations of the remaining
subjects of that
semester/year. The candidate
is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from
11
class work and all end
semester examinations. The
continuation of the course by
the candidate is subject to the
academic regulations in
connection with forfeiture of
seat. If the imposter is an
outsider, he will be handed
over to the police and a case
is registered against him.
4. Smuggles the Answer book or additional sheet Expulsion from the
or takes out or arranges to send out the question examination hall and
paper during the examination or answer book or cancellation of performance in
additional sheet, during or after the examination. that subject and all the other
subjects the candidate has
already appeared including
practical examinations and
project work and shall not be
permitted for the remaining
examinations of the subjects
of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred for
two consecutive semesters
from class work and all end
semester examinations. The
continuation of the course by
the candidate is subject to the
academic regulations in
connection with forfeiture of
seat.
5. U s e s o b j e c t i o n a b l e , a b u s i v e o r o f f e n s iv e C a n c e l l a t i o n o f t h e
language in the answer paper or in letters to the performance in that subject.
examiners or writes to the examiner requesting
him to award pass marks.
6. Refuses to obey the orders of the Chief In case of students of the
Superintendent/Assistant – Superintendent / any college, they shall be expelled
officer on duty or misbehaves or creates from examination halls and
disturbance of any kind in and around the cancellation of their
examination hall or organizes a walk out or performance in that subject
instigates others to walk out, or threatens the and all other subjects the
12
officer-in charge or any person on duty in or candidate(s) has (have)
outside the examination hall of any injury to his already appeared and shall
person or to any of his relations whether by not be permitted to appear for
words, either spoken or written or by signs or by the remaining examinations of
visible representation, assaults the officer-in- the subjects of that
charge, or any person on duty in or outside the semester/year. The
examination hall or any of his relations, or candidates are also debarred
indulges in any other act of misconduct or and forfeit their seats. In case
mischief which result in damage to or destruction of outsiders, they will be
of property in the examination hall or any part of handed over to the police and
the College campus or engages in any other act a police case is registered
which in the opinion of the officer on duty against them.
amounts to use of unfair means or misconduct or
has the tendency to disrupt the orderly conduct
of the examination.
7. Leaves the exam hall taking away answer script Expulsion from the
or intentionally tears of the script or any part examination hall and
thereof inside or outside the examination hall. cancellation of performance in
that subject and all the other
subjects the candidate has
already appeared including
practical examinations and
project work and shall not be
permitted for the remaining
examinations of the subjects
of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred for
two consecutive semesters
from class work and all
University examinations. The
continuation of the course by
the candidate is subject to the
academic regulations in
connection with forfeiture of
seat.
8. Possess any lethal weapon or firearm in the Expulsion from the
examination hall. examination hall and
cancellation of the
performance in that subject
13
and all other subjects the
candidate has already
appeared including practical
examinations and project work
and shall not be permitted for
the remaining examinations of
the subjects of that
semester/year. The candidate
is also debarred and forfeits
the seat.
9. If student of the college, who is not a candidate If the student belongs to the
for the particular examination or any person not college, expulsion from the
connected with the college indulges in any examination hall and
malpractice or improper conduct mentioned in cancellation of the
clause 6 to 8. performance in that subject
and all other subjects the
candidate has already
appeared including practical
examinations and project work
and shall not be permitted for
the remaining examinations of
the subjects of that
semester/year. The candidate
is also debarred and forfeits
the seat.
Person(s) who do not
belong to the College will be
handed over to police and, a
police case will be registered
against them.
10. Comes in a drunken condition to the examination Expulsion from the
hall. examination hall and
cancellation of the
performance in that subject
and all other subjects the
candidate has already
appeared including practical
examinations and project work
and shall not be permitted for
14
the remaining examinations of
the subjects of that
semester/year.
11. Copying detected on the basis of internal Cancellation of the
evidence, such as, during valuation or during performance in that subject
special scrutiny. and all other subjects the
candidate has appeared
including practical
examinations and project work
of that semester/year.
12. If any malpractice is detected which is not
covered in the above clauses 1 to 11 shall be
reported to the academic council of the Institute
for further action to award suitable punishment.
Malpractices identified by squad or special invigilators
Punishments to the candidates as per the above guidelines.
Malpractice identified at Spot center during valuation
The following procedure is to be followed in the case of malpractice cases detected
during valuation, scrutiny etc. at spot center.
1) Malpractice is detected at the spot valuation. The case is to be referred to the
malpractice committee. Malpractice committee will meet and discuss/question
the candidate and based on the evidences, the committee will recommend
suitable action on the candidate.
2) A notice is to be served to the candidate(s) involved through the Principal to
his address and to the candidate(s) permanent address regarding the
malpractice and seek explanations.
3) The involvement of staff who are in charge of conducting examinations,
invigilators valuing examination papers and preparing / keeping records of
documents relating to the examinations in such acts (inclusive of providing in
correct or misleading information) that infringe upon the course of natural
justice to one and all concerned at the examinations shall be viewed
seriously and recommended for award of appropriate punishment after
thorough enquire.
4) Based on the explanation and recommendation of the committee action may
be initiated.
15
5) Malpractice committee:
i. Controller of Examinations Chairman
ii. Assistant controller of Evaluation Member
iii. Chief Examiner of the subject/subject expert Member
iv. Concerned Head of the Department Member
16
VNR Vignanaf Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH ( AE )
(R12)
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
MTH1101 Mathematics – I 3 1 3
PHY1101 Engineering Physics 3 1 3
Chemistry of Engineering
CHE1102 3 0 3
Materials
Computer Programming and Data
ITD1101 3 1 3
Structures
MED1101 Engineering Mechanics – I 3 1 3
MED1102 Engineering Graphics – I 2 4 4
EPC1201 Engg. Physics and Chemistry Lab 0 3 2
English language Communication
ENG1201 0 3 2
skills Lab - I
Computer Programming and Data
ITD1201 0 3 2
Structures Lab
Total 17 17 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
17
VNR Vignanaf Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH ( AE )
(R12)
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
MTH1102 Mathematics – II 3 1 3
PHY1102 Physics of Materials 3 1 3
ENG1101 English 3 0 3
CHE1101 Engineering Chemistry 3 0 3
MED1103 Engineering Mechanics – II 3 1 3
Engineering Graphics - II (using
MED1104 2 4 4
AutoCAD)
MED1210 IT and Fuels lab 0 3 2
MED1201 Engineering Workshop 0 3 2
English language Communication
ENG1202 0 3 2
skills Lab – II
Total 17 16 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
18
VNR Vignanaf Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH ( AE )
(R12)
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
MTH1103 Mathematics – III 3 1 3
MED1106 Solid Mechanics 3 1 3
MED1107 Thermodynamics 4 1 4
MED1108 Metallurgy and Material Science 4 0 4
Basic Electrical and Electronics
EEE1153 3 1 3
Engineering
Business Economics & Financial
CMS1101 4 0 4
Analysis
Metallurgy Lab and Mechanics of
MED1203 0 3 2
Solids Lab
Basic Electrical and Electronics
EEE1251 0 3 2
Engineering Lab
Total 21 10 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
19
VNR Vignanaf Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH ( AE )
(R12)
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
MTH1106 Probability and Statistics 3 1 3
MED1111 Kinematics of Machines 4 0 4
Fluid Mechanics & Hydraulic
AED1101 4 1 4
Machines
AED1102 Applied Thermodynamics 3 1 3
AED1103 Automotive Engines & Systems 4 0 4
MED1109 Machine Drawing 0 6 3
AED1201 Automotive Engines Lab 0 3 2
Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulic
MED1205 0 3 2
Machines Lab
Human Values and Professional Non Credit Audit
NCC1101 2
Ethics Course
Total 20 15 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
20
VNR Vignanaf Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH ( AE )
(R12)
III YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
Numerical Analysis and Linear
MTH1104 3 1 3
Programming
MED1115 Dynamics of Machinery 4 1 4
MED1116 Engineering Design Basics 4 1 4
MED1122 Heat and Mass Transfer 4 1 4
MED1114 Production Technology 3 0 3
Refrigeration & Auto Air
AED1104 3 1 3
Conditioning
MED1204 Production Technology Lab 0 3 2
AED1202 Heat Transfer & RAC Lab 0 3 2
Total 21 11 25
21
VNR Vignanaf Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH ( AE )
(R12)
III YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
CED1105 Environmental Studies 3 1 3
AED1105 Automobile Engineering Design 4 1 4
AED1106 Machine Tools & Metrology 4 1 4
AED1107 Vehicle Dynamics 4 1 4
EIE1128 Instrumentation & Control Systems 3 1 3
MED1149 Operations Research 3 1 3
MED1206 Machine Tools and Metrology Lab 0 3 2
Advanced English Communication
ENG1204 0 3 2
Skills Laboratory
Soft Skills and Personality Non Credit Audit
NCC1102 2
Development Course
Total 21 12 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
22
VNR Vignanaf Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH ( AE )
(R12)
IV YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
Automotive Electrical and
EEE1155 4 0 4
Autotronics
MED1128 CAD/CAM 4 0 4
Elective – I OPEN
CED1147 Disaster Management
CSE1121 Cyber Security
ITD1116 Computer Forensics 3 0 3
Object Oriented Programming
ITD1105
through JAVA
ITD1126 Green IT
Elective – II
MED1129 Robotics
AED1108 Automotive Chassis and Suspension
MED1132 Product Life Cycle Management 3 1 3
MED1130 Composite Materials
MED1135 Surface Modification Techniques
AED1109 Gas Dynamics
Elective – III
MED1139 Unconventional Machining Process
AED1110 Vehicle Body Engineering and safety
MED1121 Finite Element Method
3 1 3
Introduction to Aircraft Industry &
MED1171
Aircraft System
MED1142 Fluid Power Systems
MED1144 Renewable Energy Sources
MED1209 CAD/CAM Lab 0 3 2
Automobile Engineering Lab&
AED1203 0 3 2
Instrumentation Lab
AED1301 Industry Oriented Mini Project 0 6 2
AED1303 Comprehensive Viva 0 3 2
Total 17 17 25
23
VNR Vignanaf Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH ( AE )
(R12)
IV YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
Industrial Engineering and
MED1138 3 1 3
Management
Elective – IV
MED1145 Nano Technology
AED1111 Alternate Fuels for Automobiles
MED1146 Maintenance and Safety Engineering 4 0 4
MED1136 Tribology
MED1153 Principles of Entrepreneurship
MED1154 Interactive Computer Graphics
Elective – V
MED1147 Design for Manufacturing
Non-Destructive Testing and
MED1148
Evaluation
AED1113 Automotive Pollution and Control
0 4
4
MED1141 Computational Fluid Dynamics
Plant Layout and Material Handling
MED1140
Systems
MED1172 Design of Aircraft Structures
AED1302 Technical Seminar 0 3 2
AED1304 Project Work 0 18 12
Total 11 22 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
24
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MTH1101) MATHEMATICS – I
(Advanced Calculus)
UNIT I
DIFFERENTIAL CALCULUS:
Mean value theorems - Rolle ’s Theorem, Lagrange’s theorem, Cauchy’s theorem, and
generalized mean value theorem (Taylor’s Theorem) (statements only), Curvature and
Radius of curvature, Curve tracing – Cartesian, polar and parametric curves (standard
curves only)
UNIT II
FUNCTIONS OF SEVERAL VARIABLES:
Partial differentiation; Euler’s theorem, Functional dependence; Jacobian; Maxima and
Minima of functions of two variables with constraints and without constraints.
UNIT III
IMPROPER INTEGRALS AND MULTIPLE INTEGRALS:
Improper Integrals; Beta, Gamma, and Error integrals - Properties and simple
applications. Applications of integration to lengths, volumes and surface areas in
cartesian and polar coordinates. Multiple integrals - double and triple integrals, change
of variables (Cylindrical and Spherical polar coordinates) and change of order of
integration.
UNIT IV
VECTOR CALCULUS:
Introduction to vector and scalar functions; gradient, curl, divergence, and their related
properties of sums and products; Laplacian and second order operators; Vector
integration - line integral, work done, potential function; Area, surface, and volume
integrals; Statements of Vector integral theorems and their verification (without proofs)
- Green’s theorem, Stoke’s theorem, and Gauss divergence theorem.
UNIT V
ELEMENTARY ANALYSIS:
Sequences and series - convergence and divergence, ratio test, comparison test,
integral test, Cauchy’s root test, Raabe’s test (statements only for the tests), and
absolute and conditional convergence.
25
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Calculus and Analytic Geometry by Thomas and Finney, 9th edition;
Publisher: Person Education.
2. Higher Engineering Mathematics by Dr. B. S. Grewal, 40th edition, Publisher:
Khanna Publishers.
3. Schaum’s Outline of Vector Analysis by Murray R. Spiegel (2011); 2nd
edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Elementary Analysis: The Theory of Calculus by Kenneth Ross; Publisher:
Springer.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition; Publisher:
John Wiley.
26
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech I Sem (Common to all branches) L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(PHY1101) ENGINEERING PHYSICS
UNIT I
INTERFERENCE:
Superposition principle, resultant amplitude, coherence, methods to obtain coherent
sources, interference, Young’s double slit experiment, interference in thin films by
reflection, Newton’s rings Experiment.
DIFFRACTION-I:
Distinguish between Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction, diffraction at single slit
(Qualitative and Quantitative (Phasors approach)).
UNIT –II
DIFFRACTION-II:
Diffraction at double slit, circular aperture, and multiple slits (grating) (Qualitative
Approach), Resolution of spectral lines, Rayleigh criterion, and resolving power of
grating.
POLARIZATION:
Polarization phenomenon, Brewster’s Law and Malus law, examples, types of
polarization, double refraction, Nicol prism, Quarter and Half wave plates
UNIT -III
LASERS:
Characteristics of Lasers, Spontaneous and Stimulated Emission of radiation, meta
stable state, population inversion, lasing action, Einstein’s coefficients and relation
between them, Ruby Laser, Helium, Neon Laser, Semiconductor Laser, Applications
of lasers.
FIBER OPTICS:
Principle of optical fiber and properties, Acceptance angle and acceptance cone,
Numerical aperture, Types of fibers and refractive index profiles, Qualitative analysis of
attenuation in optical fibers, Application of optical fibers.
UNIT -IV
ELEMENTS OF STATISTICAL MECHANICS:
Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics (non-mathematical
treatment); Photon gas, Planck’s law of black body radiation; Deduction of Wien’s law
and Rayleigh, Jeans law from Plank’s law.
PRINCIPLES OF QUANTUM MECHANICS:
Waves and particles, De Broglie hypothesis, Matter waves, Davisson and Germer
experiment, Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle, Schrodinger Wave Equation, Wave
27
function and its Physical Significance, Particle in one dimensional potential box (wave
functions, probability densities and energy states).
UNIT -V
FREE ELECTRON FERMI GAS:
Energy levels in one dimension, Effect of temperature on the Fermi-Dirac distribution,
Free electron gas in three dimensions, electrical conductivity and Ohm’s law, Electrical
Resistivity of Metals (Qualitative).
BAND THEORY OF SOLIDS:
Electron in a periodic potential; Bloch Theorem; Kronig-Penney model (non-
mathematical treatment); Origin of energy band formation in solids; Classification of
materials into conductors, semiconductors and Insulators; and Concept of effective
mass of an electron.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Physics Vol.2, by Halliday, Resnick and Krane; John Wiley and Sons
2. Concepts of Modern physics by Arthur Beiser, McGraw Hill Inc.
3. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel : John Wiley and Sons
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Physics by R.K.Gaur and S.L.Gupta; Dhanpat Rai and Sons
2. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd.
3. Optics by Ghatak and Thyagarajan, Tata Mc Graw
4. Engineering Physics by G Sahashrabuddhe; University Press
5. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
6. Engineering Physics by Dr M Chandra Shekar and Dr P. Appala Naidu, VGS
Book links.
7. Introduction to Optical Communication by G. Keiser
8. Quantum Mechanics by Gupta Kumar Sharma
28
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I B.Tech CE, ME and AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(CHE1102) CHEMISTRY OF ENGINEERING MATERIALS
UNIT I
ENERGY SOURCES:
Fuels - classification (solid, liquid, gaseous), calorific value of fuel (HCV, LCV),
determination of calorific value by bomb calorimeter; Solid fuels – coal – analysis –
proximate and ultimate analysis and their significance; Liquid fuels – petroleum,
refining of petroleum, cracking, knocking, synthetic petrol – Bergius and Fischer-
Tropsch’s process. Biofuels- characteristics, biodiesel (preparation, properties and
applications); Gaseous fuels – natural gas, LPG, CNG (composition and uses),
Combustion – problems.
UNIT II
CEMENT:
Types of cement; Chemical constituents and composition of Portland cement;
Manufacturing methods of Portland cement (wet and dry processes); Properties of
cement - Setting and Hardening of cement (reactions); Testing of cement; Decay of
cement; Cement concrete - RCC.
UNIT III
ENGINEERING MATERIALS:
a) Abrasives and Adhesives - Introduction, classification of abrasives, and their
applications. Criteria of a good adhesive, classification and their applications.
b) Composites: Need for composites, classification and their applications.
UNIT IV
REFRACTORIES AND CERAMICS:
Refractories: Definition; Classification with examples; Characteristics of a good
refractory; Causes for the failure of a refractory material; Properties of refractories -
refractoriness, RUL test, porosity.
Ceramics: Introduction; Classification, Glazing and Applications of glazed and non
glazed ceramics.
UNIT V
LUBRICANTS:
Criteria of a good lubricant; Classification of lubricants-lubricating oils; Greases or
semisolid lubricants; Solid lubricants; Mechanism of lubrication-fluid film lubrication,
boundary lubrication, and extreme pressure lubrication; Biodegradable lubricants:
29
types of biodegradable lubricants, advantages and disadvantages of biodegradable
lubricants. Properties of lubricants - viscosity, cloud point, pour point, flash and fire
point, mechanical stability, oiliness, and carbon residue.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, and Jyotsna Cherukuri; Publisher:
VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain and Monica Jain; Publisher: Dhanpat Rai.
3. Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara and Mukkanti; Publisher: S.Chand and
Co.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna
2. Engineering Chemistry by Balram Pani; Publisher: Galgotia Publications
Pvt.Ltd.
3. Engineering Chemistry by Shashi Chawla Publisher: Dhanpat Rai and Co.
4. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi, Cengage
Learning Publications.
5. Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, Sulochana Nagarajan;
Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
30
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech CE, ME and AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(ITD1101) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING AND DATA STRUCTURES
UNIT – I
Introduction to Computers, Computer Systems, Computing Environments, Computer
languages, creating and running programs, Software Development Methods.
UNIT – II
Algorithm / pseudo code, flowchart, program development steps, structure of C
program, identifiers, basic data types, Constants, variables, operators, expressions,
precedence and order of evaluation.
Input-output statements, if and switch statements, loops- while, do-while and for
statements, break, continue, goto and labels, example C programs.
UNIT - III
Functions, basic concepts, parameter passing, storage classes, scope rules, user
defined functions, standard library functions, recursive functions, example C programs.
Arrays- Basic concepts, one-dimensional and two-dimensional arrays, Character array,
string handling functions, example C programs.
UNIT - IV
Derived types- structures- Basic concepts, nested structures, arrays of structures,
program examples.
pointers- Basic concepts, pointers and functions, pointers and strings, pointers and
arrays, pointers and structures, self referential structures, example C programs.
UNIT - V
Searching - Linear and binary search methods, sorting - Bubble sort, selection sort,
Insertion sort.
Introduction to data structures, Dynamic memory allocation, stacks and queues-
implementation using arrays.
31
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Computer science, A structured programming approach using C, B.A.
Forouzan and R.F. Gilberg, Third edition, Thomson.
2. The C Programming Language, B.W. Kernighan, Dennis M.Ritchie,
PHI/Pearson Education
3. C Programming and Data structures, E.Balagurusamy, TMH.
REFERENCES:
1. Data Structures Using C - A.S.Tanenbaum, Y. Langsam, and M.J.
Augenstein, PHI/Pearson Education.
2. Programming in C - Stephen G. Kochan, III Edition, Pearson Education.
3. Data Structures and Program Design in C, R.Kruse, C.L. Tondo, BP Leung,
Shashi M, Second Edition, Pearson Education.
32
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ME / AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MED 1101) ENGINEERING MECHANICS - I
UNIT – I
FORCES:
Introduction to Engineering Mechanics – Basic Concepts: Rigid body, Force,
specifications of a force, Classification of a force system, Composition of force,
Resolution of forces, Rectangular components, parallelogram of forces, Triangle of
forces, Polygon law of forces, Equilibrium of Collinear forces, Equilibrium law,
Superposition and Transmissibility, Law of action and reaction, Free Body Diagram,
Active and reactive forces, Types of supports, Lami’s theorem, Resultant, Equilibrant,
Method of projections, Equations of equilibrium, Resultant of coplanar concurrent
forces, Equilibrium of coplanar concurrent forces.
UNIT – II
MOMENTS:
Moment, Moment of a force, Moment of a force about a point, Moment of a force about
an axis, Arm of the force, Varignon’s principle, Parallel forces, Resultant of parallel
forces, Couple, Moment of a couple about any point lying in the plane, Resolution of a
force into a force-couple and vice versa, Resultant of coplanar non-concurrent forces,
Equilibrium of coplanar non-concurrent forces.
UNIT - III
FRICTION:
Types of Friction, Limiting Friction, Coulomb Laws of Friction, Coefficient of friction
Static friction, Kinetic friction, Angle of friction, Cone of static friction, Equilibrium of
bodies on rough horizontal and inclined planes, Equilibrium of connected bodies on
rough horizontal and inclined planes, Ladder friction, wedge friction, screw friction.
UNIT – IV
CENTROID, CENTRE OF GRAVITY:
Centroid, Centroids of simple figures (from basic principles) – Centroids of composite
figures and built-up sections, Centroids of Symmetric figures, Center of parallel forces,
Center of gravity ,Centre of gravity of simple bodies (from basic principles) , Centre of
gravity of composite bodies, Centre of gravity of Symmetric bodies, Pappus theorems.
UNIT – V
MOMENT OF INERTIA:
Introduction, Moment of inertia of plane areas, Radius of gyration, Polar moment of
inertia, Parallel axis theorem, Perpendicular axis theorem, Moments of inertia of simple
figures from basic principles and composite figures. Product of inertia, moment of
33
inertia about inclined axis, Principle moment of inertia. Mass moment of Inertia:
Introduction, Moments of inertia of simple bodies from basic principles and composite
bodies.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Mechanics by Timoshenko and Young, Tata Mc-Graw Hill
Publishers
2. Engineering Mechanics by S.S. Bhavikatti, New age International Publishers
3. Engineering Mechanics by R.K. Bansal, Laxmi Publishers
REFERENCES:
1. Singer’s Engineering Mechanics by K. Vijaya Kumar Reddy ,BS Publishers
2. Engineering Mechanics (Statics) by Meriam and Kraige, John Wiley
Publishers
3. Engineering Mechanics by Tayal, Umesh Publishers
34
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME / AE I Sem L T/P/D C
2 4 4
(MED1102) ENGINEERING GRAPHICS – I
UNIT I
Introduction to AutoCAD.
INTRODUCTION TO ENGINEERING DRAWING
Principles of engineering graphics and their significance; Drawing instruments and their
uses; Conventions in drawing-lettering; BIS Convention; Different types of scales;
Scale of chords.
UNIT II
CURVES USED IN ENGINEERING PRACTICE AND THEIR CONSTRUCTION
Ellipse; Parabola; Hyperbola and Rectangular hyperbola; Cycloid; Epicycloids;
Hypocycloid – Involutes.
UNIT III
ORTHOGRAPHIC PROJECTION
Points and straight lines inclined to both planes; True lengths and traces.
UNIT IV
PROJECTION OF PLANES
Projection of regular planes inclined to both planes; Auxiliary projections.
UNIT V
PROJECTION OF SOLIDS
Projection of regular solids-inclined to both planes; Auxiliary projections.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Elementary Engineering Drawing by N.D. Bhat; Publisher: Charotar
Publishing House
2. Engineering Drawing by K.L. Narayana and P. Kannaiah; Publisher: Scitech
Publications.
3. Engineering Graphics for degree by K.C. John; Publisher: Prentice Hall of
India.
35
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME / AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(EPC 1201) ENGINEERING PHYSICS AND CHEMISTRY LAB
Any Eight Experiments from the following:
1. Dispersive Power of the material of a Prism using Spectrometer
2. Diffraction Grating (both with Laser and non laser source)
3. Single Slit with laser light
4. Newton’s Rings
5. Finding thickness of a thin wire or sheet by forming a wedge shaped film
6. Energy gap of a semiconductor material
7. To determine the rigidity modulus of material of a wire
8. Melde’s experiment
9. Sonometer Experiment
10. AC frequency by sonometer method
11. Numerical Aperture and Acceptance angle of an optical fiber cable
12. Attenuation and Bending losses in optical fiber
13. Stewart Gee’s experiment
14. Characteristics of LED/Laser Diode.
15. Photo cell/ Solar Cell
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Essential Practical Lab Manual in Physics: by P.Raghavendra Rao
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
1. Titrimetry: a) Estimation of hardness of water by EDTA method.
2. Instrumental methods
(i) Conductometry: a) Conductometric titration of strong acid vs strong base
(ii) Colorimetry: a) Estimation of copper by colorimetric method
(iii) pH metry: a)Titration of strong acid vs strong base by pH metry
3. Physical properties: a) Determination of viscosity of sample oil by Redwood
viscometer.
4. Preparations:
a) Preparation of soap
b) Preparation of Nano particles.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by S.K.Bhasin and Sudha
Rani; Publisher: Dhanpat Rai.
2. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari and
Jyotsna Cherukuri; Publisher: VGS Book Links.
36
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech (Common to CSE, IT, ME, AE) I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ENG1201) ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY- I
The English language Communication Skills Lab aims to provide practice in all the four
skills of LSRW, with a special emphasis on listening and speaking skills.
UNIT I
MULTIMEDIA LAB
1. Sounds of English
2. Listening Comprehension
3. Vocabulary Lesson 1
COMMUNICATION SKILLS LAB: Introduction of Self and others
UNIT II
MULTIMEDIA LAB
1. Grammar ---Nouns and Pronouns; The Present Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 2
3. Listening Skills
COMMUNICATION SKILLS LAB: Seeking and Giving Information
UNIT III
MULTIMEDIA LAB
1. Grammar --- Articles; The Past Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 3
3. Telephoning Skills
COMMUNICATION SKILLS LAB: Giving and Taking Instructions
UNIT IV
MULTIMEDIA LAB
1. Grammar ---- Concord; The Future Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 4
3. Listening Comprehension
COMMUNICATION SKILLS LAB: Role Play/ Situational Dialogues
UNIT V
MULTIMEDIA LAB
1. Grammar --- Adjectives, adverbs, conjunctions
2. Vocabulary -- Lesson 5
COMMUNICATION SKILLS LAB : i) jam/ short talk
ii) Information Transfer a) Data Analysis
b) Interpretation of Graph
37
MULTIMEDIA LAB REQUIREMENTS
Minimum Requirement:
The English Language Lab shall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Lab for 60 students with 60 systems, one
master console,
LAN facility and English language software for self- study by learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Lab with movable chairs and audio-visual aids
with a P.A System,
A T. V., a digital stereo –audio and video system and camcorder etc.
System Requirement (Hardware component):
Computer network with LAN with minimum 60 multimedia systems with the following
specifications:
iv) P – IV Processor
a) Speed – 2.8 GHZ
b) RAM – 512 MB Minimum
c) Hard Disk – 80 GB
v) Headphones of High quality
5. Suggested Software:
The software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above should be procured
and used.
Suggested Software:
o Clarity Pronunciation Power – part II
o Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
o DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill
Practice.
o Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
o TOEFL and GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO and BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE
by CLIFFS)
38
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech CE, ME and AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ITD1201) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING AND DATA
STRUCTURES LABORATORY
Week 1
1. Write a program that reads three different integers from the keyboard and
prints – sum, average, product, smallest, largest of the numbers.
2. Write a program that reads two integers and prints – difference, quotient and
remainder
3. WAP that reads two integers and determines whether the first is a multiple of
the other
Week 2
1. Write a C program to find the sum of individual digits of a positive integer.
2. Write a C program for Fibonacci sequence.
3. Write a C program to generate the first n terms of the sequence.
4. Write a C program to generate all the prime numbers between 1 and n, where
n is a value supplied by the user.
Week 3
1. Write a C program to calculate the following Sum:
Sum=1-x2/2! +x4/4!-x6/6!+x8/8!-x10/10!
2. Write a C program toe find the roots of a quadratic equation.
Week 4
1. Write C programs that use both recursive and non-recursive functions
i) To find the factorial of a given integer.
ii) To find the GCD (greatest common divisor) of two given integers.
iii) To solve Towers of Hanoi problem.
Week 5
1. Write a C program, which takes two integer operands and one operator from
the user, performs the operation and then prints the result. (Consider the
operators +,-,*, /, % and use Switch Statement)
2. Write a program to print a given number [0-1000] in words. For example, 123
as One Hundred and Twenty Three
Week 6
1. WAP to check whether a given number is an Armstrong, Palindrome, Perfect,
Prime, or a Fibonacci Number
39
2. Write a C program to find both the largest and smallest number in a list of
integers
Week 7
1. Write a C program to generate Pascal’s triangle.
2. Write a C program to construct a pyramid of numbers.
Week 8
1. Write a C program to calculate
i) Minimum and maximum of an 1-d array
ii) Sorting an array
iii) Searching an array
Week 9
1. Write a C program that uses functions to perform the following:
i) Addition of Two Matrices
ii) Multiplication of Two Matrices
iii) To find the determinant of a 3 by 3 matrix
Week 10
1. Write a C program that uses functions to perform the following operations
using
Pointers:
i. To insert a sub-string in to a given main string from a given position
ii. To delete n Characters from a given position in a given string.
iii. To reverse a given string
Week 11
1. Write C Programs to implement Structures and Nested structures with
suitable Examples
(Students has to practice with relevant examples taught in the class room)
Week 12
1. Write C Programs using Pointers and Pointer Arithmetic operations
2. Write C Programs using Pointers to structures, Pointers to Arrays and
Pointers to strings (Students has to practice with relevant examples taught in
the class room)
Week 13
1. Write C Programs to implement the following sorting algorithms
a. Bubble Sort b. Selection sort c. Insertion Sort
Week 14
1. Write a C program to implement STACK and QUEUE operations using Arrays
Week 15
1. Write a C program to implement the following searching techniques.
a. Linear Search b. Binary Search
Week 16 Lab Internal Examination
40
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME and AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MTH1102) MATHEMATICS – II
(Linear Algebra and Ordinary Differential Equations)
LINEAR ALGEBRA
UNIT I
SOLUTION OF LINEAR SYSTEMS
Matrices and linear systems of equations - elementary row transformations, Rank, row
Echelon form, and normal form; Solution of linear systems - direct methods - LU
decomposition, LU decomposition from Gauss elimination, and solution of Tri-diagonal
systems by Thomas algorithm; Eigen values, eigen vectors, and their properties -
Liner dependence and independence; Cayley-Hamilton theorem (without proof) -
inverse and powers of a matrix by Cayley-Hamilton theorem, diagonalization of a
matrix, calculation of powers of a matrix; Modal and spectral matrices.
UNIT II
LINEAR TRANSFORMATIONS
Real matrices - symmetric, skew symmetric, and orthogonal linear transformation;
Complex matrices - Hermitian, Skew-Hermitian and unitary matrices; Quadratic forms
- reduction of quadratic form to canonical form, rank, positive, negative definite, semi
definite, index, signature, Sylvester law, and singular value decomposition.
ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
UNIT III
ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS AND THEIR APPLICATIONS
Differential equations of first order and first degree - Linear, Bernoulli and exact
differential equation; Applications of differential equations of first order and first degree
- Newton’s law of cooling, Law of natural growth and decay, Orthogonal trajectories,
and basic circuits.
UNIT IV
DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS OF HIGHER ORDER AND THEIR APPLICATIONS
Differential equations of higher order - homogeneous and non-homogenous type,
differential equations of second order and higher order with constant coefficients with
ax ax
right hand side term of the type e , sin (ax), cos (ax), polynomials in x, e V(x),
x V(x), and method of variation of parameters and Euler-Cauchy’s 2nd order differential
equations, applications to mechanical systems and Simple harmonic motion.
41
UNIT V
LAPLACE TRANSFORM AND APPLICATION TO ODE
Laplace transform of standard functions; Inverse transform-first shifting theorem;
Dirac’s delta function; Convolution theorem; Periodic function; Differentiation and
integration of transforms; Application of Laplace transforms to ordinary differential
equations.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Differential Equations, with Applications and Historical Notes by George F.
Simmons and John S. Robertson (2008) 2nd Edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw
Hill.
2. A First Course in Differential Equations by Dennis G. Zill; Publisher: Brooks
Cole.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Dennis G. Zill, Warren S. Wright, and
Michael R. Cullen, 4th edition; Publisher: Jones and Bartlett Learning.
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition; Publisher:
John Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher:
Cengage Learning.
3. Elementary Differential Equations and Boundary Value Problems by William
E. Boyce and Richard C. Diprima; Publisher: Wiley.
4. Linear Algebra and its applications by David C Clay; Publisher: Pearson
Education.
42
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(PHY1102) PHYSICS OF MATERIALS
UNIT -I
CRYSTAL STRUCTURES:
Space lattice – Unit cell – Lattice parameter – Crystal systems – Bravais lattices
Atomic radius – Co-ordination number - Structures and Packing fractions of Simple
Cubic – Body Centered Cubic – Face Centered Cubic crystals – Hexagonal closed
packed crystals - Structures of diamond, NaCl.
BONDING IN SOLIDS:
Force and energy between two approaching atoms, primary and secondary bonds,
binding energy and cohesive energy, Madelung constant, cohesive energy and
Madelung constant for NaCl crystal
UNIT -II
DIRECTIONS, PLANES AND X-RD:
Miller Indices for Crystal planes and directions – Inter planar spacing of orthogonal
crystal systems –Diffraction of X-rays by crystal planes and Bragg’s law– Laue method
– Powder method.
DEFECTS IN SOLIDS:
Imperfections in crystals – Point defects (Vacancies, Interstitial and Impurities)
Schottky and Frenkel defects – (with mathematical treatment)- Line imperfections –
Edge and Screw dislocation – Burger vector – Surface defects and volume defects
(Qualitative Treatment).
UNIT -III
MAGNETIC PROPERTIES OF MATERIALS:
Permeability, Field intensity, magnetic field induction, Magnetization and Magnetic
susceptibility – Origin of magnetic moment, Bohr magneton – Classification of
magnetic materials (Dia, Para and Ferro)- Domain theory of ferromagnetism,
Hysteresis curve – Soft and Hard magnetic materials – Ferrites and their applications.
UNIT -IV
DIELECTRIC PROPERTIES:
Electric dipole, Dipole moment, Dielectric constant, Electronic, Ionic and Orientation
Polarization – Calculation of Polarizibilities – Internal fields – Claussius – Mossotti
equation –Piezo and Ferro electricity.
43
SUPERCONDUCTORS:
Experimental survey and superconductivity phenomenon, – Meissner effect – Critical
fields and Persistent currents, Type I and Type II superconductors - London equations-
flux quantization, Applications of Superconductors.
UNIT -V
SURFACE PHYSICS:
Work function, Thermionic emission, Contact Potential, Electron Microscope, Scanning
Tunneling Microscope.
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY OF NANOMATERIALS:
Origin of nanotechnology – (Basic principles of Nanoscience and Technology) surface
to volume ratio, quantum confinement – Fabrication of nano materials Bottom up
fabrication: sol-gel and combustion methods – Top down fabrication: CVD& PVD
methods– Applications of nanotechnology.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel (Publishers: John Wiley
and Sons)
2. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd
REFERENCES:
1. Solid State Physics by A.J.Dekker; Macmillan Publishers India Ltd.
2. Engineering Physics by Dr M Chandra Shekar and Dr P. Appala Naidu, VGS
Book links.
3. Engineering Physics by G Sahashrabuddhe; University Press
4. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
5. Engineering Physics by M.R.Srinivasan, New Age Publishers.
6. S
44
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech II Sem (Common to all Branches) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(ENG1101) ENGLISH
Introduction
This is the age of information and communication technologies. Engineers and
technical professionals need to convey technical information in English for various
purposes.
Besides learning general English as an international language, engineering students
need to be equipped with adequate writing ability so that they can communicate
technical information clearly on at least a basic level. A good English writing proficiency
can be a contributing factor to professional recognition and career prospects. This
course teaches those writing strategies that scientists, engineers, and others will need
in order to write successfully on the job. It initiates the students into Technical Writing.
The purposes of technical writing are to inform and persuade. This program aims to
train students in writing clear, concise and effective English.
This syllabus is therefore, a Pragmatic English Writing Program for engineering
students with intermediate proficiency. The program covers a syllabus outline and
instructional approaches on basic writing skills with particular reference to technical
writing.
Objectives:
i) To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for advanced writing and
speaking.
ii) To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns and
grammatical constructions required of in technical writing.
iii) To acquaint the students with the writing process, beginning with paragraph
writing. This would prepare them for academic and workplace writing.
iv) Equip the students with Oral Communication Skills.
Methodology
A Task-based, process oriented methodology will be used by the teachers to give a
practical orientation to the teaching of language. An inductive approach will be used to
demonstrate the use of language in context. This should enable the students to
internalize the language structures and vocabulary used in context. Students will be
exposed to numerous examples and ample practice will be given in the contextual use
of language structures.
45
R
Syllabus Outline
UNIT I : REVIEW OF GRAMMAR
i) Common Errors v) Use of Articles and Prepositions
ii) Subject-Verb Agreement vi) Conjunctions
iii) Adverbs vii) pronoun reference
v) Transitional elements
UNIT II : PROSE 1
1. Heaven’s Gate by Pico Iyer
2. The Connoisseur by Nergis Dalal
UNIT III : READING AND WRITING SKILLS
i) Reading Comprehension -- Skimmimg and scanning
ii) Reading Comprehension -- Intensive reading
iii) Reading Comprehension -- Critical Analysis
iv) Paragraph Writing
v) Letter Writing
vi) Memo Writing
UNIT IV : PROSE 2
1. The Cuddalore Experience by Anu George
2. The Odds Against Us by Satyajit Ray
UNIT V : ADVANCED WRITING SKILLS
1. Comparison and Contrast Pattern
2. Cause and Effect Pattern
3. Classification
4. Analogy
5. Problem-Solution Pattern
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Enjoying Every day English by A. Ramakrishna Rao
2. Effective Technical Communication by Ashraf Rizvi
3. Technical Writing Process and Product by Gerson Sharon J. and
Steven Gerson, 3rd edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
REFERENCES:
1. M. Raman and S. Sharma, 2004; Technical Communication : Principles
and Practices, OUP, (Indian Edition)
46
2. Blanton, L.L. 1993; Composition Practice, Book 4 ,Second Edition,
Heinle and Heine Publishers, pp. 54
3. Georges, T.M. 1996; A course in Analytical Writing for Science and
Technology,
http://www.mspiggy.etl.noaa.gov/write/
4. Neufeld, J.K. 1987; A Handbook for Technical Communication, Prentice-
Hall, Inc. pp.20,65-68
5. Yalden, J. 1987; Principles of Course Design for Language Teaching,
Cambridge University Press
6. David F. Beer and David McMurrey Guide to Writing as an Engineer, 2nd
ed., Wiley, 2004, ISBN: 0471430749.
7. Greaney, G.L. 1997; Less is More: Summary Writing and Sentence
Structure in the Advanced ESL Classroom, The Internet TESL Journal,
Vol.III, No.9
http://iteslj.org/Techniques/Greaney-Writing.html
47
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I B.Tech CSE, IT II Sem L T/P/D C
CE, ME, AE, ECE, EEE, EIE II Sem 3 0 3
(CHE1101) ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
UNIT I
ELECTROCHEMICAL CELLS AND BATTERIES
Conductance-factors effecting conductance, conductometric titrations; cells: types of
cells, cell representation, electrode potential; Standard electrode potential;
Electrochemical series; Nernst equation; Reference electrodes – hydrogen, calomel
electrode; Ion selective electrodes (glass electrode and flouride electrode); Numerical
problems.
BATTERIES
Primary and secondary cells (lead-acid cell; Ni-Cd cell; lithium cells); Applications of
batteries; Fuel cells – methanol – oxygen fuel cells, advantages of fuel cells; Solar cells
- principle, and applications.
UNIT II
CORROSION AND ITS CONTROL
Introduction; Causes and effects of corrosion; Different types of corrosion; Theories of
corrosion – chemical, electrochemical corrosion (reactions); Factors affecting corrosion
– nature of metal (galvanic series; over voltage; purity of metal; nature of oxide film;
nature of corrosion product), and nature of environment (effect of temperature; effect
of pH; humidity; effect of oxidant).
Corrosion control methods – cathodic protection, sacrificial anode, and impressed
current cathode;
Surface coatings – methods of application on metals (hot dipping; galvanizing; tinning;
cladding; electroplating), and organic surface coatings (paints - constituents and
functions).
UNIT III
a) POLYMERS
Introduction; Types of polymerization; Plastics - thermoplastic resins, and thermoset
resins; Compounding and fabrication of plastics; Preparation, properties, and
engineering applications of polyethylene, PVC, PS, Teflon, bakelite, nylon.
b) RUBBER
Natural rubber- processing, vulcanization; Elastomers (Buna-s; Butyl rubber; Thiokol
rubbers); Fiber reinforced plastics (FRP) and their applications.
48
UNIT IV
WATER
Introduction; Hardness - causes, expression of hardness, units, types of hardness,
estimation of temporary and permanent hardness of water, and numerical problems;
Boiler troubles – scale and sludge formation, caustic embrittlement, corrosion, priming
and foaming; Softening of water (Internal and external treatment - lime soda, zeolite,
ion exchange process, and numerical problems); Reverse osmosis and Electro dialysis
(desalination processes).
UNIT V
NANOMATERIALS
Introduction; Preparation and applications of nanomaterials with special reference to
carbon nanotubes.
INSULATORS
Classification of insulators; characteristics of thermal and electrical insulators and their
applications; Superconductors - Nb-Sn alloy, YBa Cu O ; Applications of
2 3 7-x
superconductors.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna Cherukuri; Publisher:
VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain and Monica Jain, Publisher: Dhanpat Rai
Publishing Company.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara and Mukkanti; Publisher: S.Chand and
Co.
2. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna
3. Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, Sulochana
Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
4. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi ,Cengage
Learning Publications.
49
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ME / AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MED 1103) ENGINEERING MECHANICS – II
UNIT – I
TRUSSES:
Introduction –Types of Trusses, Assumptions made in the analysis of Trusses, Method
of Joints, Method of Sections, Force table, Cantilever Trusses, Trusses with one end
hinged and the other freely supported on rollers carrying horizontal or inclined loads.
Frames: Introduction, Types of Frames, Method of members.
UNIT – II
VIRTUAL WORK:
Equilibrium of ideal systems, Virtual displacement, Concept of virtual work, Principle of
virtual work, Application of principle of virtual work to beams, ladders, framed
structures.
UNIT – III
KINEMATICS:
Kinematics of particles - Path, Tortuous path, Plane path, Rectilinear motion,
Displacement, Displacement time diagram, Velocity, Instantaneous velocity, Average
velocity, Velocity time diagram, Acceleration, Variable acceleration, Average
acceleration, Curvilinear motions, normal and tangential accelerations, Projectiles,
Kinematics of rigid bodies rotation about a fixed axis
UNIT - IV
KINETICS:
Kinetics of particles, Newton’s Second Law, differential equations of rectilinear and
curvilinear motions, motion of a particle acted upon by constant force, Dynamic
equilibrium, Inertia force, D’Alembert’s Principle applied for rectilinear and curvilinear
motion, Kinetics of rigid bodies in rotation under action of a constant moment.
UNIT – V
WORK–ENERGY, IMPULSE–MOMENTUM METHOD:
Work of a force, Principle of Work and Energy, Application of principle of Work-Energy
for rectilinear motion, Impulse-Momentum Principle, Application of Impulse-Momentum
principle to connected bodies. Moment of momentum, Application of principle of Work-
Energy for curvilinear motion
50
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Mechanics by Timoshenko and Young, Tata Mc-Graw Hill
ublishers
2. Engineering Mechanics by S.S. Bhavikatti, New age International Publishers
3. Engineering Mechanics by R.K. Bansal, Laxmi Publishers
REFERENCES:
1. Singer’s Engineering Mechanics by K. Vijaya Kumar Reddy, BS Publishers
2. Engineering Mechanics (Statics) by Meriam and Kraige, John Wiley Publishers
3. Engineering Mechanics by Tayal, Umesh Publishers
51
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME / AE II Sem L T/P/D C
2 4 4
(MED1104) ENGINEERING GRAPHICS – II (USING AUTOCAD)
UNIT I
SECTIONS AND SECTIONAL VIEWS
Sections of right regular solids-prisms, pyramids, cylinders and cones – auxiliary views
DEVELOPMENT OF SURFACES
Development of surfaces of right regular solids prisms, pyramids, cylinders and cones.
UNIT II
INTERSECTION OF SOLIDS
Intersection of prism Vs prism, cylinder vs prism, cylinder vs cylinder and cylinder vs
cone
UNIT III
ISOMETRIC PROJECTIONS
Principles of isometric projections, Isometric scale, isometric views, conventions,
isometric views of lines, planes, simple and compound solids, isometric views of
objects having spherical parts.
UNIT IV
TRANSFORMATION OF PROJECTIONS
Conversion of isometric views to orthographic views - conventions for simple objects.
Construction of orthographic projections for given isometric projections.
UNIT V
PERSPECTIVE PROJECTIONS
Perspective view of points, lines, plane figures and simple solids, vanishing point
method and visual ray method
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Elementary Engineering Drawing by N.D.Bhat; Publisher: Charotar Publishing
House
2. Engineering Drawing by K.L. Narayana and P. Kannaiah; Publisher: Scitech
Publications.
3. Engineering Graphics for degree by K.C. John; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
52
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(MED1210) IT AND FUELS LAB
IT Lab
1. Computer Hardware: Identification of Peripherals
2. Assembling and disassembling of a PC
3. Simple diagnostic exercises – Related to hardware
4. Installation of Windows Operating System
5. Installation of Linux Operating System
6. Linux Basic Commands
7. Simple diagnostic exercises –Related to Operating System
TEXTBOOKS:
1. IT Essentials PC Hardware and Software Companion Guide Third Edition by
Davis Anfinson and Ken Quamme – CISCO Press, Pearson Education.
2. PC Hardware and A+ Handbook – Kate J. Chase PHI (Microsoft)
Fuels Lab
Any Six Experiments
1. Find the flash and fire points of the given fuel (open cup method)
2. Find the flash and fire points of the given fuel (closed cup method)
3. Find the calorific value of the given fuel using Bomb calorimeter
4. Find the calorific of the gas using Junkers gas calorimeter
5. To do carbon residue test using Conradson apparatus
6. To analyze the exhaust gas using Orsat apparatus
7. To find viscosity using Saybolt Apparatus
53
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(MED1201) ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
TRADES FOR EXCERCISES
At least two exercises from each trade:
1. Carpentry
2. Tin-Smithy
3. Fitting
4. Welding
5. Electrical Wiring
TRADES FOR DEMONSTRATION and EXPOSURE:
1. Power tools in construction, wood working, electrical engineering and
mechanical engineering.
2. Machine shop.
3. CNC Lathe
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Workshop Manual by P.Kannaiah and K.L.Narayana; Publisher: Scitech.
54
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech (Common to CSE, IT, ME, AE) II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ENG 1202) ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY - II
In continuation with the first Year I semester syllabus, this course offers further practice
in Listening, Speaking, and Grammar in preparation for the advanced speaking and
writing skills offered in the III Year .
UNIT- I
MULTIMEDIA LAB:
1. Grammar – Active and Passive Voice
2. Vocabulary Lesson 6
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: i) Data Analysis (Writing) ii) Interpretation of visuals
UNIT- II
MULTIMEDIA LAB:
1. Grammar - Conditionals and Prepositions
2. Vocabulary Lesson 7
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: Presentation Skills : Oral Presentation
UNIT-III
MULTIMEDIA LAB:
1. Grammar -- Language Analysis
2. Vocabulary Lesson 8
Communication Skills Lab: Presentation Skills : PPTs
UNIT-IV
MULTIMEDIA LAB:
1. Grammar – Common Errors
2. Writing: Self Introduction (in the Written Form)
3. Vocabulary Lesson 9
4. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: Debate
UNIT-V
MULTIMEDIA LAB:
1. Introduction to Technical Writing
A. Definition of a Technical Term
B. Description of a Mechanism
C. Description of a Technical Process
2. Vocabulary Lesson 10
COMMUNICATION SKILLS LAB: Group Discussions
55
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MTH1103) MATHEMATICS III
(Partial Differential Equations and Integral Transforms)
PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
UNIT I
PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
Introduction and formation of partial differential equations by elimination of arbitrary
constants and arbitrary functions; Solutions of first order linear (Lagrange’s) equation
and non-linear (standard type) equations; Method of separation of variables for second
order equations; Particular integrals.
INTEGRAL TRANSFROMS
UNIT II
FOURIER SERIES
Determination of Fourier coefficients; Fourier series - even and odd functions; Fourier
series in an arbitrary interval; Half range Fourier series, sine and cosine series.
UNIT III
FOURIER TRANSFORMS
Fourier integral theorem (only statement); Fourier sine, cosine integrals and complex
form of Fourier integral; Fourier transforms - Fourier sine and cosine transforms;
Inverse transforms; Properties and convolution theorem; finite Fourier transforms;
cosine and sine transforms.
UNIT IV
STANDARD PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
Solutions of wave equation, heat equation and Laplace equation and their use in
problems of vibrating string; one dimensional unsteady heat flow; two dimensional
steady heat flow.
UNIT V
Z-TRANSFORM
Z-transform; Inverse z-transform; Properties, initial, and final value theorems;
Convolution theorem; Difference equations; Solutions of difference equations using z-
transform.
56
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – by B.S.Grewal
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Dennis G. Zill and Warren S. Wright;
4th edition; Publisher: Jones and Bartlett Learning.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by S.R.K . Iyengar
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher:
John Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher:
Cengage Learning.
57
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MED1106) SOLID MECHANICS
UNIT I
TENSION, COMPRESSION, AND SHEAR
Introduction; Normal Stress and Strain; Stress-strain diagrams; Elasticity and plasticity;
Linear elasticity and Hooke’s law; Allowable stress and allowable loads.
AXIALLY LOADED MEMBERS
Introduction; Deflections of axially loaded members; Strain energy; Dynamic loading.
UNIT II
Area moment of inertia of composite sections.
STRESSES IN BEAMS
Introduction; Normal strains in beams; Normal stresses in beams; Cross-sectional
shapes of beams-C, angular and semicircle structures; Shear stresses in rectangular
beams; Shear stress in webs of beams with flanges; Shear stress in circular beams
(solid and hollow sections); Concept of shear center and shear flow
UNIT III
SHEAR FORCE AND BENDING MOMENT DIAGRAMS
Types of beams; Types of loading; Shear force and bending moment; Relationship
between load, shear force and bending moment; Shear force and bending moment
diagrams.
TORSION
Introduction; Torsion of circular bars; Non uniform torsion; Pure shear; Relationship
between modulus of elasticity E and G; Transmission of power by circular shafts.
UNIT IV
ANALYSIS OF STRESS AND STRAIN
Introduction; Plane stress; Principal stresses and maximum shear stresses; Mohr’s
circle for plane stress; Hooke’s law for plane stress; Spherical and cylindrical pressure
vessels (biaxial stress; Hoop and longitudinal stresses); Combined loadings (plane
stress); Principal stresses in beams.
UNIT V
DEFLECTIONS OF BEAMS
Introduction; Differential equations of the deflection curve; Deflections by integration of
the bending moment equation; Deflections by integration of the shear-force and load
equations; Macaulay’s method; Moment area method; Method of superposition.
58
TEXT BOOK:
1. Mechanics of Materials (SI units) by J.M.Gere and S.P.Timoshenko;
Publisher: CBS Publishers.
REFERENCE:
1. Engineering Mechanics of Solids by Popov; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Strength of Materials Schaum’s Series.
59
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(MED1107) THERMODYNAMICS
UNIT I
CONCEPTS AND DEFINITIONS
Thermodynamic system and control volume; Macroscopic versus microscopic point of view;
Properties and state of a substance; Processes and cycles, Energy, Specific volume and
density, Equality of temperature; The Zeroth law of thermodynamics; Temperature scales.
WORK AND HEAT
Definition of work; Units for work; Work done at the moving boundary of a simple
compressible system; Other systems that involve work; Definition of heat; Heat transfer modes;
Comparison of heat and work.
THE FIRST LAW OF THERMODYNAMICS
The first law of thermodynamics for a control mass undergoing a cycle; The first law of
thermodynamics for a change in state of a control mass; Internal energy-a thermodynamic
property; Problem analysis and solution technique; Enthalpy; The constant-volume and
constant-pressure specific heats; The internal energy, enthalpy, and specific heat of ideal
gases; The first law as a rate equation.
FIRST LAW ANALYSIS FOR A CONTROL VOLUME
Conversion of mass and the control volume, The first law of thermodynamics for a control
volume, The steady-state process; Examples of steady-state processes.
UNIT II
THE SECOND LAW OF THERMODYNAMICS
Heat engines and refrigerators; The second law of thermodynamics; The reversible process;
Factors that render processes irreversible; The Carnot cycle; Two propositions regarding
the efficiency of a Carnot cycle; The thermodynamic temperature scale; The ideal-gas
temperature scale; Ideal versus real machines.
ENTROPY FOR A CONTROL MASS
The inequality of Clausius; Entropy — a property of a system; The entropy of a pure
substance; Entropy change in reversible processes; The thermodynamic property
relation; Entropy change of an ideal gas; The reversible polytropic process for an ideal gas;
Entropy change of a control mass during an irreversible process; Entropy generation;
Principle of increase of entropy; Entropy as a rate equation.
UNIT III
IRREVERSIBILITY AND AVAILABILITY
Available energy; Reversible work and irreversibility; Availability and second-law efficiency;
Exergy balance equation.
60
Introduction to Third law of Thermodynamics & Concept of absolute entropy
PROPERTIES OF A PURE SUBSTANCE
The pure substance; Vapor- liquid- solid- phase equilibrium in a pure substance;
Independent properties of a pure substance; Steam Tables; Thermodynamic surfaces;
The compressibility factor; Equations of state.
UNIT IV
POWER CYCLES
Introduction to power systems; The Rankine cycle; Effect of pressure and temperature on
the Rankine cycle; Air-standard power cycles; The Brayton cycle; The air-standard
cycle for jet propulsion; Reciprocating engine power cycles; The Otto cycle; The Diesel
cycle; The Dual cycle, The Stirling cycle; The Atkinson and Miller cycles
UNIT V
IDEAL GAS MIXTURES
General consideration and mixtures of ideal gases; ideal gas equation Daltons law of partial
pressure
THERMODYNAMIC PROPERTY RELATIONS
Mathematical relations for a homogeneous phase; The Maxwell relations;
Thermodynamic relations involving enthalpy, internal energy, and entropy; The
Clapeyron equation; Joule-Thompson coefficient; Volume expansivity, and
isothermal and adiabatic compressibility; Real gas behavior and equations of state;
The generalized chart for changes of enthalpy at constant temperature; The
generalized chart for changes of entropy at constant temperature; The property relation
for mixtures; Tables of thermodynamic properties of gases.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Fundamentals of Thermodynamics by C. Borgnakke and R.E. Sonntag;
Publisher Wiley India Pvt. Ltd.
2. Engineering Thermodynamics by P.K. Nag.
REFERENCES:
1. Fundamentals of Thermodynamics by C. Borgnakke, R.E. Sonntag,
and G.J. Van Wylen; Publisher John Wiley.
2. Engineering Thermodynamics by Burgadt, Harper & Row Publication
3. Thermodynamics — An engineering approach by Yunus Cengel and Boles;
Publisher: TMH.
61
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(MED1108) METALLURGY AND MATERIAL SCIENCE
UNIT I
METAL STRUCTURE AND CRYSTALLIZATION
Introduction - atom binding, ionic bond, covalent bond, metallic bond, and Vander
Waals forces; Crystal imperfections
OVERVIEW OF METAL STRUCTURE AND CRYSTALLIZATION. CONSTITUTION
OF ALLOYS
Introduction; Classification of alloys or compounds; Pure metal; Intermediate alloy
phase or compound - intermetallic compounds or valency compounds, interstitial
compounds, and electron compounds; Solid solutions; Substitution solid solution -
factors that control the range of solubility in alloy system; Interstitial solid solutions.
UNIT II
PHASE DIAGRAMS
Introduction; Coordinates of phase diagrams; Experimental methods - construction of
equilibrium diagrams by thermal analysis, metallographic methods, and X-ray
diffraction;
Type-I-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid and solid states; Chemical
composition of phases; relative amounts of each phase; Equilibrium cooling of a solid
solution alloy; Diffusion; Nonequilibrium cooling; Homogenization; Properties of solid-
solution alloys; Variation of Type I; Type II-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid
state and completely insoluble in the solid state; Type III-Two metals completely
soluble in the liquid state but only partly soluble in the solid state; Properties of eutectic
alloy systems; Age hardening – solution treatment, and aging process; Type IV-The
congruent-melting intermediate phase; Type V-The peritectic reaction; Type VI-Two
liquids partly soluble in the liquid state: the monotectic reaction; Type VII-two metals
insoluble in the liquid and solid states; Interrelation of basic types;
Transformations in the solid state - allotropy, order-disorder transformation, the
eutectoid reaction, the peritectoid reaction, and complex diagrams;
Study of important binary phase diagrams of Cu-Ni, Al-Si, Sib-Pb, Pt-Ag, Bi-Cod, Cu-
Pb, Cu-Son and Fe-Fe3C.
UNIT III
THE HEAT TREATMENT OF STEEL
Introduction; Full Annealing; Spheroidizing; Stress-relief annealing; Process annealing;
Normalizing; Hardening; The isothermal transformation diagram; Transformation to
Pearlite and Bainite; Cooling curves and I-T Diagram; Transformation on continuous
62
cooling; Position of the I-T curves; Hardening or austenitizing temperature;
Homogeneity of austenite; Mechanism of heat removal during quenching - vapor-
blanket cooling state (stage A), vapor transport cooling stage (stage B), Liquid cooling
stage (stage C); Quenching medium; Temperature of quenching medium; Surface
condition - methods to minimize the formation of scale - copper plating, protective
atmosphere, liquid-salt pots, and cast-iron chips; Size and Mass; Hardenability; Use of
Hardenability data; Tempering; Austempering; Surface heat treatment or case
hardening; Carburizing; Heat treatment after carburizing; Cyaniding and Carbonitriding;
Nitriding; Flame hardening; Induction Hardening; Residual Stresses; Hardenable
carbon steels; Effect of cryogenic heat treatment – A brief study.
UNIT IV
ALLOY STEELS
Introduction; Purpose of alloying; Effect of alloying elements upon Ferrite; Effect of
alloying elements upon carbide; Influence of alloying elements on the iron-iron carbide
diagram; Effect of alloying elements in tampering; Classification of steels - nickel steel,
chromium steel, nickel-chromium steels, manganese steels, molybdenum steels,
tungsten steels, vanadium steels, silicon steels, stainless steels, martensitic stainless
steels, ferritic stainless steels, austenitic stainless steels, precipitation-hardening
stainless steels, maraging steels, and ausforming.
TOOL STEELS
Classification of tool steels; Selection of tool steels; Comparative properties; Non-
deforming properties; Depth of hardening; Toughness; Wear resistance; Red-
hardness; Machinability; Resistance to decarburization; Brand names; Water-
hardening tool steels (Group W); Shock resisting tool steels (Group S); Cold-work tool
steels; Hot-work tool steels (Group H); High speed tool steels; Mold Steels (Group P);
Special purpose tool steels; Heat treatment of tool steels; Overview of tool failures;
Special cutting materials – satellites, cemented carbides, and ceramic tools.
UNIT V
CAST IRON
Introduction; Types of cast iron; White cast iron; Malleable cast iron; Pearlitic malleable
iron; Gray cast iron; Silicon in cast iron; Sulfur in cast iron; Manganese in cast iron;
Phosphorus in cast iron; Heat treatment of grey iron, Size and distribution of graphite
flakes; Mechanical properties and applications of grey cast iron; Chilled cast iron;
Nodular cast iron; Alloy cast irons.
NON-FERROUS METALS AND ALLOYS
Introduction; Copper and its alloys - Copper, temper designation of copper and copper
alloys, and copper alloys; Aluminum and its alloys - Aluminum, Alloy designation
system, and temper designation; Titanium and Titanium alloys.
63
TEXT BOOK:
1. Introduction to Physical Metallurgy by Sidney H. Avner; Publisher: McGraw-
Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Essentials of Materials Science and Engineering by Donald R. Askeland and
Thomson.
2. Materials Science and Engineering by William and Collister.
3. Elements of Materials Science by V.Raghavan
64
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(EEE1153) BASIC ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
UNIT - I
ELECTRICAL CIRCUITS:
Basic definitions, Types of elements, Ohm’s Law, Resistive networks, Kirchhoff’s Laws,
Inductive networks, capacitive networks, Series, Parallel circuits and Star-delta and
delta-star transformations.
UNIT - II
DC MACHINES:
Principle of operation of DC Generator – emf equation - types – Principle of operation
of DC Motor - DC motor types –torque equation – Three point starter -Swinburne’s test,
applications.
TRANSFORMERS:
Principle of operation of single phase transformer–emf equation–losses–OC and SC
tests - efficiency and regulation/
UNIT - III
AC MACHINES:
Principle of operation of alternator – regulation by synchronous impedance method –
Principle of operation of induction motor – slip – torque characteristics – applications.
INSTRUMENTS:
Principle and construction of permanent magnet moving coil and moving iron
instruments.
UNIT - IV
DIODE AND IT’S CHARACTERISTICS:
P-n junction diode, symbol, V-I Characteristics, Diode Applications: Rectifiers – Half
wave Full wave and Bridge rectifiers (simple Problems)
UNIT - V
TRANSISTORS:
PNP and NPN Junction transistor, Transistor as an amplifier, SCR characteristics and
applications
CATHODE RAY OSCILLOSCOPE:
Principles of CRT (Cathode Ray Tube), Deflection, Sensitivity, Electrostatic and
Magnetic deflection, Applications of CRO - Voltage, Current and frequency
measurements.
65
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Electronic Devices and Circuits David A Bell Oxford University Press.
2. Introduction to Electrical Engineering – M.S Naidu and S. Kamakshaiah, TMH
Publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Principles of Electrical and Electronics Engineering by V.K.Mehta, S.Chand
& Co.
2. Basic Electrical Engineering by Kothari and Nagarath, TMH Publications, 2nd
edition.
66
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(CMS1101) BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
UNIT I
BUSINESS AND NEW ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
Characteristic features of business; Features and evaluation of sole proprietorship;
Partnership; Joint stock company; Public enterprises and their types; Changing
business environment in post- liberalization scenario.
UNIT II
INTRODUCTION TO BUSINESS ECONOMICS, AND DEMAND ANALYSIS
Definition; Nature and scope of managerial economics - demand analysis
determinants; Law of demand and its exceptions.
ELASTICITY OF DEMAND AND DEMAND FORECASTING
Definition; Types; Measurement and significance of elasticity of demand; Demand
forecasting; Factors governing demand forecasting; Methods of demand forecasting -
survey methods, statistical methods, expert opinion method, test marketing, controlled
experiments, and judgmental approach to demand forecasting.
UNIT III
COST ANALYSIS
Cost concepts - opportunity cost, fixed vs. variable costs, explicit costs vs. implicit
costs, and out of pocket costs vs. imputed costs; Break-even analysis (BEA) -
determination of break-even point (simple problems), managerial significance, and
limitations of BEA.
CAPITAL AND CAPITAL BUDGETING
Capital and its significance; Types of capital; Estimation of fixed and working capital
requirements; Methods and sources of raising finance.
Nature and scope of capital budgeting; Features of capital budgeting proposals;
Methods of capital budgeting - payback method, accounting rate of return (ARR), and
net present value method (simple problems)
UNIT IV
THEORY OF PRODUCTION
Production function - isoquants and isocosts, least cost combination of inputs, and laws
of returns; Internal and external economics of scale.
MARKET STRUCTURES
Types of competition; Features of perfect competition, monopoly, and monopolistic
competition; Price-output determination in case of perfect competition and monopoly.
67
PRICING POLICIES AND METHODS
Cost plus pricing; Marginal cost pricing; Sealed bid pricing; Going rate pricing, Limit
pricing, Market skimming pricing, Penetration pricing, Two-part pricing, Block pricing,
Bundling pricing, Peak load pricing, Cross subsidization.
UNI T V
INTRODUCTION TO FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING
Double-entry book keeping; Journal; Ledger; Trial balance; Final accounts - trading
account, profit and loss account, and balance sheet with simple adjustments.
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS THROUGH RATIOS
Computation; Analysis and interpretation of liquidity ratios - current ratio, and quick
ratio; Activity ratios - inventory turnover ratio, and debtor turnover ratio; Capital
structure ratios – debt-equity ratio, and interest coverage ratio; Profitability ratios -
gross profit ratio, net profit ratio, operating ratio, P/E ratio, and EPs.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Managerial Economics and Financial Analysis by Aryasri, 2009; Publisher:
Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Managerial Economics by Varshney and Maheswari, 2009; Publisher: Sultan
Chand.
REFERENCES:
1. Financial Accounting for Management: An analytical perspective by Ambrish
Gupta, 2010; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Managerial Economics by H. Craig Peterson and W. Cris Lewis; Publisher:
Prentice Hall of India.
68
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(MED1203) METALLURGY AND MECHANICS OF SOLIDS LAB
Metallurgy lab (Six experiments)
1. Preparation and study of the microstructure of metals like Iron, Cu and Al.
2. Preparation and study of the microstructure of mild steels, low carbon steels, and
high carbon steels.
3. Study of the microstructures of cast irons.
4. Study of the microstructures of non-ferrous alloys.
5. Study of the microstructures of heat treated steels.
6. Harden ability of steels by Jiminy end quench test.
7. To find out the hardness of various treated and untreated steels.
8. Study the microstructure of cutting tools
Mechanics of Solids lab (Six experiments)
1. Direct tension test
2. Bending tests:
a) Simple supported beam
b) Cantilever beam
3. Torsion test
4. Hardness test
a) Brunel hardness test
b) Rockwell hardness test
5. Test on springs
6. Compression test on a cube
7. Impact test
8. Punch shear test
69
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(EEE1251) BASIC ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING LAB
Section A: Electrical Engineering:
The following experiments are required to be conducted as compulsory experiments:
1. Swinburne’s test on D.C. Shunt machine. (Predetermination of efficiency of a
given D.C. Shunt machine working as motor and generator)
2. Brake test on D.C Shunt Motor
3. OC and SC tests on single phase transformer (Predetermination of efficiency
and regulation at given power factors)
4. Brake test on 3-phase Induction motor (Determination of performance
characteristics)
5. Regulation of alternator by Synchronous impedance method
Section B: Electronics Engineering:
The following experiments are required to be conducted as compulsory experiments:
1. P-n Diode Characteristics
2. Transistor CE Characteristics (Input and Output)
3. Full wave Rectifier with and without filters
4. CE Amplifiers
5. SCR Characteristics
70
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech ME/AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MTH1106) PROBABILITY AND STATISTICS
UNIT I
PROBABILITY AND DISTRIBUTIONS
Sample space and events, Probability- The axioms of probability, some elementary
theorems, conditional probability, Baye’s theorem, Random variables - discrete and
continuous. Distributions - Binomial, Poisson and Normal distributions–related
properties.
UNIT II
SAMPLING DISTRIBUTIONS AND TESTING OF HYPOTHESIS
Sampling distributions, Sampling distribution of means (σ known and unknown), Point
estimation, interval estimation, Tests of hypothesis - Null hypothesis, Alternate
hypothesis, Type I, Type II errors, Critical region, Inferences concerning means and
proportions- Large samples- Test of hypothesis for single mean and difference
between the means, Test of hypothesis for the proportions- Single and difference
between the proportions, Confidence interval for the mean and proportions.
UNIT III
TESTS OF SIGNIFICANCE- SMALL SAMPLES
Tests of significance - t distributions, Confidence interval for the t- distribution, F-
distributions and Chi square distributions.
UNIT IV
CORRELATION AND REGRESSION
Coefficient of correlation, regression coefficient, the lines of regression, rank
correlation, correlation for bivariate frequency distributions.
UNIT V
RELIABILITY THEORY AND TIME SERIES ANALYSIS
Basic concepts of reliability, Normal failure law, Exponential failure law, The Weibull
failure law and reliability of systems, Time series- utility of time series analysis,
Components of time series, Preliminary adjustments before analyzing time series,
Measurement of trend by the method of least squares.
71
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Probability and Statistics for Engineers - Miller I.R. and Freund J.E, 5th
Edition, Prentice-Hall, 1995.
2. Introductory Probability and Statistical Application – Meyer, 2nd edition, Oxford
and Ibh, 1970.
3. Statistical Methods - S.P. Gupta, Sultan Chand and sons, 2011.
REFERENCES:
1. Reliability Engineering - Balagurusamy E, Tata McGraw Hill, 1984.
2. Elements of Applied Stochastic processes - Bhat U.N, Wiley Series in
Probability and Mathematical Statistics, 1983.
72
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/AE II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(MED1111) KINEMATICS OF MACHINES
UNIT-I
MECHANISMS AND MACHINES:
Elements or links-classification-rigid link, flexible and fluid link-types of kinematic pairs-
sliding pairs, turning, rolling, screw and spherical pairs-lower and higher pairs-closed
and open pairs-constrained motion-completely, partially or successfully constrained
and incompletely constrained.
Mechanisms, Machines -classification of machines- kinematic chain-inversion of
mechanism-inversions of quadric cycle chain, single and double slider crank chains,
Intermittent motion mechanisms.
UNIT-II
KINEMATICS:
Velocity and acceleration-motion of link in machine-Determination of velocity and
acceleration diagrams-graphical method- Application of relative velocity method- four
bar chain
ANALYSIS OF MECHANISMS:
Analysis of slider crank chain for displacement, velocity and acceleration of slider-
acceleration diagram for a given mechanism, Klein’s construction, Coriolis
acceleration, determination of Coriolis component of acceleration.
PLANE MOTION OF BODY:
Instantaneous center of rotation, centroids and axodes - relative motion between two
bodies-Three centers in line theorem-Graphical determination of instantaneous centre,
diagrams for simple mechanisms and determination of angular velocity of points and
links.
UNIT-III
STEERING MECHANISMS AND HOOKE’S
JOINT:
Condition for correct steering –Davis steering gear, Ackerman’s steering gear-velocity -
ratio - Single and double Hooke’s Joint- Universal coupling-applications- problems.
STRAIGHT LINE MOTION MECHANISMS:
Exact and approximate-copied and generated types - Peaucellier , Hart and Scott
Russell- Grasshopper- Watt-Tchebicheff and Robert mechanism and straight line
motion, Pantograph.
73
UNIT-IV
CAMS:
Definition of cam and followers-their uses-types of followers and cams-terminology-
types of follower motion-uniform velocity-simple harmonic motion and uniform
acceleration, maximum velocity and acceleration during outward and return strokes in
the above three cases. Overview of polynomial motions, Analysis of motion of
followers: roller follower- circular cam with straight, concave and convex flanks.
UNIT-V
HIGHER PAIRS:
Friction wheels and toothed gears-types-law of gearing, condition for constant velocity
ratio for transmission of motion, forms of teeth- Cycloidal and Involute profiles. Velocity
of sliding-phenomena of interference-methods of interference, condition for minimum
number of teeth to avoid interference, expression for arc of contact and path of contact-
introduction to helical, bevel and worm gearing.………………........... ...
GEAR TRAINS:
Introduction-train value-types-simple and reverted wheel trains – epicyclic gear train,
methods of finding train value or velocity ratio-selection of gear box differential gear for
an automobile.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Theory of Machines by Thomas Bevan
2. Theory of Machines by P. L. Ballaney
3. Theory of Machines by Ratan
REFERENCES:
1. Theory of machines by R. S. Khurmi & J. K. Gupta
2. Theory of machines by R. K. Bansal
3. Theory of machines by Sadhu Singh
4. Theory of machines by Shigley
5. Mechanism and Machine Theory by J. S. Rao and R. V. Dukkipati
74
R12
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech AE II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(AED1101) FLUID MECHANICS & HYDRAULIC MACHINES
UNIT I:
Fluid Statics: Properties of fluid – specific gravity, viscosity, surface tension, vapor
pressure and their influence on fluid motion, Pressure at a point, measurement of
pressure, Forces on immersed surfaces, Center of pressure, Buoyancy, Elements of
stability of floating bodies.
Fluid Kinematics: Classification of flows, acceleration equations, Stream line, path
line and streak lines and stream tube, continuity equation, Stream function, velocity
potential function.
UNIT II:
Fluid Dynamics: Surface and body forces – Euler’s and Bernoulli’s equation,
Venturimeter, Orifice meter, Pitot tube, Reynolds experiment –Darcy Weisbach
equation – Minor losses in pipes – pipes in series and pipes in parallel. Momentum
equation, force on pipe bend.
UNIT III:
Impact of Jets: Hydrodynamic force of jets on flat, inclined and curved vanes - jet
striking centrally and at tip, flow over radial vanes
Elements of hydroelectric power station: Types of power plants, storage
requirements, estimation of power from a given catchment area, head and efficiency.
UNIT IV:
Hydraulic Turbines: Classification of turbines, design of Pelton wheel, Francis turbine
and Kaplan turbine – working proportion, work done, efficiency, draft tube- theory,
functions and efficiency. Geometric similarity, Unit and specific quantities,
characteristic curves, governing of turbines, selection of type of turbine, cavitation,
surge tank and water hammer.
UNIT V:
Hydraulic Pumps: Classification, centrifugal pumps – types, working, work done,
manometric head, losses and efficiency, specific speed – pumps in series and parallel
– performance characteristic curves, NPSH, Reciprocating Pump – types, Working,
Discharge, slip, indicator diagrams.
75
TEXT BOOK:
1. Hydraulics and Fluid Mechanics Including Hydraulics Machines: Dr.
P.N.Modi, Dr. S.M. Seth
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Fluid mechanics V.L.Streeter & E.B.Wylie.
2. Fluid mechanics, fundamentals & applications - Yunus A. Çengel, John M.
Cimbala.
3. Fluid mechanics : F.M.White
76
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech AE II SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(AED1102) APPLIED THERMODYNAMICS
UNIT I
Steam Generators: Introduction, Classification of Boilers, Working Principles of Fire
Tube and Water Tube Boilers, Low Pressure boilers, High Pressure Boilers, Babcock
and Wilcox, Lamont Boiler, Boiler draught and performance of boilers, Equivalent
evaporation.
Steam Condensors: Introduction, purpose and types of condensers, Efficiency of
condenser, Edward Air Pump.
UNIT – II
Steam Nozzles : Functions of nozzle, applications, types, flow through nozzles,
Thermodynamic analysis, assumptions, velocity of nozzle at exit, Ideal and actual
expansion in nozzle, velocity co-efficient, condition for maximum discharge, Critical
pressure ratio.
Steam Turbines: Classification – Impulse turbine, Mechanical details, Velocity
diagram, Effect of friction, Power developed, axial thrust, diagram efficiency, Condition
for maximum efficiency. Methods to reduce rotor speed.
Reaction Turbine: Mechanical details – principle of operation, Thermodynamic
analysis of a stage, Degree of reaction, velocity diagram, parson’s reaction turbine,
condition for maximum efficiency.
UNIT – III
Compressors : Classification – Power producing and power absorbing machines, fan,
Blower and compressor, Roots blower, Vane blower, Sealed compressor, Lysholm
compressor –working principles.
Reciprocating Compressors: Principle of operation, work required, Isothermal
efficiency, volumetric efficiency and effect of clearance, Multi Stage compression,
under cooling, saving of work, minimum work condition for stage compression.
UNIT – IV
Centrifugal Compressors: Mechanical details and principle of operation, velocity and
pressure variation. Energy transfer, Impeller blade shape-losses, slip factor, power
input factor, pressure co-efficient and adiabatic co-efficient, velocity diagrams, power
requirement to run the compressor.
77
Axial flow compressors: Mechanical details and principle of operation, velocity
triangles and energy transfer per stage degree of reaction, work done factor, Isentropic
efficiency, Pressure rise calculations,
Polytrophic efficiency
UNIT – V
Gas Turbines: Classification of Gas Turbine plants, Ideal cycle, essential components,
parameters of performance, actual cycle, regeneration, inter cooling and reheating.
Jet Propulsion and Rockets:
Classification of Jet propulsion engines, Principle of operation, Working principles with
schematic diagram and representation on T- s diagram. Needs and demands met by
Turbo Jet Engines, Rockets, Application, working principle, Classification, Propellant
type.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Thermal Engineering/ Rathod / TMH
2. Gas Turbines / V. Ganesan / TMH
REFERENCES:
1. Thermal Engineering / R.K.Rajput / Laxmi Publications
2. I. C Engines / Mathur & Sharma / Dhanpath Rai & Sons
2. Thermodynamics & Heat Engines / R.Yadav/ Central Book Depot.
3. Thermal Engineering / P L Ballaney / Khanna Publishers
4. Gas Turbines and Propulsive systems / P Khajuria and S P Dubey / Dhanpat
Rai & Sons
78
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B.Tech AE II Sem T T/P/D C
4 0 4
(AED1103) AUTOMOTIVE ENGINES & SYSTEMS
UNIT-I:
INTRODUCTION: Classification and components of an engine, Principle and working
of four stoke and two stroke SI and CI engine. Comparison of theoretical and actual
cycles and their analysis. Multi fuel engine, Sterling cycle engine, Wankel engine,
stratified charge engine and lean burn engine, hybrid electric vehicles.
ENGINE CONSTRUCTION: Cylinder head, cylinder block, crank case, sump, cooling
passages, cylinder liners, piston types, piston rings, connecting rods, crank shafts,
valves, valve seat inserts, valve actuating mechanisms, drive mechanisms.
UNIT-II:
COMBUSTION AND COMBUSTION CHAMBERS: Petrol engines - Ignition limits,
stages of combustion, effect of engine variables, knocking and detonation - theory,
parameters affecting and control, combustion chamber - different types and design.
Diesel engines – Air/Fuel Ratio, stages of combustion, knocking and detonation -
theory, parameters affecting and control, combustion chamber - different types.
FUEL FEED SYSTEMS: Carburetor, Air/Fuel mixture proportions, cold start, idle,
normal running, and acceleration and transfer circuits. Diesel fuel injection pump,
construction and working principles. Governing systems, types of fuel injectors and
nozzles, Introduction to electronic fuel injection system.
UNIT-III
IGNITION SYSTEM: Battery Ignition System, Magneto Ignition System, Electronic
ignition system using contract breakers and triggers.
ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS: Charging Circuit, Generator, current – Voltage regulator,
Starting system, Bendex drive mechanism, Solenoid switch.
UNIT-IV
COOLING AND LUBRICATION SYSTEMS: Engine heat transfer, engine energy
balance, necessity of cooling, air-cooling, water cooling, thermosyphon and pump
cooling, radiator, pump, thermostat, antifreeze solution, radiator fan. Lubrication
Systems – Mist, splash, forced, dry sump and wet sump, oil filters, oil pumps.
SUPERCHARGING AND TURBOCHARGING: Necessity of supercharging,
mechanical supercharging and turbo Charging, compressors and turbines for
supercharging, degree of supercharging, methods of supercharging, efficiency of
supercharged engine.
79
UNIT-V
ENGINE TESTING AND PERFORMANCE: Indicated power , Brake Power , Engine
Torque , Mechanical Efficiency , Air standard Efficiency , Brake thermal efficiency ,
indicated thermal efficiency , relative efficiency , volumetric efficiency , Heat Balance
sheet , Exhaust gas analyzer
ENGINE EMISSION AND CONTROL: Sources of Emissions, unburnt hydrocarbons
(HC) nitrogen oxides (NO ) carbon monoxide (CO) in SI Engines, catalytic converters,
X
un burnt hydrocarbons (HC) nitrogen oxides (NO ) and particulate in CI Engines,
X
Exhaust gas recirculation.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Automobile Engineering / Williams Crouse , TM Hill Publishers
2. Ganesan V, “Internal Combustion Engines”, Tata McGraw Hill, New Delhi.
REFERENCES:
1. Fundamentals of Automotive Engines/ Richard Stone, SAE Publications
2. Obert E F, “Internal Combustion Engine analysis and Practice ", International
Text Book Co. Scranton, Pennsylvania, 1988.
3. John B Heywood, “Internal Combustion Engine Fundamentals”, McGraw Hill
International Editions, 1988.
4. Mathur L and Sharma R P, “Internal Combustion Engines”, Dhanpat Rai
Publications (P), Ltd, 8th edition, New Delhi.
80
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 6 3
(MED1109) MACHINE DRAWING
Machine drawing conventions
Need for drawing conventions – Introduction to IS conventions
a) Conventional representation of materials, common machine elements and parts
such as screws, nuts, bolts, keys, gears, webs and ribs.
b) Types of sections – selection of section planes and drawing of sections and
auxiliary sectional views. Parts not usually sectioned.
c) Methods of dimensioning, general rules for sizes, and placement of dimensions for
holes, centers, and curved and tapered features.
d) Title boxes, their size, location, and other details - common abbreviations and their
liberal usage
e) Types of drawings – working drawings for machine parts.
f) Production drawings
I. Drawing of machine elements and simple parts
Selection of orthogonal views and additional views for the following machine elements
and parts with every drawing proportion.
a) Popular forms of screw threads, bolts, nuts, stud bolts.
b) Keys, cottered joints, and knuckle joint.
c) Riveted joints for plates.
d) Shaft coupling and spigot joint.
e) Journal, pivot, and collar bearings.
II. Part and Assembly drawings
Assembly drawings for the following, using conventions and easy drawing proportions:
a) Engine parts – stuffing boxes, eccentrics, I.C. engine connecting rod and piston
assembly.
b) Other parts - screws jacks, machine vices, and tailstock.
III. Production drawings
a) Overview of limits, fits, ISO system of tolerances, geometrical accuracy, surface
roughness symbols, welding symbols etc.
b) Production drawings of piston assembly and tailstock.
NOTE
1. To adopt first angle of projection.
2. The student should be able to provide working drawings of actual parts.
81
TEXT BOOK:
1. Machine Drawing by K. L. Narayana, P. Kannaiah and K. Venkata Reddy;
Publisher: New Age/ Publishers.
REFERENCES:
1. Machine Drawing by Siddheswar, Kannaiah and Sastry.
2. Machine Drawing by N. D. Bhat.
82
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech AE II sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(AED1201) AUTOMOTIVE ENGINES LAB
List Of Experiments
 Valve Timing Diagram for 4-Stroke Diesel Engine
 Valve Timing Diagram for 4-Stroke Petrol Engine
 Port Timing Diagram for 2- Stroke Petrol Engine
 Performance test on 4- Stroke Single Cylinder Diesel Engine
 Performance Test on 2 – Stroke Petrol Engine
 Heat Balance Test on 4 – Stroke Single Cylinder Diesel Engine
 Optimum cooling temperature test on Single Cylinder Diesel Engine
 Morse Test on Multi Cylinder Petrol Engine
 Performance Test on Computerised Diesel Engine
 Performance Test on Computerised Duel Fuel Engine
 Exhaust Gas Analysis on Computerised Diesel Engine By Flue Gas
Analyser
 Permanence test on reciprocating compressor test rig
83
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(MED1205) FLUID MECHANICS AND HYDRAULIC MACHINES LAB
Any 10 experiments to be conducted from the following:
1. Verification of Bernoulli’s theorem
2. Calibration of Venturimeter - Orifice meter.
3. Calibration of triangles notches.
4. Determination of friction factor for a given pipe line.
5. Determination of Minor losses for the given equipment
6. Impact of jets on vanes.
7. Performance test on Pelton wheel.
8. Performance test on Francis turbine.
9. Performance test on Kaplan turbine.
10. Performance test on single stage centrifugal pump.
11. Performance test on multi stage centrifugal pump.
12. Performance test on reciprocating pump.
84
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech AE II Sem L T/P/D C
2 0 0
(NCC1101) HUMAN VALUES AND PROFESSIONAL ETHICS
Course Description
Objectives
To develop the ability to distinguish between what is of value and what is superficial in
life.
To develop the ability to face difficult situations in life boldly and resolve them
confidently.
To enable students to progress from discrimination to commitment.
To Encourage the students to understand values in life.
Syllabus
1. Self-confidence
2. Peer Pressure-Irregular life style
3. The Power of Self- determination
4. Human relationship—trust and respect- resolving conflict
5. Anger-A sign of helplessness
6. Interaction and ragging
7. Right Utilization of physical facilities
8. Unhappiness -Unfulfilled expectations
9. Setting goals- long term and short term goals-handling
responsibilities
10. Dealing with people while coordinating work
11. Coping with stress-Identifying one’s interests and strengths
12. Time Management-Planning and aligning with one’s goals
13. Skills and Values
14. The role of values in Society
Course Book
The resource material that has been prepared by IIIT can be used apart from material
that is available in the websites. Later text books can be identified for the facility of the
students.
Evaluation
This course would only have a pass/ fail grade. Participation in discussions,
submission of assignments and weekly reports and a final report will be used in
evaluation.
85
Outcome
At the end of the course the students would become sensitive towards human values.
They would understand commitment and responsibility. They would be able to bring
harmony in the society they live.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Mike Martin and Roland Schinzinger, “Ethics in Engineering”, McGraw -Hill,
New York 1996.
2. Govindarajan M, Natarajan S, Senthil Kumar V. S, “Engineering Ethics”,
Prentice Hall of India, New Delhi, 2004
REFERENCES
1. Charles D. Fleddermann, “Engineering Ethics”, Pearson Education / Prentice
Hall, New Jersey, 2004 (Indian Reprint now available).
2. Charles E Harris, Michael S. Protchard and Michael J Rabins, “Engineering
Ethics–Concepts and Cases”, Wadsworth Thompson Leatning, United States,
2000 (Indian Reprint now available)
3. John R Boatright, “Ethics and the Conduct of Business”, Pearson Education,
New Delhi, 2003.
4. Edmund G Seebauer and Robert L Barry, “Fundamentals of Ethics for
Scientists and Engineers”, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2001.
5. Naagarazan, R.S. ‘A Textbook on Professional Ethics and Human Values’
2006.
86
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MTH1104) NUMERICAL ANALYSIS AND LINEAR PROGRAMMING
NUMERICAL ANALYSIS
UNIT-I
Solutions of non-linear systems
Introduction; Mathematical preliminaries; Solution of algebraic and transcendental
equations – the bisection method, the method of false position, the iteration
method,Newton - Raphson method, and their order of convergence.
UNIT II
Interpolation
Introduction; Errors in polynomial interpolation; Finite differences; Forward differences;
Backward differences; Central differences; Symbolic relations and separation of
symbols; Differences of a polynomial; Newton’s formulae for interpolation; Central
difference interpolation formulae; Gauss’s central difference formulae; Lagrange and
Hermite interpolation formulae; Cubic spline interpolation.
UNIT III
Numerical Integration
Trapezoidal rule, Simpson’s 1/3 rule, and Simpson’s 3/8 rule.
Numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations
Solution of initial value problems by Taylor’s series - Picard’s method of successive
approximations, Euler’s method, and Runge - Kutta methods; Predictor Corrector
methods - Adams Moulton method, and Milne’s method.
UNIT IV
Numerical solutions of partial differential equations (PDE)
Introduction; Classification of second order PDE; Approximation of derivatives by finite
difference method; Solution of Laplace equation - Jacobi’s method, Gauss-Seidal
(Leibmann’s) method, Solution of parabolic equations by explicit and crank Nicolson
implicit scheme method; Solution of hyperbolic equations.
LINEAR PROGRAMMING
UNIT V
Linear programming
linear programming - Basic concepts; -problem formulation, graphical method,
canonical and standard forms of LPP simplex method, Artificial variables techniques- M
method, Transportation problems: Balanced transportation problem-North-West corner
rule, Least cost method, Vogel’s approximation method and MODI method.
87
TEXT BOOKS
1. Elementary Numerical Analysis – an algorithmic approach by Samuel D. Conte
and Carl De Boor (2006); 3rd edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Elementary Numerical Analysis by Dr. B.S.Grewal, 4th edition, Publisher:
Khanna Publishers
3. Operations Research: Theory and Applications by Kanthi Swaroop, 4th edition,
Macmillan Publishers India Ltd.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher:
John Wiley and Sons.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher:
Cengage Lear
88
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(MED1115) DYNAMICS OF MACHINERY
UNIT-I
PRECESSION:
Gyroscopes, effect of precessional motion on the stability of moving vehicles such as
motor car, motor cycle, aeroplanes and ships.
STATIC AND DYNAMIC FORCE ANALYSIS OF PLANAR MECHANISMS:
(NEGLECTING FRICTION)
Introduction-free body diagrams-conditions of equilibrium-two and three force
members-Inertia forces and D’Alembert’s principle-planar rotation about a fixed centre.
SYNTHESIS OF LINKAGES:
Three position synthesis- four position synthesis- precision positions-structural error-
Chebyshev’s spacing, Freudenstein’s Equation, problems.
UNIT-II
CLUTCHES:
Friction clutches, Single disc or plate clutch, multiple disc clutch, cone clutch&
centrifugal clutch.
BRAKES AND DYNAMOMETERS:
Simple block brakes, internal expanding brake, band brake of vehicle.
Dynamometers - absorption and transmission types- general description and method of
operation.
UNIT-III
TURNING MOMENT DIAGRAMS AND FLYWHEELS:
TURNING MOMENT:
Inertia torque-angular velocity and acceleration of connecting rod, crank effort and
torque diagrams- Fluctuation of energy-design of flywheels.
GOVERNORS:
Watt, Porter and Proell governors, Spring loaded governors- Hartnell and Hartung with
auxiliary springs, Sensitiveness, isochronism and hunting.
UNIT-IV
BALANCING:
Balancing of rotating masses – single and multiple-single and different planes-
balancing of reciprocating masses-primary and secondary balancing- analytical and
graphical methods.
89
UNBALANCED FORCES AND COUPLES:
Balancing of V, multi cylinder inline and radial engines for primary, secondary
balancing and locomotive balancing.
UNIT-V
VIBRATIONS:
Free vibration of mass attached to a vertical spring - simple problems on forced
damped vibration. Vibration isolation and transmissibility-
Whirling of shafts, critical speeds, torsional vibrations, two and three rotor systems.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Theory of Machines by Thomas Bevan; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Theory of Machines by S. S. Ratan; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Theory of Machines and Mechanisms by P. L. Ballaney; Publisher: Khanna.
2. Mechanism and Machine Theory by J. S. Rao and R. V. Dukkipati; Publisher: New
Age.
3. Kinematics and Dynamics of Machinery by R. L. Norton; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
4. Theory of Machines and Mechanisms by Uicker, Pennock & Shigley; Publisher:
Oxford.
90
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(MED1116) ENGINEERING DESIGN BASICS
UNIT I
ENGINEERING MATERIALS AND DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS
The Design Phase / Methodology, and identification of need, Evaluation and
Presentation, Reliability and Product liability. Mechanical Properties of Engineering
Materials, overall design considerations, Factor safety, Preferred Numbers. Standard
and codes, design data handbook. Load, stress and critical sections in machine parts.
Static strength, plastic deformation, temperature properties, Definition of stress, simple
stress, combined stress, complex stress. Members subjected to axial, bending, torsion
and shear loading, impact stresses.
UNIT II
DESIGN AGAINST FLUCTUATING LOAD
Stress concentration, stress concentration factors, Reduction stress concentration,
fluctuating stresses. Fatigue strength, Endurance Limit, fatigue test, S-N diagrams for
different structural materials. Low cycle and high cycle fatigue, Notch sensitivity,
Design for finite and infinite life. Soderberg and Goodman lines the fatigue strength,
modified Goodman theory, soderberg theory, Gerber theory
UNIT III
DESIGN OF FASTENERS
Temporary Fasteners (Bolted and Screwed Fasteners)
Bolted joints, bolted joint under initial loading, eccentrically loaded Bolted Joints under
different static load conditions.
Permanent Fasteners (Riveted and Welded Fasteners)
Riveted Joints, eccentrically loaded Riveted Joints, Design of Boiler Riveted joints, and
Welding symbols, butt and fillet welds, stress in the welded joints carries tension
bending and shear loading, Design of various types of Welding joints and eccentrically
loaded welded joints under different static load conditions.
UNIT IV
DESIGN OF FLEXIBLE MECHANICAL ELEMENTS
Belt Drives:
Introduction, classification of belts, belt materials, design of flat (rectangular) belts, ratio
of belt tensions, V-Belts, power transmitted through V-Belt, design of V-Belts and
timing belts.
91
Springs:
Classification of springs, spring material, Design of helical, leaf, disc and tensional
springs under constant loads and varying loads.
UNIT V
DESIGN OF SHAFTS AND KEYS
Transmission shafts, Design of solid and hollow shafts based on strength, rigidity and
Flexible shafts, shaft and axles – key and classification of keys, stresses in the keys,
design considerations, effect of key way on the shaft strength.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Design of Machine Elements by Bhandari; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Mechanical Engineering Design by Shigley J. E and Mischke C. R; Publisher: Tata
McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering design by George E Dieter; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Machine Design - An Integrated Approach by Robert L.Norton; Publisher: Addison
Wesley.
3. Fundamentals of Machine Component Design by Juvinall R. C and Marshek K. M;
Publisher: John Wiley and Sons
92
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(MED1122) HEAT AND MASS TRANSFER
UNIT-I
INTRODUCTION:
Modes and mechanisms of heat transfer - Basic laws of heat transfer - Simple general
discussion about applications of heat transfer. Conduction Heat Transfer: Fourier heat
conduction equation - General heat conduction equation in Cartesian, Cylindrical and
Spherical coordinates - simplification and forms of the field equation steady, unsteady
and periodic heat transfer - Initial and boundary conditions.
UNIT-II
ONE DIMENSIONAL STEADY STATE CONDUCTION HEAT TRANSFER:
Homogeneous slabs, hollow cylinders and sphere - overall heat transfer coefficient -
electrical analogy - Critical radius of insulation - variable Thermal conductivity -
systems with heat sources or Heat generation - extended surfaces and fins. One
Dimensional Transient Conduction Heat Transfer: Systems with negligible internal
resistance - chart solutions of transient conduction systems.
UNIT-III
CONVECTIVE HEAT TRANSFER:
Classification of systems based on causation of flow, condition of flow, configuration of
flow and medium of flow - Dimensional analysis as a tool for experimental investigation
- Concepts about hydrodynamic and thermal boundary layers - Buckingham Pi-
Theorem and method, application for developing Semi - empirical non-dimensional
correlation for convection heat transfer - Significance of non -dimensional numbers -
use of empirical correlations for convective heat transfer- Forced Convection: Flat
plates and horizontal pipes. Free Convection: Vertical plates and pipes.
UNIT-IV
HEAT TRANSFER WITH PHASE CHANGE:
Heat transfer with boiling - pool boiling and film boiling - boiling curve for pool boiling -
simple correlations for pool boiling - Condensation plates heat transfer: film wise and
drop wise condensation - film condensation on vertical and horizontal cylinders using
empirical correlations.
RADIATION HEAT TRANSFER:
Emission characteristics and laws of black-body radiation - incident radiation - total and
monochromatic quantities -laws of Planck, Wien, Kirchoff, Lambert, Stefan and
Boltzmann - heat exchange between two black bodies -concepts of shape factor -
93
emissivity - heat exchange between grey bodies - radiation shields - electrical analogy
for radiation net works.
UNIT V
HEAT EXCHANGERS:
Classification of heat exchangers - overall and fouling resistance - problems using
LMTD and NTU methods.
INTRODUCTION TO MASS TRANSFER:
Analogy between heat, mass and momentum transfer - classification: Diffusion and
convective mass transfer processes - Examples - Fick's Law of diffusion simple
problems for steady state molecular diffusion - Convection mass transfer coefficient -
non-dimensional numbers of mass transfer analogous to convection heat transfer
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Fundamentals of Engineering Heat and Mass Transfer by R.C. Sachdeva;
Publisher: New Age International.
2. Heat and Mass Transfer Data book by C.P. Kothandaraman; Publisher: New Age.
REFERENCES:
1. Heat Transfer by OZSIK
2. Heat Transfer by HOLMAN
3. Heat Transfer by Sukhatme; Publisher: University Press.
4. Heat and Mass Transfer by D. S. Kumar
5. Fundamentals of Heat & Mass Transfer by Incopera & Dewitt
94
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(MED1114) PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY
UNIT – I
CASTING:
Steps involved in making a casting; Advantage of casting and its applications; Pattern
and core making; Types of patterns – Materials used for patterns; Pattern allowances
and their construction; Principles of Gating, Gating ratio and design of gating systems.
Solidification of casting; Concept; Solidification of pure metal and alloys; Risers; Types;
Function and design; Casting design considerations; Quality testing and inspection of
castings; Special casting processes; Centrifugal, Die, Investment casting; Melting
furnaces.
UNIT – II
WELDING:
Classification of welding process types of welds and welded joints and their
characteristics, design of welded joints, Gas welding, ARC welding, Forge welding,
resistance welding, Thermit welding and Plasma welding
Inert Gas welding, TIG & MIG, welding, Friction stir welding, Induction welding,
Explosive welding, Laser welding, Soldering & Brazing. Heat affected zones in welding;
welding defects – causes and remedies – destructive nondestructive testing of welds.
UNIT –III
MECHANICAL WORKING -1:
Hot working; Cold working; Strain hardening; Recovery; Recrystallisation and grain
growth; Comparison of properties of cold and hot worked parts
ROLLING:
Rolling fundamentals; Theory of rolling; Types of Rolling mills and products; Forces in
rolling and power requirements.
EXTRUSION:
Basic extrusion process and its characteristics; Hot extrusion and Cold extrusion;
Forward extrusion and backward extrusion – Impact extrusion; Hydrostatic extrusion;
Extrusion defects.
FORGING PROCESSES:
Principles of forging; Tools and dies; Types of Forging; Smith forging; Drop Forging;
Roll forging; Forging hammers; Rotary forging; Forging defects.
95
UNIT – IV
MECHANICAL WORKING -2:
Stamping, forming and other cold working processes : Blanking and piercing; Bending
and forming; Drawing and its types; Wire drawing and Tube drawing; Coining; Hot and
cold spinning; Types of presses and press tools; Forces and power requirement in the
above operations.
UNIT – V
PLASTIC MATERIALS AND PROCESS:
Types of plastics; Compression moulding; Injection moulding; Blow moulding; Film and
Sheet forming; Thermoforming.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Manufacturing Technology by P.N. Rao
REFERENCES:
1. Production Technology by R.K. Jain
2. Manufacturing Engineering and Technology by Kalpak Jian S
3. Process and Materials of Manufacturing by Lindberg/PE
4. Principles of Metal Castings by Rosenthal.
5. Welding Process by Parmar
6. Production Technology by Sharma P C
96
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(AED1104) REFRIGERATION AND AUTO AIR CONDITIONING
Unit –I:
Vapour compressors refrigeration - working principle, refrigeration cycle in T-s and
P-h coordinates, Effect of sub cooling & super heating and cycle analysis.
Air Refrigeration: Applications – Air Craft Refrigeration -Simple, Bootstrap,
Regenerative systems.
Vehicle cooling, load estimation, capacity requirements of Air Conditioning System,
refrigerants used in Automobiles – properties.
Unit – II:
Vapor absorption system –aqua – ammonia system, Lithium – Bromide system.
Steam Jet refrigeration system: Representation on T-S and H-S diagrams –
limitations and applications.
Unconventional Refrigeration system – Thermo-electric – Vortex tube & Pulse tube
– working principles.
UNIT - III
Introduction to Air Conditioning – Psychrometric properties and processes, sensible
and latent heat loads, characterization and SHF load for ventilation and filtration,
concepts of RSHF& SHF ESHF and ADP, concepts of human comfort and effective
temperature.
Components of Air conditioners: Air-conditioning Components: Compressor-
Evaporator-Condenser- Expansion valve-Receiver Drier- Filters-Mufflers -special
features-compressor protection Anti freezing relay.
UNIT – I V
Operation of an Air-conditioning System: Type of Air conditioners. Heaters-Vehicle
ventilation-combination heater and air conditioner-manually controlled air conditioner
and heater system- automatically controlled air conditioner and heater systems.
Air Heating equipment: Ducts, Registers and Grills, blowers, filters
UNIT - V
Trouble Shooting and Services: Servicing of heating Systems, Causes of air
conditioner Failure, leak testing guide, Discharging the system- Evacuating the system-
charging the System-trouble shooting air conditioner heater Systems.
Servicing of Air Conditioners- Heating Systems: Air conditioner maintenance and
service. Compressor trouble shooting and service, clutch service- shaft seal leakage
compressor. Seal removal checking oil level-oil addition, repairs on compressors.
97
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Refrigeration & Air Conditioning – C.P. Aurora-TMH
2. Refrigeration & Air Conditioning – Aurora & Domkundwar – Dhanpat Rai
3. Automotive Air Conditioning –William .H.Crouse & Donald L.Angtin.-MH
REFERENCE BOOKS :
1) Refrigeration and Air Conditioning : Manohar Prasad
2) Refrigeration and Air Conditioning : Stoecker – Mc Graw Hill
3) Refrigeration and Air Conditioning : Dossat – Mc Graw Hill
4) Refrigeration and Air Conditioning : Domkundwar – Dhanpatrai
98
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(MED1204) PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY LAB
Minimum 12 exercises to be performed from the following:
1. METAL CASTING:
 Pattern Design and making - for one casting drawing.
 Sand properties testing - Exercise -for strengths, and permeability – 1
 Moulding Melting and Casting - 1 Exercise
2. WELDING:
 Arc Welding Lap and Butt Joint - 2 Exercises
 Spot Welding - 1 Exercise
 TIG Welding - 1 Exercise
 MIG Welding - 1 Exercise
 Plasma welding and Brazing - 2 Exercises
3. MECHANICAL PRESS WORKING:
 Blanking and Piercing operation and study of simple, compound and
progressive press tool.
 Hydraulic Press: Deep drawing and extrusion operation.
 Bending and other operations
4. PROCESSING OF PLASTICS:
 Injection Moulding
 Blow Moulding
99
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(AED1202) HEAT TRANSFER & RAC LAB
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
1. Thermal Conductivity of given Metal Rod
2. Stefan Boltzmann Apparatus.
3. Critical Heat Flux Apparatus
4. Composite Wall Overall Heat Transfer Co-Efficient.
5. Heat Transfer through Lagged Pipe.
6. Heat Transfer in Forced Convection Apparatus.
7. Heat Transfer in Natural Convection
8. Thermal Conductivity of Insulation Powder.
9. Parallel and Counter Flow Heat Exchanger.
10. Emissivity Apparatus.
11. Study of Heat Pipe and its Demonstration.
12. Heat Transfer in pin-fin
13. Heat Transfer in Drop and Film Wise Condensation
14. Performance test on Air conditioning Test Rig
15. Performance test on Refrigeration test rig
100
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech ME/AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(CED1105) ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
UNIT-I
Introduction, Definition, scope and importance, Ecosystems: Introduction, types,
characteristic features, structure and functions of ecosystems. Bio geo chemical cycle,
Classification of Eco system.
UNIT-II
Natural Resources :classification of Resources, Land resources, Land as resource,
Common property resources, Land degradation, Soil erosion and desertification,
Effects of modern agriculture, fertilizer –pesticide problems, Forest resources, Use and
over-exploitation.
Mining and dams – their effects on forest and tribal people, Water resources, Use and
over- utilization of surface and groundwater, Floods, droughts, Water logging and
salinity, Dams –benefits and costs, Conflicts over Water. Energy resources, Energy
resources.
UNIT III
Bio-diversity and its conservation, Value of bio-diversity -consumptive and productive
use, social, ethical, aesthetic and option values, Bio-geographical classification of India
– India as a mega diversity habitat, Threats to bio-diversity –Hot-spots, habitat loss,
poaching of wild life, loss of species, seeds, etc. Conservation of bio-diversity – Insitu
and Ex-situ conservation.
UNIT IV
Environmental Pollution –Local and Global Issues,Nature of thermal pollution and
nuclear hazards, Global warming, Acid rain,Ozone depletion., Environmental case
studies:.
UNIT-V
Environmental Problems in India,Drinking water, sanitation and public health,Effects of
the activities on the quality of environment, Water scarcity and groundwater
depletion,Controversies on major dams – resettlement and rehabilitation of people:
problems and concerns,Rain water harvesting, cloud seeding and watershed
management. Economy and Environment,The economy and environment
interaction,Economics of development, preservation and conservation, Sustainability:
theory and practices,Limits to growth,Equitable use of resources for sustainable life
styles, Environmental Impact Assessment.
101
TEXT BOOKS
1. Environmental studies-A.Y.Anjaneyulu
2. Environmental studies-Deeksha dave
3. Environmental sciences and management-Venugopal
102
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech AE II sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(AED1105) AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING DESIGN
UNIT – I
BEARINGS:
Types of Journal bearings – Lubrication – Bearing Modulus – Full and partial bearings
– Clearance ratio – Heat dissipation of bearings, bearing materials – journal bearing
design – Ball and roller bearings – Static loading of ball and roller bearings, Bearing
life, Bearing selection.
UNIT – II
ENGINE PARTS:
Pistons, Forces acting on piston – Construction, design and proportions of piston,
Cylinder, Cylinder liners.
CONNECTING ROD:
Thrust in connecting rod – stress due to whipping action on connecting rod ends –
Cranks and Crank shafts, strength and proportions of over hung & Overview of Center
cranks; Crank pins, Crank shafts.
DESIGN OF VEHICLE GEAR BOX:
3 Speed Gear box, 4 speed gear box, Steering Gear mechanism Design.
UNIT – III
DESIGN OF CURVED BEAMS:
Introduction, stresses in curved beams, Expression for radius of neutral axis for
rectangular, circular, trapezoidal and T-Section. Design of crane hooks, C –clamps.
POWER TRANSMISSIONS SYSTEMS, PULLEYS:
Transmission of power by Belt and Rope drives, Transmission efficiencies, Belts – Flat
and V types – Ropes - pulleys for belt and
rope drives, Materials, Chain drives.
UNIT – VI
SPUR AND HELICAL GEAR DRIVES:
Spur gears- Helical gears – Load concentration factor – Dynamic load factor. Surface
compressive strength – Bending strength – Design analysis of spur gears – Estimation
of centre distance, module and face width, check for plastic deformation. Check for
dynamic and wear considerations.
103
UNIT – V
DESIGN OF BEVEL GEAR DRIVES:
Bevel gears – Load concentration factor – Dynamic load factor. Surface compressive
strength- Bending strength – Design analysis of Bevel gears- Estimation of centre
distance, module and face width, check for plastic deformation, Check for dynamic and
wear considerations.
DESIGN OF WORM GEAR DRIVES:
Worm gears – Properties of worm gears – Selection of materials – Strength and wear
rating of worm gears – Force analysis – Friction in worm gears – thermal
considerations.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Machine Design by V. Bhandari; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Machine Design by R. L. Norton
REFERENCES:
1. Mechanics of Materials (SI Units) by Beer & Johnson; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Data Books: P.S.G. College of Technology
3. Mechanical Engineering Design by J. E. Shigley
4. Machine Design by R. S. Khurmi & J. S. Gupta; Publisher: Sultan Chand.
5. Machine Design (SI Units) by Schaums Outline Series; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
104
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech AE II SEM L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(AED1106) MACHINE TOOLS AND METROLOGY
Unit-I
Elementary treatment of metal cutting theory -Elements of cutting process –
Classification of cutting tools –Principle angles of single point tools –Orthogonal and
oblique cutting –Chip thickness ratio –Velocity relationships in orthogonal cutting –
Force relationship in orthogonal cutting (Merchant force circle) -cutting speeds, feed,
depth of cut, tool life, coolants, machinability –Stress and strain in the chip -Tool
materials.
Engine lathe -Principle of working, specification of lathe - types of lathe –Lathe
specifications and sizes – Parts of lathe - work holders tool holders –Turning –Lathe
attachments. Turret and capstan lathes - Principal features of automatic lathes -
classification - Single spindle and multi-spindle automatic lathes.
UNIT-II
Milling machine - Principles of working - specifications and size - classification of
milling machines - Principal features of universal milling machine - Milling Cutters
Shaping, slotting and planning machines - Principles of working - Principal parts –
specification and size – classifications
Drilling and Boring Machines - Principles of working, specifications and size, types,
operations performed
UNIT-III
Grinding machine -Fundamentals -Theory of grinding - classification of grinding
machine - cylindrical and surface grinding machine - Tool and cutter grinding machine -
special types of grinding machines - Different types of abrasives -bonds specification of
a grinding wheel and selection of a grinding wheel.
Over view on Lapping, honing and broaching machines - comparison to grinding.
Systems of limits and fits: Introduction, normal size, tolerance limits, deviations,
allowance, fits and their types -unilateral and bilateral tolerance system, hole and shaft
basis systems - Interchangeability and selective assembly
UNIT-IV
Indian standard Institution system - British standard system, International Standard
system for plain and screwed work.
LIMIT GAUGES: Taylors principle – Design of go and No go gauges, plug, ring, snap,
gap, taper, profile and position gauges.
105
OPTICAL MEASURING INSTRUMENTS: Tool maker’s microscope and its uses –
collimators, optical projector.
UNIT-V
SURFACE ROUGHNESS MEASUREMENT: Differences between surface roughness
and surface waviness-Numerical assessment of surface finish – CLA, Ra, R.M.S
Values – Rz Values, Methods of measurement of surface finish - profilograph.
SCREW THREAD MEASUREMENT: Element of measurement – errors in screw
threads – measurement of effective diameter, angle of thread andthreadpitch.GEAR
MEASUREMENT: Gear measuring instruments, Gear tooth profile measurement.
Measurement of diameter, pitch pressure angle and tooth thickness.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Production Technology by R.K. Jain and S.C. Gupta.
2. Engineering Metrology / R.K. Jain / Khanna Publishers
3. Manufacturing engineering and Technology- Kalpakjian, Wesley.
REFERENCEBOOKS:
1. Manufacturing Technology (Volume 2) Metal Cutting and Machine Tools, P N
Rao, Tata McGraw Hill
2. Elements of workshop Technology Vol. II, Hajara Chowdhary, Indian Book
Distributors, Calcutta
3. Production Technology by H.M.T. (Hindustan Machine Tools)
4. Engineering Metrology / Mahajan
5. Precision Engineering in Manufacturing / RL Murthy / New Age
106
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech AE II SEM L T/P/D C
4 1 4
( AED1107) VEHICLE DYNAMICS
Unit-I
Tire and Rim Fundamentals: Tires and Sidewall Information, Tire components, Radial
and Non-Radial Tires, Tread, Wheel and Rim, Vehicle Classifications
Tire Dynamics: Tire Coordinate Frame and Tire force system, tite Stiffness, tire print
forces, effective radius, rolling resistance, Longitudinal, Lateral, Gamber, Tire Forces.
Unit-II
One-Dimensional Vehicle Dynamics: Parked Car on a Level and an Inclined Road,
Accelerating car on a Level and an inclined Road, Parked car on a Banked Road,
Optimal Drive and Brake Force Distribution, Vehicles With More Than Two Axles.
Driveline Dynamics: Engine Dynamics, Driveline and Efficiency, Gearbox and Clutch
Dynamics, Gearbox Design.
Unit-III
VEHICLE DYNAMICS: Applied Dynamics: Force and Moment, Rigid Body
Translational and Rotational Dynamics, Mass Moment of Inertia Matrix, Lagrange’s
Form of Newton’s Equations of Motion, Lagrangian Mechanics
Vehicle Planar Dynamics: Vehicle Coordinate Frame, Rigid Vehicle Newton-Euler
Dynamics, Force System Acting on a Rigid Vehicle, Two-wheel Rigid Vehicle
Dynamics, Steady-State Turning
Unit-IV
Vehicle Roll Dynamics: Vehicle Coordinate and DOF, Equations of Motion, Vehicle
Force System, Two wheel Rigid Vehicle Dynamics, Steady state motion, Time
Response
Unit-V
Applied Vibrations: Mechanical Vibration Elements, Newton’s Method and Vibrations,
Frequency Response of Vibrating Systems, Time Response of Vibrating Systems
Vehicle Vibrations: Lagrange Method and Dissipation Function, Natural Frequencies
and Mode Shapes, Bicycle Car and Body Pitch Mode, Half Car and Body Roll Mode,
Full Car Vibrating Model natural frequencies using sweeping matrix and orthogonality
principle, Holzer's method for systems with free, fixed free and fixed ends.
107
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Vehicle Dynamics Theory and Application by Reza N. Jazar, Springer Int.
Edition.
2. Mechanical Vibration -By G.K.Grover, Nernchand& Brothers
REFERENCES:
1. Vehicle Refinment Controlling Noise and Vibration in Road Vehicle By.
Matthew Harrison Elsevier, Distributed by Yes Dee Publishing Pvt. Ltd.
2. Theory & Problems of Mechanical Vibration -By William W. Seto, McGrawHil1
3. Problems in Automobile Mechanics-By N. K. Giri, Khanna Pub.
4. Mechanics of Pneumatic Tyre -By S. K. Clark, Prentice Hall
5. Mechanical Vibration Analysis -By P Srinivasan, TMH
6. Mechanical Vibration -By Church. Wife International
7. Vibration Theory & Applications -By William I Thomson, Prentice Hall.
108
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(EIE1128) INSTRUMENTATION AND CONTROL SYSTEMS
UNIT I
Definition – Basic principles of measurement – Measurement systems, static
characteristics.
MEASUREMENT OF DISPLACEMENT:
Theory and construction of various transducers to measure displacement-Piezo
electric, Inductive, capacitance, resistance, ionization and Photo electric transducers.
MEASUREMENT OF SPEED:
Mechanical Tachometers – Electrical tachometers – Stroboscope, Noncontact type of
tachometer.
MEASUREMENT OF ACCELERATION AND VIBRATION:
Different simple instruments – Principles of Seismic instruments – Vibrometer and
accelerometer using this principle.
UNIT II
STRESS STRAIN MEASUREMENTS:
Various types of stress and strain measurements – electrical strain gauge – gauge
factor – method of usage of resistance strain gauge for bending compressive and
tensile strains – usage for measuring torque, Strain gauge Rosettes.
MEASUREMENT OF HUMIDITY:
Moisture content of gases, Sling psychrometer, Absorption psychrometer, Dew point
meter.
MEASUREMENT OF FORCE, TORQUE AND POWER:
Elastic force meters, load cells, Torsion meters, Dynamometers.
UNIT III
MEASUREMENT OF TEMPERATURE: Classification – Ranges – Various Principles
of measurement– Expansion, Electrical Resistance – Thermistor – Thermocouple –
Pyrometers – Temperature Indicators.
MEASUREMENT OF PRESSURE: Units – classification – different principles used.
Manometers, Piston, Bourdon pressure gauges, Bellows – Diaphragm gauges. Low
pressure measurement – Thermal conductivity gauges – ionization pressure gauges,
Mcleod pressure gauge.
MEASUREMENT OF LEVEL: Direct method – Indirect methods – capacitative,
ultrasonic, magnetic, cryogenic fuel level indicators – Bubler level indicators.
109
FLOW MEASUREMENT: Rotameter, magnetic, Ultrasonic, Turbine flow meter, Hot –
wire anemometer, Laser Doppler Anemometer (LDA).
UNIT IV
INTRODUCTION TO CONTROL SYSTEMS:
Introduction - basic components of a control system, control-system applications, open-
loop control systems (without feed-back systems), and closed-loop control systems
(with feedback systems); Example of open loop and closed loop systems. Feedback
and its effects - effect of feedback on overall gain, effect of feedback on stability, and
effect of feedback on external disturbance or noise; Classification of systems, nonlinear
characteristics of systems.
UNIT V
SYSTEM MODELING:
Transfer function (TF) Block diagram (BD) reduction techniques, Signal flow
graph(SFG), BD to TF, TF to BD, TF to SFG, SFG to TF conversions, Mathematical
Modeling of systems in translational and rotational motions, Analogy between different
types of systems like electrical, mechanical, pneumatic & hydraulic, DC motor transfer
function, signal flow graph, Working of Potentiometer, tachometer, servo motors,
synchros.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Measurement Systems: Applications & design by D. S. Kumar.
2. Mechanical Measurements by Beckwith, Marangoni & Linehard; Publisher:
Prentice Hall International/Pearson Education
REFERENCES:
1. Measurement systems: Application and Design, Doeblin Earnest. O.
Adaptation by Manik and Dhanesh; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill
2. Instrumentation and Control systems by S. Bhaskar; Publisher: Anuradha
Agencies.
3. Experimental Methods for Engineers by Holman.
4. Mechanical and Industrial Measurements by R.K. Jain; Publisher: Khanna
5. Instrumentation & Mechanical Measurements by A.K. Tayal; Publisher:
Galgotia
6. Instrumentation, Measurement & Analysis by B. C. Nakra & K. K. Choudhary,
Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill
7. Mechanical Measurements by Sahani
110
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MED 1149) OPERATIONS RESEARCH
UNIT-I
INTRODUCTION:
Origin, Development-Definition-Characteristics and Phases-Types of OR models-
applications, limitations.
ALLOCATION:
Linear Programming Problem Formulation- Graphical solution-Simplex method-Artificial
variables technique-Two phase method, Big-M Method-Duality Principle.
UNIT-II
TRANSPORTATION PROBLEM:
Formulation-Optimal solution-unbalanced transportation problem-Degeneracy.
Assignment problem-Formulation-Optimal solution-Variations of Assignment Problem-
Travelling Salesman Problem.
Sequencing: Introduction-Flow Shop sequencing-n jobs through two machines-n jobs
through three machines-Job shop sequencing-two jobs through m machines.
UNIT-III
REPLACEMENT:
Introduction-Replacement of items that deteriorate with time-when money value is not
counted and counted-Replacement of items that fail completely, group replacement.
THEORY OF GAMES:
Introduction-Minimax (maximin) - criterion and optimal strategy-Solution of games with
saddle points-Rectangular games without saddle points-principles of dominance-
m*2and 2*n games-graphical method.
UNIT-IV
WAITING LINES:
Introduction-Single channel-Poisson arrivals-exponential service times-with infinite
population and finite population models-Multichannel-Poisson arrivals-exponential
service times with infinite population single channel Poisson arrivals.
INVENTORY:
Introduction-Single item-Deterministic models-Purchase inventory models with one
price break and multiple price breaks-shortages not allowed-Stochastic models-
demand may be discrete variable or continuous variable-Instantaneous production,
Instantaneous demand and continuous demand and no set up cost-single period
model.
111
UNIT-V
DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING:
Introduction-Terminology-Bellman’s Principle of optimality- Applications of dynamic
programming- shortest path problem-linear programming problem.
SIMULATION:
Definition-Types of simulation models-phases of simulation-applications of simulation-
Inventory and Queuing problems-Advantages and Disadvantages-Brief Introduction of
Simulation Languages.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Operations Research by J.K.Sharma; Publisher: Mac Milan.
2. Operations Research by R. Pannerselvam; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
REFERENCES:
1. Operations Research by A. M. Natarajan, P.Balasubramani, A.Tamilarasi;
Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Operations Research: Methods and Problems by Maurice Saseini, Arthur Yaspan
and Lawrence Friedman
3. Introduction to OR by Taha; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
4. Operations Research by Wagner; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
5. Operations Research by S.D.Sharma-Kedarnath
6. O.R Wayne L. Winston by Thomson; Publisher: Brooks/Cole
7. Introduction to O.R by Hiller and Liebermann; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
112
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(MED1206) MACHINE TOOLS AND METROLOGY LAB
MACHINE TOOLS: Any Six experiments
1. Introduction of general purpose machines - Lathe, Drilling machine, Milling
machine, Shaper, Planing machine, slotting machine, Cylindrical Grinder,
Surface grinder and Tool and cutter grinder.
2. Exercise on Facing, turning, step turning and taper turning on lathe machine
3. Exercise on Grooving, Thread cutting and knurling on lathe machine.
4. Exercise on Drilling, Boring, Counter boring, Counter sinking and Tapping
operations on drilling machine
5. Exercise on Shaping to prepare plain surfaces
6. Exercise on Slotting to prepare contour surfaces
7. Exercise on Milling to perform plain /gear cutting
8. Exercise on Cylindrical Surface Grinding
9. Exercise on Grinding of Tool angles.
Demonstration on
Different methods of Taper Turning, Boring, Collar turning, use of four jaw chuck on
lathe, Cutting of V - block on shape, Key way cutting on shaper/milling
METROLOGY: Any Six experiments
1. Measurement of lengths, heights, diameters by vernier calipers micrometers
etc.
2. Measurement of bores by internal micrometers and dial bore indicators.
3. Use of gear teeth, Vernier calipers and checking the chordal addendum and
chordal height of spur gear.
4. Machine tool alignment test on a lathe.
5. Machine tool alignment test on a milling machine.
6. Tool makers microscope and its application
7. Angle and taper measurements by bevel protractor, sine bars, etc.
8. Use of spirit level in finding the flatness of surface plate.
9. Thread measurement by two wire/ three wire method or tool makers’
microscope.
10. Surface roughness measurement by TalySurf.
11. Surface wear resistances test using electro spark coating device.
113
REFERENCES:
1. Workshop Technology by W.A.J. Chapman (Parts I, II, and III); Publisher: Viva
Books.
2. The Principles of Metallographic Laboratory Practice by George L. Kehl;
Publisher: McGraw Hill.
R
1
2
114
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ENG1204) ADVANCED ENGLISH COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
(Common to all Branches)
Introduction
This course aims to offer students a practical approach to Technical Writing, and
provide a relevant, contemporary and authoritative introduction to the dynamic field of
technical communication that prepares them for Workplace Communication. Each unit
in the syllabus is devised so as to include a writing component as well as an oral
component.
The objectives of this course are to
i) expose students to workplace writing
ii) initiate them into the Process of Technical Communication
iii) enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content
iv) enable students to produce documents reflecting different types of technical
communication such as Abstracts, Proposals and Technical Reports through
ample practice
v) enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific
target audience
vi) groom students in behavioral skills
Methodology
Written Communication Component
A Process- Genre methodology will be used in teaching the technical genres. This
method would enable students to understand the use of particular lexico-grammatical
patterns required of in the context of technical writing. They would learn to use
language to express the particular communicative intent that is required of in the
context of writing these genres.
Objectives of Writing Component
i) enable students to write clearly and succintly
ii) equip students with the ability to write technical genres
Oral Communication Component
The objective of including Oral Communication is to impart behavioral skills and
prepare students to speak to a large group or team, keeping in mind the audience,
context and purpose of communication. This Oral Communication component must
enable students to speak in an organized and mature way, without any inhibitions.
They will be groomed to relate their speech to their audience.
115
Objectives of Oral Communication Component
i) equip students with Behavioral skills
ii) prepare them for Oral presentations, and Group Discussions
iii) equip them with Interview skills
Syllabus Outline
Unit I
Writing Skills 1
1. Applications and Covering letters
2. Resume Writing
3. Verbal Ability
4. Oral Communication :Talking About Yourself
Unit II
1. Writing an SOP
2. Summarizing and Synthesizing Information
3. Oral Communication: Making Presentations
Unit III
1. Writing Project Proposals
2. Oral Communication: Group Discussions
Unit IV
1. Writing Project Reports
2. Oral Communication: Interview Skills
Unit V.
Behavioral Skills and Personality Development
1. Building a positive attitude, building a positive personality, Motivation, goal
setting & values &
vision
2. Problem Solving and Decision Making; Negotiation Skills through Role Play
3. Team Building and Leadership Abilities
4. Social Etiquette
REQUIRED TEXT AND MATERIALS
1. Ashraf Rizvi, M (2005). Effective Technical Communication, Tata Mc Graw
Hill Publishing Company Limited, New Delhi.
2. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical
Communication: A Reader-Centered Approach ( 5th ed..) (pp. 457-473).
Boston: Heinle.
3. William S. Pfeiffer, (2010) Technical Communication: A Practical Approach
(7th ed.). Prentice Hall
116
References
1. Burnett, Rebecca. Technical Communication. 5th Ed., Heinle, 2001
2. Bolter, Jay David. ( 2001). The late age of print. In Robert P. Yagelski's
(Ed.) Literacies and
Technologies: A Reader for Contemporary Writers (135-145). New York:
Longman.
3. Brandt, Deborah. (1998). Sponsors of literacy. College Composition and
Communication 49.2, 165-185.
4. Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson : Technical Writing Process and
Product. 3rd edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
5. Johnson-Sheehan, Richard. (2007). Starting Your Career. In Richard
Johnson-Sheehan's Technical Communication Today (2nd ed.) (pp. 388-
402). New York: Longman.
6. Markel, Mike. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies (8th
EDITION (2006-2007)
7. R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan, Business Correspondence and Report Writing,
Third Edition, TMH, 2002. (Indian Edition)
8. M. Raman and S. Sharma, Technical Communication : Principles and
Practices, OUP, 2004. (Indian Edition)
117
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech AE II Sem L T/P/D C
2 0 0
(NCC1102) Soft Skills and Personality Development
Introduction
In an era of Technological advances and competition in the job market, it is necessary
for students to possess soft skills and effective personal skills in addition to technical
skills. It is essential that students possess the ability to convey technical ideas in a
sound and simple manner. Planning and execution are the two important activities
required for them. It is the execution that requires the soft skills as it most of the times
deals with people. This course on “Soft Skills and Personality Development” is aimed
at enhancing students’ career prospects.
This course uncovers the principles of soft skills and personality skills, the ways to
integrate them in different phases of career that require personal and interpersonal
skills. It focuses on transforming the way of one’s thinking and reacting to the
environment. It equips the students with self analysis and gain self- control through
stress management and conflict management. It also helps students with study skills. It
helps students overcome their barriers and achieve excellence in performance and
succeed in their chosen field of work.
Objectives
enable students to convert the conceptual understanding of communication into
everyday
practice
train students to ground concepts/ideas in their own experience
enable students to exercise control over language use
sensitise students to the nuances of the four basic communication skills – Listening,
Speaking,
Reading and Writing
enable students to understand the concept and components of personality, so as to
apply the
acquired knowledge and march towards excellence in their academic careers.
train students to become aware of their thinking styles and to enable them to convert
thinking
into performance
prepare students to evolve mental models for intra-personal and inter-personal
transactions
make students reflect and improve their use of body language – posture, gesture, facial
expression, tone
118
sharpen memory skills and other study skills, which are vital for academic excellence.
bring outthe creativity and latent talents of students through goal setting
train students for positive thinking to keep them in good stead at the time of crisis.
SYLLABUS
Unit I: Introduction to Personality Development
1. Definition and Basics of personality
 Determinants of Personality- biological, psychological and socio-
cultural factors
 Need for personality Development
2. Analyzing strengths and Weaknesses
3. Corporate theories on Personality development
4. Increasing vocabulary
5. Body Language
6. Preparation of Self Introduction
7. Motivation
 Self-analysis through SWOT
 Techniques and strategies for self-motivation
Unit II : Techniques in Personality Development Stage I
1. Communication Skills
2. Listening
3. Communication Barriers
4. Overcoming these Barriers
5. Importance of Self Esteem -- Building Self-esteem& Self Confidence
6. Working on attitudes – aggressive, assertive and submissive
7. Goal Setting
8. Leadership and Team Building Skills
9. Group Discussion
Unit III: Techniques in Personality Development Stage II
1. Interpersonal relationships
 Analysis of ego states, Transactions, Strokes and Life Positions
2. Stress Management
 Concept, Nature and Dimensions of Stress
 Causes, Impact and Managing Stress
 Relaxation Techniques
3. The Power of positive thinking
 Nurturing creativity, decision-making and problem solving
 Goals and techniques for positive thinking
 Enhancement of concentration through positive thinking
4. Projecting a Positive Social Image
 Grooming & Social Etiquette
 Voice Modulation
119
 Public Speaking
Unit IV: Techniques in Personality Development Stage III
 Conflict Management
 Introduction to Conflict Management
 Levels of Conflict
 Managing Conflict
 Time Management
 Concept
 Importance and Need
 Steps towards better Time Management
Unit V:Memory and Study Skills
 Definition and importance of memory
 Causes of forgetting
 How to forget (thought stopping), how to remember (techniques for
improving memory)
 The technique of passing exams-Management of examination fear.
PRACTICAL TRAINING
The course would include the following practical exercises.
 Ice- breaking. Brainstorming and simulation exercises. Thought
stopping. Memory and study skills training
 Role play and record work
REFERENCES
1. Mile, D.J (2004). Power of positive thinking. Delhi: Rohan Book
Company.
2. Pravesh Kumar (2005). All about self- Motivation. New Delhi:
Goodwill Publishing House.
3. Dudley, G.A. (2004). Double your learning power. Delhi: Konark
Press. Thomas Publishing Group Ltd.
4. Lorayne, H. (2004). How to develop a super power memory. Delhi:
Konark Press. Thomas Publishing Group Ltd.
5. Hurlock, E.B (2006). Personality Development, 28th Reprint. New
Delhi: Tata Mc Graw Hill.
6. Windshuttle, Keith and Elizabeth Elliot.1999. Writing, Researching
and Communicating: Communication Skills for the Information Age.
3rd Reprint. Tata McGraw-Hill. Australia
7. Dignen, Flinders and Sweeney. English 365. Cambridge University
Press
8. Goleman, Daniel. 1998. Working with Emotional Intelligence.
Bantam Books. New York
120
9. Jones, Leo and Richard Alexander. 2003. New International
Business English. Cambridge University Press
10. Lucas, Stephen.2001. Art of Public Speaking. Mc-Graw Hill.
11. Tamblyn, Doni and Sharyn Weiss. 2000. The Big Book OF
Humorous Training Games. 2004 Edition. Tata McGraw-Hill. New
Delhi
12. Personality Development by Rajiv K. Mishra. Rupa & Co.
13. Powell. In Company. Macmillan
14. Cotton, et al. Market Leader. Longman
15. Pease, Allan. 1998. Body Language: How to Read Others Thoughts
by their Gestures. Sudha Publications. New Delhi
16. Gardner, Howard. 1993. Multiple Intelligences: The Theory in
Practice: A Reader. Basic Books. New York
17. De Bono, Edward. 2000. Six Thinking Hats. 2nd Edition. Penguin
Books.
18. De Bono, Edward. 1993. Serious Creativity. Reprint. Harper
Business.
19. Mohan, Krishna and Meera Bannerji, 2001, Developing
Communication Skills. Macmillan.
20. V. Syamala, 2002. Effective English Communication for you.
Emerald Publishers, Chennai.
121
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(EEE1155) AUTOMOTIVE ELECTRICAL AND AUTOTRONICS
UNIT I
STORAGE BATTERY: Principles of lead acid cells and their characteristics.
construction and working of lead acid battery. types of batteries-Nickel Cadmium
Battery, Sodium Sulphur Battery, Nickel Metal battery, Hybrid battery, Aluminum Air,
Battery Various tests on batteries, effect of temperature on capacity and voltage,
battery capacity, voltage, efficiency, charging techniques of batteries, sulphation and
desulphation, maintenance and servicing.
CHARGING SYSTEM : Principle of generation of direct current Principle, construction
and working of alternator, Wiring diagram of charging system, Cut out relay, Voltage
and current regulators for DC generators, Voltage regulator for alternator,
Maintenance, servicing and trouble shooting.
UNIT II
IGNITION SYSTEM: Conventional ignition system and study of its components. Types
of ignition systems spark advance and retarding mechanisms. Types of spark plugs,
ignition timing, maintenance, servicing and fault diagnosis. Electronic ignition systems,
programmed ignition, distributor-less ignition.
STARTER MOTOR: Construction and working of series and shunt automotive starter
motor, wiring diagram of a starting system; Types of switches, starting drive
mechanisms- bendix drive, folo-thru drive, overrunning clutch drive mechanism with
solenoid switch; starter motor troubles and repairs.
Electronic fuel injection system, components of fuel injection systems, multipoint
injection. Electronic control of gasoline fuel injection system, electronic control diesel
fuel injection.
UNIT III
WIRING FOR AUTO ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS: Automotive cables, cable connectors,
wiring harness, fuses, insulated return and earth return systems, Earth return and
insulated return systems, positive and negative earth systems, wiring diagram for a
luxury car electrical system and lighting system, maintenance and servicing.
DASH BOARD UNITS AND ELECTRICAL ACCESSORIES: Principle of automobile
illumination, head lamp construction and wiring, horn, wind screen wiper signaling
devices, fog lamps, auxiliary lighting , temperature gauge, oil pressure gauge, fuel
gauge, speedometer, odometer.
122
UNIT IV
NUMBER SYSTEM CODES AND DATA REPRESENTATION : Binary numbers,
number base conversion, decimal, octal and hexa-decimal numbers, BCD codes,
memory representation of positive and negative integers, conversion of real numbers.
floating point notations and representations of floating point numbers, binary
arithmetics, addition and subtraction of binary numbers, ones and two’s complement
method.,
UNIT V
LOGIC GATES, ARITHMETIC CIRCUITS AND INTRODUCTION TO
MICROPROCESSORS : Study of basic and universal logic gates, study of X-OR and
X-NOR gates. Latches, S-R flip flop, J-K flip flop, counters- 4 bit synchronous counters
and 4 bit Asynchronous counters, shift registers – Right shift register and left shift
register, half adders and subtractors.
TEXTBOOKS
1. Automotive Electrical Equipments by young, A.P and Griffith, S.L, ELBS and
New press
2. Digital Logic and Computer Design by Mano, Prentice Hall of India
3. Automotive Electrical Equipment, By P.L. Kohli, TMH
REFERENCES
1. Automobile Electrical Equipment By Crouse.W.H, McGraw Hill Book Co inc,
New York,2005.
2. Basic automotive electrical systems, By C.P.Nakra, Dhanpat Rai.
3. Modem Electrical Equipments, By A. W. Judge, chapman & Hall, Londan
2004.
123
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(MED1128) CAD/CAM
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION:
Computers in Industrial Manufacturing, Product cycle, CAD and CAM, Overview of
CAD / CAM Hardware, Display devices, Hard copy devices.
COMPUTER GRAPHICS:
Raster scan graphics, Coordinate systems, Database structure for graphics modeling,
Transformation of geometry, 3D Transformations, Mathematics of projections, Clipping,
Hidden surface removal.
UNIT II
GEOMETRIC MODELING:
Geometric models, Geometric construction methods, Curve representation, Surface
representation methods, Modeling facilities desired.
DRAFTING AND MODELING SYSTEMS:
Basic geometric commands, Layers, Display control commands, Editing,
Dimensioning, Solid modeling.
UNIT III
COMPUTER NUMERICAL CONTROL:
Introduction to NC machines and CNC machines, Structure of CNC machine tools,
Features of Machining center and Turning center, Concept of ATC & APC, Feedback
control
CNC PART PROGRAMMING:
Fundamentals, Manual part programming methods, Computer Aided Part
Programming, Introduction to G & M codes.
GROUP TECHNOLOGY:
Philosophy of Group Technology, Part families, Methods of Parts Classification and
Coding, Advantages and Limitations.
UNIT IV
COMPUTER AIDED PROCESSES PLANNING:
Introduction, Retrieval type and Generative type, Benefits
COMPUTER AIDED QUALITY CONTROL:
Introduction, Terminology in quality control, The computer in QC, Contact inspection
methods, Noncontact inspection methods-optical and nonoptical, Computer aided
testing, Integration of CAQC with CAD/CAM.
124
UNIT V
COMPUTER INTEGRATED MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS:
Introduction, Types of Manufacturing systems, Machine tools and related equipment,
Material handling systems, Computer Control Systems, Human labor in the
manufacturing systems, CIMS benefits.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. CAD / CAM by A. Zimmers and P. Groover; Publisher: Prentice Hall
International/Pearson Education
2. CAD/CAM Principles and Applications by P N Rao; Publisher: Tata McGraw
Hill
3. CAD / CAM Theory and Practice by Ibrahim Zeid; Publisher: Tata McGraw
Hill
REFERENCES:
1. Automation, Production Systems and Computer integrated Manufacturing by
Groover; Publisher: Pearson Education
2. CAD / CAM / CIM by Radhakrishnan and Subramanian; Publisher: Pearson
Education
3. Principles of Computer Aided Design and Manufacturing by Farid Amirouche;
Publisher: Pearson Education
4. CAD/CAM: Concepts and Applications by Alavala; Publisher: Prentice Hall
International
5. Computer Numerical Control Concepts and programming by Warren S
Seames; Publisher: Thomson
125
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(CED1147) DISASTER MANAGEMENT
UNIT-I
INTRODUCTION TO DISASTER:
Concepts and definitions (Disaster, Hazard, Vulnerability, Resilience, Risks)
UNIT-II
DISASTERS:
Classifications, Causes, Impacts (including social, economic, political, environment,
health, psychosocial, etc.)
Differential impacts-in terms of caste, class, gender, age, location, disability Global
trends in disasters. Urban disaster, pandemics, complex emergencies, Climate change
UNIT-III
APPROACHES TO DISASTER RISK REDUCTION:
Disaster cycle-its analysis, phase, Culture of safety, prevention, mitigation and
preparedness, community based DRR, Structural measures, roles and responsibilities
of community. Panchayati Raj Institutions/Urban Local Bodies (PRIs/ULBs), states,
center and other stake-holders.
UNIT-IV
INTER-RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN DISASTER AND DEVELOPMENT:
Factors affecting Vulnerabilities, differential impacts, impact of development projects
such as dams, embankments, change in land-use etc. Climate change Adaption.
Relevance of indigenous knowledge, appropriate technology and local resources.
UNIT-V
DISASTER RISK MANAGEMENT IN INDIA:
Hazard and vulnerability profile of India Components of Disaster relief: Water, food,
sanitation, shelter, health, waste management
Institutional arrangements (Mitigation, Response and Preparedness, DM Act Policy,
Other related polices, plan, programmes and legislation)
PROJECT WORK :( FIELD WORK, CASE STUDIES)
The project/fieldwork is meant for students to understand vulnerabilities and to work on
reducing disaster risks and to build a culture of safety. Projects must be conceived
creatively based on the geographic location and hazard.
126
Suggested Reading list:
1. Alexander David, Introduction in ‘Confronting Catastrophe’, oxford University
press, 2000
2. Andharia J. Vulnerability in disaster Discourse, JTCDM, Tata Institute of Social
Sciences working paper no.8, 2008
3. Blaikie, P, Cannon T, Davis I, Wisner B 1997. At Risk Natural Hazards,
Peoples’ Vulnerability and Disaster, Rutledge.
4. Coppola P Damon, 2007. Introduction to International Disaster Management.
5. Carter, Nick 1991.Disaster Management: A Disaster Manager’s Handbook.
Asian Development Bank, Manila Philippines.
6. Cuny,F.1983. Development and Disasters, Oxford University Press
7. Govt.of India; Disaster Management Act 2005,Government of India, New Delhi.
127
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(CSE1121) CYBER SECURITY
UNIT I.
INTRODUCTION: Introduction and Overview of Cyber Crime, Nature and Scope of
Cyber Crime, Types of Cyber Crime: Social Engineering, Categories of Cyber Crime,
Property Cyber Crime. CYBER CRIME ISSUES: Unauthorized Access to Computers,
Computer Intrusions, White collar Crimes, Viruses and Malicious Code, Internet
Hacking and Cracking, Virus Attacks, Pornography, Software Piracy, Intellectual
Property, Mail Bombs, Exploitation ,Stalking and Obscenity in Internet, Digital laws and
legislation, Law Enforcement Roles and Responses. Security Policy Design, Designing
Security Procedures, Risk Assessment Techniques, Security standards, Biba Model,
Chinese wall, Bell La Pedula Model.
UNIT II:
SERVICE DELIVERY PROCESS- Service Delivery Process, Service Level
Management, Financial Management, Service Management, Capacity Management,
Availability Management.
SERVICE SUPPORT PROCESS- Service Support Process, Configuration
Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management,
Release Management.
UNIT III:
STORAGE MANAGEMENT- Backup & Storage, Archive & Retrieve, Disaster
Recovery, Space Management, Database & Application Protection, Bare Machine
Recovery, Data Retention
SECURITY MANAGEMENT- Security, Computer and internet Security, Physical
Security,Identity Management, Access Management. Intrusion Detection, Security
Information Management.
UNIT IV:
Cyber Forensics- Introduction to Digital Forensics, Forensic Software and Hardware,
Analysis and Advanced Tools, Forensic Technology and Practices, Forensic Ballistics
and Photography, Face, Iris and Fingerprint Recognition, Audio Video Analysis,
Windows System Forensics, Linux System Forensics, Network Forensics Evaluation of
crime scene and evidence collection ,Usage of tools for disk imaging and recovery
processes.
128
UNIT V
Introduction to Information Security Standards , Laws and Acts: Laws and Ethics,
Digital Evidence Controls, Evidence Handling Procedures, Basics of Indian Evidence
ACT IPC and CrPC , Electronic Communication Privacy ACT, Legal Policies,ISO
27001,PCI DSS,IT Act, Copy Right Act.
Textbooks:
1. Nelson Phillips and Enfinger Steuart, “Computer Forensics and Investigations”,
Cengage Learning, New Delhi, 2009.
2. "Management of Information Security", M. E. Whitman, H. J. Mattord, Nelson
Education / CENGAGE Learning, 2011, 3rd Edition.
3. "Guide to Computer Forensics and Investigations", B. Nelson, A. Phillips, F.
Enfinger, C. Steuart, Nelson Education / CENGAGE Learning, 2010, 4th
Edition.
4. Goel Ritendra, Computer Application in Management, New Age International
Publishers, New Delhi.
5. Chowdhury G.G., Text Retrieval Systems in information Management, New
Age International Publishers, New Delhi.
129
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(ITD1116) COMPUTER FORENSICS
UNIT I
COMPUTER FORENSICS FUNDAMENTALS:
What is Computer Forensics, Use of Computer Forensics in Law Enforcement,
Computer Forensics in Law Enforcement, Computer Forensics Assistance to Human
Resources/Employment Proceedings, Computer Forensics Services, Benefits of
professional Forensics Methodology, Steps taken by computer Forensics Specialists.
TYPES OF COMPUTER FORENSICS TECHNOLOGY:
Types of Military Computer Forensics Technology, Types of Law Enforcement -
Computer Forensic Technology - Types of Business Computer Forensics Technology.
COMPUTER FORENSICS EVIDENCE AND CAPTURE:
Data Recovery Defined- Data Back-up and Recovery- The Role of Back-up in Data
Recovery- The Data Recovery Solution.
UNIT II
EVIDENCE COLLECTION AND DATA SEIZURE:
Why Collection Evidence? Collection Options – Obstacles – Types of Evidence – The
Rules of Evidence- Volatile Evidence- General Procedure – Collection and Archiving –
Methods of Collection – Artifacts – Collection Steps – Controlling Contamination: The
chain of Custody.
DUPLICATION AND PRESERVATION OF DIGITAL EVIDENCE:
Preserving the Digital Crime Scene – Computer Evidence Processing Steps – Legal
Aspects of Collecting Preserving Computer Forensics Evidence. Computer Image
Verification and Authentication: Special Needs of Evidential Authentication – Practical
Consideration – Practical Implementation.
UNIT III
COMPUTER FORENSICS ANALYSIS AND VALIDATION:
Determining what data to collect and analyze, validating forensic data, addressing data
– hiding techniques, performing remote acquisitions.
NETWORK FORENSICS:
Network Forensics overview, performing live acquisitions, developing standard
procedures for network forensics, using network tools, examining the honeynet project.
130
UNIT IV
PROCESSING CRIME AND INCIDENT SCENES:
Identifying digital evidence, collecting evidence in private-sector incident scenes,
processing law enforcement crime scenes, preparing for a search, securing a computer
incident or crime scene, seizing digital evidence at the scene, storing digital evidence,
obtaining a digital hash, reviewing a case.
CURRENT COMPUTER FORENSIC TOOLS:
Evaluating computer forensic tool needs, computer forensics software tools, computer
forensics hardware tools, validating and testing forensics software.
UNIT V
E-MAIL INVESTIGATIONS:
Exploring the role of E-mail in investigation, exploring the role of the client and server in
E-mail, investigating e-mail crimes and violations, understanding e-mail servers, using
specialized e-mail forensic tools.
CELL PHONE AND MOBILE DEVICE FORENSICS:
Understanding mobile device forensics, understanding acquisition procedures for cell
phones and mobile devices.
WORKING WITH WINDOWS AND DOS SYSTEMS:
Understanding file systems, exploring Microsoft File Structures, Examining NTFS
Disks, Understanding whole disk encryption, windows registry, Microsoft startup tasks,
MS-DOS Startup tasks, virtual machines.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Computer forensics, computer crime investigation by John R.Vacca, Firewall
Media, New Delhi.
2. Computer forensics and investigations by Nelson, Phillips Enfinger Steuart,
CENGAGE Learning.
REFERENCES:
1. Real Digital Forensics by Keith J.Jones, Rechard Bejtlich, Curtis W.Rose,
Addison-Wesley Pearson Education.
2. Forensic compiling, A Tractitioneris Guide by Tony Sammes and Brain Jenkinson,
Springer International Edition.
3. Computer Evidence Collection & Presentation by Christopher L.T.Brown, Firewall
Media.
4. Homeland Security, Techniques & Technologies by Jesus Mena, Firewall Media
5. Software forensics Collecting Evidence from the scene of a digital crime by Robert
M.Slade, TMH 2005.
6. Windows forensics by Chad Steel, Wiley India Edition.
131
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(ITD1105) OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING THROUGH JAVA
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO JAVA
Introduction: Creation of Java, Java buzzwords, OOP Principles, Encapsulation,
Inheritance and Polymorphism, Classes and Objects: Creating and usage objects,
introducing methods, constructors, usage of static with data and methods, usage of
final with data, access control, this key word, garbage collection, overloading methods
and constructors, parameter passing, recursion, nested classes and inner classes,
String Handling
UNIT-II
INHERITANCE, PACKAGES AND INTERFACES
Basic concepts, member access rules, usage of super key word, forms of inheritance,
method overriding, abstract classes, dynamic method dispatch, using final with
inheritance, the Object class.
Defining, Creating and Accessing a Package, Understanding CLASSPATH, importing
packages, differences between classes and interfaces, defining an interface,
implementing interface, applying interfaces, variables in interface and extending
interfaces.
UNIT-III
EXCEPTION HANDLING AND MULTITHREADING
Concepts of Exception handling, types of exceptions, usage of try, catch, throw, throws
and finally keywords, Built-in exceptions, creating own exception sub classes,
Concepts of Multithreading, differences between process and thread, thread life cycle,
creating multiple threads using Thread class, Runnable interface, Synchronization,
thread priorities, inter thread communication, daemon threads, deadlocks, thread
groups.
UNIT-IV
EVENT HANDLING, AWT CONTROLS
Events, Event sources, Event classes, Event Listeners, Delegation event model,
handling mouse and keyboard events, Adapter classes.
AWT : Concepts of components, container, panel, window, frame, canvas, Font class,
Color class and Graphics, AWT Controls.
Applets - Concepts of Applets, differences between applets and applications, life cycle
of an applet, types of applets, creating applets, passing parameters to applets.
132
2
UNIT-V
NETWORKING, JAVA LIBRARY, JDBC
Networking: Inet address, TCP/IP sockets, Datagrams, URL, URL connection, String
handling, java. util, java.io and java.net packages.
JDBC: Different type of Drivers, Connection establishment, Retrieving and
manipulation data from client and storing in data base.
Java Library: explore io, util, net, lang, sql, awt packages.
Introduction to Java APIs: what is API, discuss APIs in Java SS, Java EE, Java ME
TEXT BOOKS:
1. The Complete Reference Java J2SE 5th Edition, Herbert Schildt, TMH
Publishing Company Ltd, NewDelhi.
2. Big Java 2nd Edition, Cay Horstmann, John Wiley and Sons.
REFERENCES:
1. Java How to Program, Sixth Edition, H.M.Dietel and P.J.Dietel, Pearson
Education/PHI
2. Core Java 2, Vol. 1, Fundamentals, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell,
Seventh Edition, Pearson Education.
3. Core Java 2, Vol. 2, Advanced Features, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell,
Seventh Edition, Pearson Education.
4. Beginning in Java 2, Iver Horton, Wrox Publications.
5. Java, Somasundaram, Jaico.
6. Java Networking and AWT API Super Bible, Natraj Nagaratnam, Brian
Masco, Arvind Srinivasan, White Group Press
133
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(ITD1126) GREEN IT
UNIT I
TRENDS AND REASONS TO GO GREEN:
Overview and Issues, Problems, Cost savings, Current Initiatives and standards,
Global Initiatives
UNIT II
CONSUMPTION ISSUES
Minimizing Power Issues, Cooling, Changing the way we work, Going Paper less,
Recycling, Hardware Considerations,
UNIT III
THE GREENING PROCESS
Data Center Design and Redesign, Greening your Information Systems, Staying Green
UNIT IV
VIRTUALIZATION
Virtual Server Implementation Plan, Desktop Virtualization, Benefits, Desktop access,
Virtual Printing,
UNIT V
DATA REPLICATION AND DISK TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENTS
Data Replication Methods, Disk Technology Advancements, The Green data Center,
Cloud Computing, Remote Monitoring
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Green IT-Reduce your information system’s Environmental Impact while
adding to the bottom line Toby J Velte, Anthony T Velte, Robert Elsenpeter –
McGraw Hill Publications, 2008
2. Foundation Of Green It, Consolidation, Virtualization, Efficiency, and Roi in
The Data Center, Marty Poniatowski- Prentice Hall Publications
REFERENCES:
1. Green Computing and Green IT Best Practices on Regulations and Industry
Initiatives, Virtualization, Power Management, Materials Recycling and
Telecommuting By Jason Harris.
2. Green IT for Sustainable Business Practice- Mark G. O’ Neil, BCS The
chartered institute for IT
3. The Greening of IT: How Companies Can Make a Difference for the
Environment, John P. Lamb, Kindle Edition, IBM Press 2009
134
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 1 3
(MED1129) ROBOTICS
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Automation & Robotics, An overview of Robotics, Classification by Coordinate Systems
and control systems.
Components of the Industrial Robotics: Degrees of freedom, End effectors –
Mechanical gripper, Magnetic, Vacuum cup and other types of grippers, General
consideration on gripper selection and design.
Motion Analysis: Basic rotation matrices, Composite rotation matrices, Euler angles,
Equivalent angle and axis, Homogeneous transformation, Problems.
UNIT II
KINEMATICS AND DYNAMICS
Manipulator Kinematics: D-H notations, Joint coordinates and world coordinates,
Forward and Inverse kinematics, Problems.
Differential Kinematics: Differential kinematics of planar and spherical manipulators,
Jacobians, Problems.
Robot Dynamics: Lagrange-Euler formulations, Newton-Euler formulations, Problems
on planar two link manipulators.
UNIT III
TRAJECTORY PLANNING
Joint space scheme, Cubic polynomial fit, Avoidance of obstacles, Types of motions:
Skew motion, Joint interpolated motion, Straight line motion, Problems.
UNIT IV
ROBOT ACTUATORS AND FEEDBACK COMPONENTS
Actuators – Pneumatic, Hydraulic and Electric actuators, DC Servo motors, Stepper
motors.
Feedback components – Position sensors, Potentiometers, Resolvers and Encoders,
Velocity sensors, Tactile sensors.
UNIT V
ROBOT APPLICATION IN MANUFACTURING
Material Handling and transfer, Welding, Assembly, Inspection, Future applications
135
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Industrial Robotics by M. P. Groover; Publisher: Pearson Education
2. Introduction to Robotic Mechanics and Control, by J. J. Craig, Publisher: Pearson
Education
REFERENCES:
1. Robot Dynamics and Control by M.W.Sponge and M.Vidyasagar; Publisher: John
Wiley.
2. Robotics by K.S.Fu; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
3. Robotic Engineering by Richard Klafter, Publisher: Prentice Hall
4. Robot Analysis and Intelligence by Asada & Slotine, Publisher: Wiley Interscience
5. Robotics & Control by Mittal R. K. & Nagrath I. J., Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill
136
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE– I Sem L T/P/D C 3 1 3
(ELECTIVE II) 3 1 3
(AED1108) AUTOMOTIVE CHASSIS AND SUSPENSION
UNIT-I
Introduction to Chassis System:
Introduction: Requirements of an automobile with types of automobiles, layout of an
automobile with reference to power plant, power required for propulsion, various
resistances to motion of the automobile.
Frames: Types of frames, materials, calculation of stresses on sections, constructional
details, loading points, testing of frames. Wheels and tyres: Types of wheels,
construction. structure and function of tyres, static and function of tyres.
UNIT-II
Steering systems: Types of steering gears, front axle, under steer and over steer,
wheel alignment, power steering, steering geometry, wheel balancing, centre point
steering, steerability.
Brakes: Necessity of brake, stopping distance and time, brake efficiency, weight
transfer, brake shoe theory, determination of braking torque, braking
systems,mechanical, hydraulic, disc, parking and emergency brakes, servo and
electrical brakes, details of hydraulic system, mechanical system and components.
types of master cylinders, factors influencing operation of brakes such as operating
temperature, lining, brake clearance, pedal pressure, linkages etc.
UNTI-Ill
Suspension: Types of suspension, leaf springs, materials, independent suspension,
torsion bar, air bellows or pneumatic, suspension, hydraulic suspension, constructional
details of telescopic shock absorbers, types, vibrations and riding comfort, role axis of
spring suspension. Front Wheel Mounting, Rear Wheel Mounting, Engine mounting,
Various types of springs used in suspension system. Requirements and various types,
Material.
UNIT-IV
Testing: Testing procedures, types of tests and chassis components, equipment for
lab and road tests, preparation of test reports.
UNIT-V
Two and Three wheelers: Classification of two and three wheelers, construction
details, construction details of frames and forks, suspension systems and shock
absorbers, different arrangement of cylinders. Carburetion system and operation.
137
TEXTBOOK:
1. Automotive chassis and body, P. L. Kohli, TMH
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Introduction to automobile engineering, N.R. Khatawate. Khanna publications
2. Automotive mechanics, Joseph I heitner. Affiliated East West Press
3. Problems in Automobile Engineering, N.K.Giri, Khanna Publications
4. Automotive Chassis, P.M. Heldt, Chilton & Co.
5. Automobile Engineering, T.R. Banga & Nathu Singh, Khanna publications
138
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 1 3
(MED1132) PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE MANAGEMENT
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO PLM:
Need for PLM, opportunities and benefits of PLM, different views of PLM, components
of PLM, phases of PLM, PLM feasibility study, PLM visioning.
PLM STRATEGIES:
Industrial strategies, strategy elements, its identification, selection and implementation,
change management for PLM.
UNIT II
PRODUCT DATA MANAGEMENT (PDM):
PDM systems and importance, reason for implementing a PDM system, financial
justification of PDM, barriers to PDM implementation.
PRODUCT DESIGN:
Engineering design, organization and decomposition in product design, product design
process, methodical evolution in product design, concurrent engineering, design for 'X'
and design central development model. Strategies for recovery at end of life, recycling,
human factors in product design. Modeling and simulation in product design.
UNIT III
NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT:
Structuring new product development, building decision support system, Estimating
market opportunities for new product, new product financial control, implementing new
product development, market entry decision, launching and tracking new product
program, Concept of redesign of product.
UNIT IV
TECHNOLOGY FORECASTING:
Future mapping, invocating rates of technological change, methods of technology
forecasting such as relevance trees, morphological methods and mission flow diagram,
combining forecast of different technologies, uses in manufacture alternative.
UNIT V
PRODUCT CONCEPTION PROCESS:
Business processes, data-process relationship, from the idea to waste disposal
Product structures: Variant management, product configuration, material master data,
product description data, Data models, Life cycles of individual items, status of items.
139
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Fabio Giudice, Guido La Rosa, Product Design for the environment-A life cycle
approach, Taylor and Francis 2006.
2. Robert J. Thomas, NPD: Managing and forecasting for strategic processes.
3. Martins Joseph, Technological Forecasting for decision Making, 2nd edition, North
Holland.
REFERENCES:
1. John Stark, Springer-Verlag, ”Product Lifecycle Management Paradigm for 21st
century Product Realization”, London, 3rd printing (2006). 441 pp., ISBN: 1-
85233-810-5.
2. Product Lifecycle Management, Michael Grieves, Tata McGraw Hill
140
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 1 3
(MED1130) COMPOSITE MATERIALS
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION:
Introduction to Composite Materials: Introduction, definition of composite materials,
Classification of composites: Polymer Matrix Composites, Metal Matrix Composites,
Ceramic Matrix Composites, Carbon-Carbon Composites, Fiber reinforced Composites
and Nature made composites, and applications
UNIT II
REINFORCEMENTS:
Introduction, Classification of reinforcements, Flexibility, Fibers: Glass-Fabrication,
structure, properties and applications, Boron-Fabrication, structure and morphology,
properties and its applications, Carbon preparation, processing, properties and
applications, Preparation, properties and applications of: Organic fibers–Polyethylene,
Aramid, Ceramic, Non oxide-Silicon carbide, Whiskers
UNIT III
MATRIX MATERIALS:
Introduction, Polymers matrix materials-Thermoplastics and Thermosets, copolymers,
molecular weight, degree of crystallinity, stress strain behavior Common thermoset
matrix materials- epoxy, polyster, polyimides common thermoplastic matrix materials-
polyphenylene sulfide, polyaryl sulfone, Metal matrix materials- structure, properties of
metals, common metals applied as matrix metals, Ceramix matrix materials-types,
properties.
Interfaces-wettability, effect of surface roughness, crystallographic nature of interface,
Types of bonding at the interface-mechanical, physical, Chemical bonding.
Tests for measuring interfacial strength-Flexural tests, three point bending, four point
bending, short beam shear test, iosipescu shear test, Single fiber pullout test, curved
neck specimen test, instrumented indentation test, fragmentation test., Laser spallation
technique.
UNIT IV
MANUFACTURING METHODS:
Polymer matrix composites(PMC)-Processing of thermoset matrix composites, Handy
Lay –Up and Spray Techniques, Filament winding, pultrusion, resin transfer molding,
Tape-Laying and fiber placement systems, Autoclave –based methods, Thermoplastic
141
matrix composites-Film stacking, Diaphraming, Thermoplastic Tape laying, Injection
Moulding, sheet moulding compound (SMC)
Types of Metal Matrix composites, processing-liquid state process, solid state process,
In situ process, properties and applications.
Ceramic matrix composites(CMC)-processing OF CMC, Cold pressing and sintering,
Hot pressing, Reaction bonding process, Liquid infiltration, Lanxide process, In Situ
chemical Reactions Techniques-chemical vapour deposition and chemical vapour
impregnation, sol-gel and polymer pyrolysis, Properties and applications of CMC,
Carbon Fiber composites-processing, properties and its applications.
UNIT V
MICROMECHANICS OF COMPOSITES:
Introduction, Density, Volume, and Mass fractions, void contents, Mechanical
Properties: Prediction of elastic constants,
Halpin-Tsai Equations, Thermal properties: Thermal expansion coefficients of
composites, thermal conductivity of composites, Hygral and Thermal stress
MACROMECHANICS OF COMPOSITES:
Introduction, elastic constants of an isotropic material, elastic constants of a Lamina,
Relationships between engineering constants and reduced stiffness and compliances,
Fracture modes in composites: single and multiple fracture, debonding, fiber pullout,
delamination, fracture, fatigue and creep properties of composites, Design with
composites: Advantages of composites in structural design, Fundamental
characteristics of composites.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Composite Materials Science and Engineering by Krishan K. Chawla;
Publisher: Springer
2. Engineering Mechanics of Composite Materials by Isaac and M. Daniel;
Publisher: Oxford University Press, 1994
REFERENCES:
1. Mechanics of Composites Material by R. M. Jones, Publisher: McGraw Hill
2. Mechanics of Composite materials and Structures by Madhuji Mukhopadyaya
Publisher: University Press
3. Analysis and performance of Fiber Composites by B. D. Agarwal, L. J.
Broutman, and K. Chandrasekhara; Publisher: John Wiley.
142
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 1 3
(MED1135) SURFACE MODIFICATION TECHNIQUES
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO SURFACE ENGINEERING:
Differences between surface and bulk, Properties of surfaces-wear, corrosion, optical,
roughness, electrical and thermal properties, wetability. Surface protection (physical),
surface modification (chemical) techniques: classification, principles, methods, and
technology.
UNIT II
CONCEPTS OF COATING:
Coatings- Concepts of coatings , Electroplating and electroless plating -Metallic and
non metallic coatings- chemical vapour deposition, physical vapour deposition,
Galvanizing – Thermal Spray, types of thermal spray and their advantages and
disadvantages - conventional verses nanocoatings.
UNIT III
PLASMA COATING TECHNOLOGY:
Process parameters, thermal and kinetic history of inflight particle, micro structural
features of plasma sprayed coatings, single splat studies, process-structure property
relationship challenges in preparation, plasma spraying of nanopowders - its
microstructure – properties–Liquid precurser plasma spray- applications.
UNIT IV
CHARACTERIZATION OF COATINGS:
Coatings –thickness-porosity-hardness, fracture toughness-elastic modulus –adhesion
bending strength-fracture strength- tensile strength- wear and corrosion measurement
phase analysis
UNIT V
HARD AND SOFT COATINGS:
Laser cladding- laser alloying, Electron beam hardening-ion beam implantation- sol –
gel coatings –electrophoretic deposition –DLC and diamond coatings, antifriction and
antiscratch coatings.
SPUTTERING TECHNIQUES:
Methods, applications, plasma treatments, nitriding–carbonising – boriding, titanizing
methods, applications.
143
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Surface Engineering of Metals, Principles, equipments and Technologies-
Tadeusz Burakowski, Padeusg and Weirzxhon, CRC press, 1998
2. Surface coatings for protection against wear edited by BG Miller, Woodhead
publishing - 2006
REFERENCES:
1. Surface coatings ASM handbook
2. Characterization Techniques ASM Handbook
3. P. Fauchais, A. Vardelle, and B. Dussoubs, "Quo Vadis Thermal Spraying?
"Journal of Thermal Spray Technology, Volume 10(1) March2001
4. H. Herman and S. Sampath "Thermal Spray Coatings" Published in 1996 by
Chapman and Hall, London. Edited by Kurt H Sien.
144
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE I Sem T T/P/D C
Elective II 3 1 3
(AED1109)GAS DYNAMICS
UNIT I:
Introduction: Compressibility, Temperature Rise, Mach Angle, Thermodynamics of
Fluid Flow, Thermal and Caloric Properties, The Perfect Gas, Wave Propagation:
Velocity of Sound, Subsonic and Supersonic Flows.
UNIT II:
Steady One-Dimensional Flow: Introduction, The Fundamental Equations,
Discharge from a Reservoir, Stream tube Area-Velocity Relation, De Laval Nozzle,
Supersonic Flow Generation, Diffusers, Dynamic Head Measurement in Compressible
Flow, Pressure Coefficient.
UNIT III:
Normal Shock Waves: Introduction, Equations of Motion for a Normal Shock Wave,
The Normal Shock Relations for a Perfect Gas, Change of Stagnation or Total
Pressure across, Hugoniot Equation, The Propagating Shock Wave, Reflected Shock
Wave, Centered Expansion Wave, Shock Tube.
UNIT IV:
Oblique Shock and Expansion Waves: Introduction, Oblique Shock Relations,
Relation between β and θ, Shock Polar, Supersonic Flow over a Wedge, Weak
Oblique Shocks, Supersonic Compression, Supersonic Expansion by Turning, The
Prandtl—Meyer Expansion, Simple and Non simple Regions, Reflection and
Intersection of Shocks, and Expansion Waves, Detached Shocks, Mach Reflection,
Shock-Expansion Theory, Thin Aerofoil Theory,
UNIT V:
Potential Equation for Compressible Flow: Introduction, Crocco’s Theorem, The
General Potential Equation for Three-Dimensional Flow, Linearization of the Potential
Equation, Potential Equation for Bodies of Revolution, Boundary Conditions, Pressure
Coefficent.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Gas Dynamics By E. Rathakrishnan PHI Learning Pvt. Ltd.
REFERENCES
1. Gas Dynamics James E. A. John, Theo G. Keith
2. Elements of Gas Dynamics By Hans Wolfgang Liepmann, Anatol Roshk
Dover Publications.
145
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 1 3
(MED1139) UNCONVENTIONAL MACHINING PROCESSES
UNIT- I
INTRODUCTION:
Unconventional Machining Process, Need, Classification, Brief overview of all
techniques, Study of material removal phenomena.
UNIT-II
MECHANICAL ENERGY BASED PROCESSES:
Abrasive Jet Machining – Water Jet Machining – Abrasive Water Jet Machining-
Ultrasonic Machining (AJM, WJM, AWJM, USM). Working Principles – equipment used
– Process parameters – MRR – Applications.
UNIT-III
ELECTRICAL ENERGY BASED PROCESSES:
Electric Discharge Machining (EDM) - working Principles-equipments-Process
Parameters-MRR- electrodes Used – Power Circuits – Dielectric – Flushing –
Applications, Wire Cut EDM- Applications
UNIT-IV
CHEMICAL AND ELECTRO-CHEMICAL ENERGY BASED PROCESSES:
Chemical Machining and Electro-Chemical machining (CHM and ECM)-Etchants-
maskants -techniques of applying maskants-Process Parameters – MRR-Applications-
Principles of ECM-equipments-MRR-Processes Parameters.
UNIT-V
THERMAL ENERGY BASED PROCESSES:
Laser Beam Machining (LBM), Plasma Arc Machining (PAM) and Electron Beam
Machining (EBM), Principles-Equipment-Process Parameters - Applications.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Advanced Machining Processes by Vijay K. Jain; Publisher: Allied Publishers
REFERENCES:
1. Nontraditional Manufacturing Processes by Benedict. G. F; Publisher: Marcel
Dekker
2. Advanced Methods of Machining by McGeough; Publisher: Chapman and
Hall, London
3. Unconventional Machining Processes by P. K. Mishra; Publisher: Narosa
146
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE I Sem T T/P/D C
Elective III 3 1 3
(AED1110) VEHICLE BODY ENGINEERING AND SAFETY
UNIT I
STRUCTURAL MATERIALS: Aluminium alloy sheet, extrusion and casting, Austenitic
and Ferritic stainless steels. alloy steels. Different types of composites, FRP and Metal
Matrix Composites. Structural timbers, properties designing in GRP and high strength
composites different manufacturing techniques of composites. Thermo plastics, ABS
and styrenes. Load bearing plastics, semi-rigid PUR foams and sandwich panel
construction
UNIT II
SHAPING AND PACKAGING: Product design and concepts, Aesthetics and industrial
design, formal aesthetics and shape. Computer aided drafting, surface development,
interior ergonomics. Ergonomics system design, dashboard instruments, advances in
electronic display, CV legal dimension. CV- cab ergonomics, mechanical package
layout.
UNIT III
AERODYNAMICS: Basics, aerofoils, aerodynamics drag lift, pitching, yawing and
rolling moments, determination of aerodynamic coefficients (wind tunnel testing). racing
car aerodynamics. bluff body aerodynamics, local air flows.
LOAD DISTRIBUTION: Types of load carrying structures,closed, integral, open, flat
types. Calculation of loading cases- static, asymmetric, vertical loads. Load distribution,
stress analysis of structure, body shell analysis.
UNIT IV
NOISE, VIBRATION, HARSHNESS: Noise and vibration basics. body structural
vibrations, chassis bearing vibration, designing against fatigue, rubber as an isolator.
CV body mountings. automatic enclosures, sandwich panels, structure dynamics
applied, surety under impact: Impact protection basics. design for crash worthiness,
occupant and cargo restraints. Passive restraint systems, slide impact analysis,
bumper system, energy absorbant foams, laws of mechanisms applied to safety.
VEHICLE STABILITY: Steering geometry vehicle and a curvilinear path, and lateral
stability. etfects of tyre factors. mass distribution and engine location on stability.
UNIT V
BODY FITTING AND I CONTROLS: Driver’s seat, window winding mechanism, Door
lock mechanism, other interior mechanisms, driver’s visibility’ and tests for, visibility,
minimum space, requirements and methods or improving space in cars. electric wiring
and electronic control systems, advanced body electronics, networking or body
systems controls.
147
VANS, TRUCKS AND BUSES: Types of mini coach with trailers, single and double
deckers. design criteria based on passenger capacity; goods to be transported and
distance to be Covered, constructional details: weights and dimensions; conventional
and integral type.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Body Engineering,by Sydney F Page
2. Vehicle body engineerin by Gilcs J Pawlowski,
REFERENCES
1. Automotive chassis,P.M. Heldt. chilton and Co
2. Handbook on vehicle body design,SAE Publications.
148
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 1 3
(MED1121) FINITE ELEMENT METHOD
UNIT I
FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTS
Introduction; Historical background; Stresses and equilibrium; Boundary conditions;
Strain-displacement relations; Stress-strain relations; Temperature effects.
ONE-DIMENSIONAL PROBLEMS
Introduction; Finite element modeling; Co-ordinates and shape functions; The potential
energy approach; Rayleigh-Ritz method; Galerkin’s method, The Galerkin approach;
Assembly of the global stiffness matrix (K) and load vector; Properties of K; The finite
element equations; Treatment of boundary conditions; Quadratic shape functions;
Temperature effects.
UNIT II
TRUSSES
Introduction; Plane trusses; Three-dimensional trusses; Assembly of global stiffness
matrix for the banded and skyline solutions.
TWO-DIMENSIONAL PROBLEMS USING CONSTANT STRAIN TRIANGLES
Introduction; Finite element modeling; Constant strain triangle (CST); Problem
modeling and boundary conditions.
UNIT III
TWO-DIMENSIONAL ISOPARAMETRIC ELEMENTS AND NUMERICAL
INTEGRATION
Introduction; The four-node quadrilateral; Numerical integration; Higher-order-
elements.
DYNAMIC ANALYSIS USING FINITE ELEMENT METHOD
Introduction; Vibration problems; Equations of motion based on weak form;
Longitudinal vibrations of bars; consistent mass matrices; element equations; solution
of Eigen value problems.
UNIT IV
AXISYMMETRIC SOLIDS SUBJECTED TO AXISYMMETRIC LOADING
Introduction; Axisymmetric formulation; Finite element modeling - triangular element;
Problem modeling and boundary conditions.
STEADY STATE HEAT TRANSFER ANALYSIS:
One dimensional analysis of Slab, fin and two dimensional analysis of thin plate.
149
UNIT V
BEAMS
Introduction; Finite element formulation; Hermite shape function, Load vector;
Boundary considerations; Shear force and bending moment; Beams on elastic
supports;
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Introduction to Finite Elements in Engineering, 2E, by Tirupathi R. Chandrupatla,
Ashok D. Belegundu; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
REFERENCES:
1. Finite Element Method by Zienkiewicz.
2. An Introduction to Finite Element Methods by J. N. Reddy.
3. Finite Element Method by S. S. Rao.
150
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 1 3
(MED1171) INTRODUCTION TO AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY AND AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS
UNIT- I
AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
Evolution and History of Flight, Types Of Aerospace Industry, Key Players in
Aerospace Industry, Aerospace Manufacturing, Industry Supply Chain, Prime
contractors, Tier 1 Suppliers, Key challenges in Industry Supply Chain, OEM Supply
Chain Strategies, Mergers and Acquisitions, Aerospace Industry Trends, Advances in
Engineering/CAD/CAM/CAE Tools and Materials technology, Global and Indian Aircraft
Scenario.
UNIT- II
INTRODUCTION TO AIRCRAFTS
Basic components of an Aircraft, Structural members, Aircraft Axis System, Aircraft
Motions, Control surfaces and High lift Devices. Types of Aircrafts - Lighter than
Air/Heavier than Air Aircrafts Conventional Design Configurations based on Power
Plant Location, Wing vertical location, intake location, Tail Unit Arrangements, Landing
Gear Arrangements. Unconventional Configurations-Biplane, Variable Sweep, Canard
Layout, Twin Boom Layouts, Span loaders, Blended Body Wing Layout, STOL and
STOVL Aircraft, Stealth Aircraft, Advantages and disadvantages of these
Configurations.
UNIT- III
INTRODUCTION TO AIRCRAFT SYSTEM
Types of Aircraft systems, Mechanical systems. Electrical and Electronic Systems.
Auxiliary systems. Mechanical Systems: Environmental control systems (ECS),
Pneumatic systems, Hydraulic systems, Fuel systems, Landing gear systems, Engine
Control Systems, Ice and rain protection systems, Cabin Pressurization and Air
Conditioning Systems, Steering and Brakes Systems Auxiliary Power Unit, Electrical
systems: Avionics, Flight controls, Autopilot and Flight Management Systems,
Navigation Systems, Communication, Information systems, Radar System.
UNIT – IV
BASIC PRINCIPLES OF FLIGHT
Significance of speed of Sound, Air speed and Ground Speed, Properties of
Atmosphere, Bernoulli’s Equation, Forces on the airplane, Airflow over wing section,
Pressure Distribution over a wing section, Generation of Lift, Drag, Pitching moments,
Types of
151
Drag, Lift curve, Drag Curve, Lift/Drag Ratio Curve, Factors affecting Lift and Drag,
Center of Pressure and its effects. Aerofoil
Nomenclature, Types of Aerofoil, Wing Section- Aerodynamic Center, Aspect Ratio,
Effects of lift, Drag, speed, Air density on drag.
UNIT - V
BASICS OF FLIGHT MECHANICS
Mach Waves, Mach Angles, Sonic and Supersonic Flight and its effects
STABILITY AND CONTROL
Degree of Stability- Lateral, Longitudinal and Directional Stability and controls of
Aircraft. Effects of Flaps and Slats on Lift Coefficients, Control Tabs, Stalling, Landing,
Gliding Turning, Speed of Sound, Mach Numbers, Shock Waves.
AIRCRAFT PERFORMANCE AND MANEUVERS
Power Curves, Maximum and minimum speeds of horizontal flight, Effects of Changes
of Engine Power, Effects of Altitude on Power Curves, Forces acting on a Aeroplane
during a Turn, Loads during a Turn, Correct and incorrect Angles of Bank, Aerobatics,
Inverted Maneuvers, Maneuverability.
REFERENCES:
1. Flight without Formulae by A.C Kermode, Pearson Education,10th Edition
2. Mechanics of Flight by A.C. Kermode, Pearson Education,5th Edition
3. Fundamentals of Flight by Shevell, Pearson Education, 2nd Edition
4. Introduction to Flight by Dave Anderson
5. Aircraft Systems: Mechanical, Electrical & Avionics Subsystems Integration by Ian
Moir, Allan Seabridge
6. Aircraft Design-A Conceptual Approach by Daniel P. Raymer, AIAA education
series,6th Edition
7. Airframe Structural Design by Michael Niu, Conmilit Press, 1988, 2nd Edition
8. Airframe Stress Analysis and Sizing by Michael Niu, Conmilit Press, 1999, 3rd
Edition
9. The Elements of Aircraft Preliminary Design by Roger D. Schaufele, Publisher:
Aries
10. Aircraft Structural Maintenance by Dale Hurst, Publisher: Avotek
11. Aircraft Maintenance and Repair by Frank Delp, Michael J. Kroes & William A.
Watkins, Glencoe, Publisher: McGraw-Hill
12. An Introduction to Aircraft Certification; A Guide to Understanding Jaa, Easa and
FAA by Filippo De Florio; Publisher: Butterworth-Heinemann
152
R12
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 1 3
(MED1142) FLUID POWER SYSTEMS
UNIT-I
HYDRAULIC POWER SYSTEMS:
Introduction, Classification of Power Systems - Mechanical Power Systems, Electrical
Power Systems, Pneumatic Power Systems, Hydrodynamic Power Systems,
Hydrostatic Power Systems, Basic Hydraulic Power Systems, The Advantages and
Disadvantages of Hydraulic Systems, Comparing Power Systems.
Basic Properties of Hydraulic Oils, Classification of Hydraulic Fluids, Typically Used
Hydraulic Fluids, Mineral Oils, Fire-Resistant Fluids, Additives, Requirements Imposed
on the Hydraulic Liquid
UNIT-II
HYDRAULIC PUMPS:
Introduction, Classification of Pumps – Bent Axis Axial Piston Pumps, Swash Plate
Pumps with Axial Pistons, Swash Plate Pumps with Inclined Pistons, Axial Piston
Pumps with Rotating Swash Plate-Wobble Plate, Radial Piston Pumps with Eccentric
Cam Ring, Radial Piston Pumps with Eccentric Shafts, Radial Piston Pumps of Crank
Type, External Gear Pumps, Internal Gear Pumps, Gerotor Pumps, Screw Pumps,
Vane Pumps, Variable Displacement Pumps, Rotodynamic Pumps
UNIT-III
HYDRAULIC CONTROL VALVES:
Introduction, Pressure-Control Valves, Direct-Operated Relief Valves, Pilot-Operated
Relief Valves, Pressure-Reducing Valves, Sequence Valves, Accumulator Charging
Valve, Directional Control Valves – types, Check Valves – types, Flow Control Valves –
types
ACCESSORIES:
Hydraulic Accumulators - Classification, Construction, Operation and Applications of
Hydraulic Accumulators, Hydraulic Filters, Hydraulic Pressure Switches – types.
UNIT-IV
HYDRAULIC ACTUATORS:
Hydraulic Cylinders – Construction, Classification, Hydraulic Rotary Actuators – types,
Hydraulic Motors – types, Hydraulic Circuits.
HYDRAULIC SERVO ACTUATORS:
Construction, Operation and Applications of Hydraulic Servo Actuators, Valve-
Controlled Actuators.
153
UNIT-V
PNEUMATIC SYSTEMS:
Introduction, Peculiarities of Pneumatic Systems, Advantages and Disadvantages of
Pneumatic Systems, Basic Elements of Pneumatic Systems, Basic Pneumatic Circuits,
Air Compressors, Pneumatic Reservoirs, Air Filters, Air Lubricators, Pneumatic Control
Valves, Manual Control of a Single- Acting Cylinder, Unidirectional Speed Control of a
Single-Acting Cylinder, Bidirectional Speed Control of a Single-Acting Cylinder,
Bidirectional Speed Control of a Double-Acting Cylinder, Unidirectional and Quick
Return Control of a Double-Acting Cylinder.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Fluid Power Engineering - M. Galal Rabie - McGraw-Hill publications
REFERENCES:
1. Design of Hydraulic Control Systems - Ernest e. Lewis, Hansjoerg stern -
McGraw-hill Publications,
2. Fluid Power Control - John f. Blackburn, Gerhard Reethof, J. Lowen shearer -
John Wiley and sons inc.
154
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 1 3
(MED1144) RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES
UNIT-I
PRINCIPLES OF RENEWABLE ENERGY:
Introduction; Energy and sustainable development; Fundamentals; Scientific principles
of renewable energy; Technical Implications; Social implications.
Introduction to Wind energy, Geothermal energy and Tidal energy.
UNIT-II
SOLAR RADIATION:
Introduction; Extraterrestrial solar radiation; Components of radiation; Geometry of
Earth and Sun; Geometry of collector and solar beam; Effects of Earths atmosphere;
Measurements of solar radiation; Estimation of solar radiation.
SOLAR WATER HEATING:
Introduction; Calculation of heat balance-general remarks; Uncovered solar water
heaters-progressive analysis; Improved solar water heaters; Systems with separate
storage; Selective surfaces; Evacuated collectors; Social and environmental aspects.
UNIT-III
BUILDINGS AND OTHER SOLAR APPLICATIONS:
Introduction; Air heaters; Energy-efficient buildings; Crop driers; Space cooling; water
desalination; Solar ponds; Solar concentrators; Solar thermal electric power systems
;Social and environmental aspects.
UNIT-IV
PHOTVOLTAIC GENERATION:
Introduction; The silicon P-N junction; Photon absorption at the junction; Solar radiation
absorption Maximising cell efficiency; Solar cell construction; Types and adaptation of
photovoltaics; Photovoltaic circuit properties; Applications and systems; Social and
environmental aspects.
UNIT-V
BIOMASS AND BIOFUEL:
Introduction; Biofuel classification; Biomass production for energy farming; Direct
combustion for heat; Pyrolysis (destructive distillation); Further thermochemical
processes; Alcoholic fermentation; Anaerobic digestion for biogas; wastes and
residues; Vegetable oils and biodiesel; social and environmental aspects
155
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Non Conventional Energy Sources by G. D. Rai;
2. Renewable Energy Resources by Tiwari & Ghosal; Publisher: Narosa
3. Solar Energy by Sukhatme
REFERENCES:
1. Principles of Solar Energy by Frank Krieth & J. F. Kreider
2. Solar Power Engineering by B. S. Magal, Frank Krieth & J. F. Kreider
3. Renewable Energy sources by John Twidell & Tony Weir; Publisher: Taylor
and Francis
156
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(MED1209) CAD/CAM LAB
12 exercises from the following syllabus:
1. CAD:
i) 2D Drawing using Sketcher workbench – 2 drawings
ii) 3D Modeling and drafting using 3D features – 2 models
iii) Assembly and drafting – 2 assemblies
iv) Surface Modeling – 1 exercise
v) Sheet Metal Working – 1 exercise
Softwares: AutoCAD, IronCAD, CATIA, CREO
2. CAM:
i) Part programming for Turning, Facing, Chamfering, Grooving, Step
turning, Taper turning operations.
ii) Part programming for Point to point motions, Linear motions,
Circular interpolation, Contour motion, Pocket milling - Circular,
Rectangular and Mirror commands.
iii) Part Programming using Fixed or Canned Cycles for Drilling, Peck
drilling, Boring, Tapping, Turning, Facing, Taper turning, Thread
cutting.
iv) Generation of tool path, NC part program and its simulation.
v) Machining of small components using CNC Lathe, CNC Mill and
CNC Turning center.
Softwares: CNC Offline Simulation, EdgeCAM
3. CAE:
a) Determination of deflection and stresses in 2D and 3D trusses and
beams.
b) Determination Principal/ Von-mises stresses and deflections, in
plane stress/ plane strain/ axisymmetric models.
c) Determination of stresses in 3D and shell structures.
Softwares: Ansys
157
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE – I Sem T T/P/D C 0 3 2
(AED1203) AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING LAB & INSTRUMENTATION LAB
1. Dismantling, Inspection for wear and tear, crack, material breakdown of
different engines components. Servicing of engines by paraffin and
degreasing methods, decarburizing procedure.
2. Dismantling, Inspection and Assembly of different parts of 2 wheelers, 3
wheelers, & Heavy duty engines covering 2-stroke and 4 stroke, SI and CI
engines.
3. Measurement of dimensions of different components of the above engines
and compare the same with standard specifications.
4. Assembling the engines with using special tools, necessary adjustments of
the engine components. Valve spring testing, connecting rod alignment,
piston ring testing procedure for dismantling and assembling.
5. Dismantling and assembly of LMV components as following:
a. Gear box b) clutch assembly c) Propeller shaft d) differential gear box e)
rear axle f) suspension system g) steering mechanism.
6. Dismantling and assembly of door frames, door locks and window locks
7. Study of driver’s seat layout in anyone LMV and anyone HMV.
8. Testing, servicing and charging of batteries
9. Servicing of generator, alternator and starter motor with dismantling, testing,
inspection and assembly.
10. Servicing of ignition systems
11. Drawing of general electrical wiring diagrams of various vehicles two and four
wheelers.
12. Measurement of base circle diameter and tooth thickness of spur and helical
gears Use of slip gauges, measurement of screw threads using screw thread
micrometer, use of comparators, experiments involving profile projectors.
Note: Driving practice of a geared two wheeler and anyone LMV for a
minimum of 10 hours during 5th &6th semester must be provided.
Instrumentation Lab: Six experiments
1. Calibration of pressure gauge using dead pressure gauge wait test
2. Study and calibration of LVDT transducer for displacement measurement.
3. Calibration of thermistor for temperature measurement.
4. Calibration of thermocouple for temperature measurement.
5. Calibration of capacitive transducer for angular displacement.
6. Study and calibration of photo and magnetic speed pickups for the
measurement of speed.
158
7 Calibration of resistance temperature detector for temperature measurement.
8. Study and calibration of a rotameter for flow measurement.
9. Study and use of a seismic pickup for the measurement of vibration amplitude
of an Engine bed at various loads.
10. Calibration of stain gauges for force measurement
159
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MED 1138) INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING AND MANAGEMENT
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING AND MANAGEMENT:
Concept of Industrial Engineering (I.E),History and Development of I.E, Role of I.E,
Applications of I.E, Production Management vs I.E, Principles of Management,
Functions of Management, Taylor's Scientific Management, Maslow's Theory of
Human Needs, Leadership Styles, Principles of Organization, Types of Organization
Structures their Merits and Demerits, Entrepreneurship.
UNIT II
PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT:
Plant Location, Principles of Plant Layout, Different Types of Plant Layouts, different
Types of Production Systems, Travel Chart Technique, Simple Problems on Assembly
Line Balancing.
Production Planning and Control: Production Cycle, Product Design and Development,
Production Planning and Control Techniques, Simple problems.
PLANT MAINTENANCE:
Objectives and Types, Equipment Selection, Maintenance Planning.
Materials Handling- Principles, Concept of Unit Load, Containerization, Selection of
Material Handling Equipment, Applications of Belt Conveyors, Cranes, Forklift Trucks
in Industry.
UNIT III
WORK STUDY:
Concept of Productivity, Method Study - Basic steps in Method Study, Process Charts,
Diagrams, Models and Templates, Principles of Motion Economy, Micro Motion Study,
Therbligs, SIMO Chart. Work Measurement - Stop Watch Procedure of Time Study,
Performance Rating, Allowances, Work Sampling, Simple Problems.
MATERIALS MANAGEMENT:
Introduction, Purchasing, Objectives of Purchasing Department, Buying Techniques,
Purchase Procedure, Stores and Material Control, Inventory Control, EOQ
Model(Simple Problems), Supply Chain Management.
Quality Control - Statistical Quality Control, Control Charts for Variables and Attribute,
Simple Problems, Acceptance Sampling, Deming's Contribution to Quality. Total
160
Quality Management, Taguchi’s Quality Engineering, Value Analysis and Value
Engineering
UNIT IV
MARKETING:
Functions of Marketing, Marketing Mix, Product Life Cycle. Channels of Distribution
and Sales Management.
Manufacturing planning: MRP, MRP-II, JIT, CIM
Materials Handling- Principles, Concept of Unit Load, Containerization, Pelletization,
Selection of Material Handling Equipment, Applications of Belt Conveyors, Cranes,
Forklift Trucks in Industry.
UNIT V
HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (HRM):
Concepts of HRM, Basic Functions of HR Manager: Manpower Planning, Recruitment,
Selection, Training and Development, Placement, Wage and Salary Administration,
Promotion, Transfer, Separation, Performance Appraisal.
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS:
Trade Unions, Industrial Disputes, Strikes, Lock-Out, Picketing, Gherao, Settlement of
Industrial Disputes, Collective Bargaining, Industrial Dispute Act 1947 and Factories
Act 1948.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Aryasri: Management Science, TMH, New Delhi, 2009
2. Industrial Engineering Management, by Dr. O. P .Khanna.
REFERENCES:
1. Principles of Management by Koontz and ODonnel.
2. Production and Operations Management by Everette Adamand Ronald Ebert.
3. Operations Management by John McClain and Joseph Thames.
4. Industrial Engineering and Production Management by Tulsa, S. Chand and
Co.
161
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 4 0 4
(MED1145) NANOTECHNOLOGY
UNIT-I:
Introduction to Nano: Importance, Definition and scope, Nano size, challenges,
applications. Electrons, Atoms and Ions, Molecules, Metals, Other Materials.
History of nano-science & technology :nano magnetism as a case study;
Fundamental terms (Physics & Chemistry) in nano-science and technology; Feynman’s
perspective; Scaling laws pertaining to mechanics, optics, electromagnetism;
Importance of Quantum mechanics, statistical mechanics and chemical kinetics in
nano-science and technology;
UNIT-II:
Classification of nano materials: scientific basis for top-down and bottom-up
approaches to synthesize Nanomaterials; How to characterize Nanomaterials?
Electrons in Nanomaterials
Tools of the Nanoscience: Tools for Measuring Nanostructures, Tools to Make
Nanostructures. Nano scale Biostructures, Energy Capture, Transformation, and
Storage Optics, Magnets, Fabrication, Electronics, Electronics Again Modelling
UNIT-III:
Nano-Biotechnology: Bio-molecules; Biosensors; Nanomaterials in drug delivery;
Working in clean room environments; Safety and related aspects of Nanomaterials
UNIT - IV:
Carbon Nanotubes & Structures: Carbon Nano structures and types of Carbon Nano
tubes, growth mechanisms of carbon nanotubes. Carbon clusters and Fullerenes,
Synthesis of CNTs by Flame, CVD, Laser & Arc-discharge process.
UNIT - V:
Lithium & Hydrogen adsorption & storages, Fuel cell applications and energy storage,
Chemical Sensors applications of CNTs
TEXT BOOKS & REFERENCES:
1. Nanotechnology Fundamentals and Applications- by Manasi Karkare I.K
International
2. Nanoscience and Nanotechnology in engineering – by Vijay K Varadan A
Sivathanupillai Word scientific
3. Nanotechnology applications to telecommunications and networking By
Daniel Minoli, Wiley Interscience
4. Nanotechnology Principles and Applications by Sulabha Kulkarni
162
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE II Sem T T/P/D C
Elective IV 4 0 4
(AED1111) ALTERNATE FUELS FOR AUTOMOBILES
Unit-I
Compressed Natural Gas(CNG) : Introduction-History of CNG-Production of CNG-
properties of CNG-CNG storage-Piping for CNG-Advantages and Disadvantages of
CNG-CNG dispensing systems-CNG transportation-Material compatibility for CNG-
CNG fuel kits-Engine modifications for CNG operations-CNG combustion-
Stoichiometric vs. Lean burn CNG engines- Engine optimization- Vehicle emission
from CNG- After treatment of CNG exhaust – CNG fuelling station safety systems-
CNG standards and regulations - Third - party inspection for alternative fuels vehicles.
CNG vehicles world wide –in India.
Unit-II
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG): Introduction-history LNG-production of LNG –
properties-economics of LNG- Advantages and Disadvantages-transportation and
storage of LNG-Piping for LNG-LNG dispensers-LNG to CNG conversion system-
regulations for LNG-LNG vehicle world wide- Vehicle performance characteristics for
LNG- Vehicle emissions from LNG-LNG India.
Liquefied Petroleum Natural Gas (LPG): Introduction-History of LPG- Production of
LPG- properties, Storage of LPG-dispensing of LPG-LPG nozzles and receptacles-
material compatibility for LPG- Piping, safety systems and transportation of LPG-
Advantages and disadvantages of LPG-LPG engine developments-LPG fuel kits and
combustion, Emission from LPG-LPG Standards-LPG Vehicle world wide-LPG
Scenario in India
Unit-III
Liquefied Hydrogen: Properties of Hydrogen- Production of hydrogen-photochemical
production of Hydrogen – Algal production of Hydrogen(Bio Hydrogen)-On- board
storage of Hydrogen-metal hydrates-compressed hydrogen gas- activates carbon
storage-Hazards with LH - Advantages and Disadvantages of LH - Transportation of
2 2
LH -Piping for LH - Dispensers for LH vehicle emissions from LH - BMW liquid
2 2 2- 2
hydrogen cars - liquid hydrogen in India.
Bio-Fuels: Bio gas – Methanol- Ethanol- Butanol- straight vegetable oil – bio diesels-
properties – production- storage methods – power densities- advantages and
disadvantages over conventional fuels- specific deign criteria use in automobiles.
Unit-IV
Electric vehicles: Introduction- batteries electric vehicle-components of EV- EV
batteries- EV chargers- EV drives- EV tractive force -EV transmission-EV motor
design- EV Power devices and controllers-Advantages and Disadvantages-
163
Performance characteristics- testing –EV challengers- EV scenario in India-Hybrid
electric vehicles- International status of Hybrid EVs-HEV batteries- HEV ultra
capacitors- HEV motors- HEV transmissions- drive train components, HEV
performance specifications.
Unit V
Fuel cell Power vehicles: Fuel cell vehicle-Benefits of fuel cells for automotive
industry- Basics, efficiency and types of fuel cells-Fuel cell options for fuel cell vehicle-
fuel regulations- Fuel cell hybrid vehicle- Fuel cell solar vehicle, Solar photovoltaic cell,
Solar car electrical system and drive train, solar array-solar car body and chassis-
Hybrid gas turbine EV – Nuclear car-road map for alternative power trains.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Alternative fuels/ SS Thipse/ JAICO Publishers/ 2010
2. Alternative fuel technology/ Erjavec, Arias/ Yesdee Publications/ 2009
REFERENCES:
1. A text book of alternative fuel of Automobile Engine, Ramireddy and Yousuf,
Front line Publishers
2. The Complete Idiot's Guide to Hybrid and Alternative Fuel Vehicles by Jack
R. Nerad.
3. Hybrid and Alternative Fuel Vehicles (New Edition)by James D. Halderman
4. Powering Your Vehicle With Straight Vegetable Oil by Forest Gregg
164
R12
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
IV B.Tech ME/AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 4 0 4
(MED1146) MAINTENANCE AND SAFETY ENGINEERING
UNIT I
Introduction – Need for Maintenance – Facts and Figures Modern Maintenance –
Problem and Maintenance Strategy for the 21st Century – Engineering Maintenance,
Objectives – Maintenance in Equipment Life Cycle – Terms and Definitions.
Maintenance Management And Control - Maintenance Manual Maintenance Facility
Evolution – Functions Of Effective Maintenance Management – Maintenance Project
Control Methods – Maintenance Management Control Indices.
UNIT II
Types of Maintenance - Preventive Maintenance - Elements Of Preventive
Maintenance Programme Evolution And Improvement – PM measures – PM models –
Corrective Maintenance – Types – Steps – Down Time Components – Measures and
Models.
Inventory Control In Maintenance–Objectives, Basics Of Inventory Control –
Inventory Decision – ABC Inventory Control Method – Inventory Control Models – Two
Bin Inventory Control – Safety Stock – Spare Parts Management – Determination –
Factors – Spares Calculation - Methods
UNIT III
Quality and Safety in Maintenance - Need for Quality Maintenance – Processes –
Maintenance of Work Quality – Use of Control Charts in Maintenance – Work Sampling
– Post Maintenance Testing – Reasons for Safety Problems in Maintenance – Guide
Lines to Improve Safety in Maintenance Work – Safety Officers Role in Maintenance
Work – Protection Of Maintenance Workers.
UNIT IV
Maintenance Costing – Reasons for Maintenance Costing – Maintenance Budget
Preparation – Methods and Steps – Maintenance Labor Cost Estimation – Material
Cost Estimation – Equipment Life Cycle Maintenance Cost Estimation – Maintenance
Cost Estimation Models
UNIT V
Reliability Reliability Centered Maintenance (RCM) – Goals and Principals – RCM
Process and Associated Questions – RCM Benefits and Reasons for its Failure –
Reliability VS Maintenance – Reliability in Support Phase – Bathtub Hazard Rate
Concept – Reliability Measures and Formulas – Reliability Networks – Reliability
Analysis Techniques
165
Maintainability Importance and Objectives – Maintainability in Systems Life Cycle –
Maintainability Design Characteristics – Maintainability Functions and Measures –
Common Maintainability Design Errors.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Reliability , Maintenance and Safety Engineering by Dr. A.K.Gupta / Laxmi
Publications
2. Industrial Safety Management by L.M. Desh Mukh/ TML publications
REFERENCES
1. Maintenance Engineering & Management by R.C. Mishra – PHI
2. Reliability Engineering by Elsayed / Pearson
3. Engineering Maintenance – a Modern Approach – B.S. Dhailon 2002, C.R.R.
Publishers.
166
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 4 0 4
(MED1136) TRIBOLOGY
UNIT – I
STUDY OF VARIOUS PARAMETERS:
Viscosity of fluid flow, Absolute and Kinematic Viscosity, Variation of viscosity with
temperature, Viscosity Index and determination of viscosity, Viscometry.
UNIT – II
HYDROSTATIC LUBRICATION:
Hydrostatic Step bearing, application to pivoted pad thrust bearing and other
applications, Hydrostatic lubrication systems, Multirecess journal bearing, Hydrostatic
lifts and its application to journal bearing.
UNIT – III
HYDRODYNAMIC THEORY OF LUBRICATION:
One dimensional Journal bearing , Infinitely long and short journal bearings, Petroffs
equation, Reynolds equation, pressure distribution and load carrying capacity,
sommerfeld number, bearing modulus, and oil film thickness
UNIT – IV
BEARING MATERIALS:
General requirements of bearing materials, types of bearing materials
UNIT – V
FRICTION, WEAR AND LUBRICATION:
Laws of friction, Friction Theories and Mechanisms, Types, Wear and influence of
operating conditions, manufacturing methods, improved wear resistance, wear testing
methods, wear of metals, ceramics and polymers, Lubrication and Lubricants
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Fundamentals of Tribology by S. K. Basu, S. N. Sengupta & B. B. Ahuja;
Publisher: Prentice Hall International
2. Introduction to Tribology of Bearings by B. C. Majundar; Publisher: Wheeler
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Tribology by Prasanta Sahoo; Publisher: Prentice Hall
International
2. Friction, Wear and Lubrication, Vol. I, II, III by Kargelski; Publisher: MIR
Publishers, 1983
3. Tribology for Engineers: A Practical Guide by Paulo Davim; Publisher:
Woodhead Publishing 2011.
167
R12
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 4 0 4
(MED1153) PRINCIPLES OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Definition of Entrepreneur, Entrepreneurial Traits, Entrepreneur vs. Manager,
Entrepreneur vs Intrapreneur, The Entrepreneurial decision process, Role of
Entrepreneurship in Economic Development, Ethics and Social responsibility of
Entrepreneurs, Opportunities for Entrepreneurs in India and abroad, Woman as
Entrepreneur.
UNIT II
CREATING AND STARTING THE VENTURE
Sources of new Ideas, Methods of generating ideas, creating problem solving, product
planning and development process.
UNIT III
THE BUSINESS PLAN, NEW VENTURE EXPANSION STRATEGIES AND ISSUES
Nature and scope of Business plan, Writing Business Plan, Evaluating Business plans,
Using and implementing business plans. Marketing plan, financial plan and the
organizational plan, Launching formalities. Features and evaluation of joint ventures,
acquisitions, merges, franchising. Public issues, rights issues, bonus issues and stock
splits.
UNIT IV
FINANCING AND MANAGING THE NEW VENTURE
Sources of capital, Record keeping, Recruitment, Motivating and leading teams,
Financial controls, Marketing and sales controls, E-commerce and Entrepreneurship,
Internet advertising.
UNIT V
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT TO ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND LABOUR
LEGISLATION
Role of Directorate of Industries, District Industries Centres (DICs), Industrial
Development Corporation (IDC), State Financial Corporation (SFCs), Small Scale
Industries Development Corporations (SSIDCs), Khadi and Village Industries
Commission (KVIC), Technical Consultancy Organisation (TCO), Small Industries
Service Institute (SISI), National Small Industries Corporation (NSIC), Small Industries
Development Bank of India(SIDBI). Salient Provision under Indian Factories Act,
168
Industrial Disputes Act, Employees State Insurance Act, Workmen's Compensation Act
and payment of Bonus Act.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Robert Hirsch and Michael Peters: Entrepreneurship, TMH, 5th Edition.
2. Dillinger: Entrepreneurship, 4/e, Pearson, 2004.
REFERENCES:
1. Vasant Desai: Dynamics of Entrepreneurial Development and management,
Himalaya Publishing House, 2004.
2. Harvard Business Review on Entrepreneurship, HBR Paper Back, 1999.
3. Robert J.Calvin: Entrepreneurial Management, TMH, 2004.
4. Gurmeet Naroola: The Entrepreneurial Connection, TMH, 2001.
5. Bolton and Thompson: Entrepeneurs- Talent, Temperament, Technique,
Butterworth Heinemann, 2001.
6. Agarwal: Indian Economy, Wishwa Prakashan 2005.
7. Duttand Sundaram: Indian Economy. S. Chand, 2005.
8. Srivastava: Industrial Relationsand Labour Laws, Vikas, 2005.
9. Aruna Kaulgud: Entrepreneurship Management by Vikas Publishing House,
2003.
10. Thomas W. Zimmererand Norman M. Scarborough: Essential of
Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management,
PHI, 4/e, 2005.
11. Mary Coulter: Entrepreneurship in Action, PHI, 2/e, 2005.
12. Kaplan: Patterns of Entrepreneurship, Willey, 2005.
13. ND Kapoor: Industrial Law, Sultan Chandand Sons, 2005.
169
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 4 0 4
(MED1154) INTERACTIVE COMPUTER GRAPHICS
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION:
Introduction, Application area of Computer graphics, Overview of graphic system,
Display devices, Raster-scan systems, Random Scan Systems, Graphics Monitors and
Work stations and Input devices
UNIT II
OUTPUT PRIMITIVES:
Points and lines, Line drawing algorithms, Mid-point circle algorithm
FILLED AREA PRIMITIVES:
Scan-line polygon fill algorithm, Boundary-fill and flood-fill algorithm
UNIT III
2-D GEOMETRICAL TRANSFORMATIONS:
Translation, scaling, rotation, reflection and shear transformation matrix
representations and homogeneous co-ordinates, composite transformations,
transformations between coordinates
2-D VIEWING:
The viewing pipe-line, Viewing coordinate reference frame, Window to view-port
coordinate transformations, Viewing function, Cohen-Sutherland and Cyrus-beck line
clipping algorithms, Sutherland - Hodgeman polygon clipping algorithm
UNIT IV
3-D OBJECT REPRESENTATION:
Polygon surfaces, Quadric surfaces, Spline representation, Hermite curve, Bezier
curve and B-spline curve, Bezier and B-spline surfaces, Basic illumination models,
Shading algorithms
3-D GEOMETRIC TRANSFORMATIONS:
Translation, Rotation, Scaling, Reflection and Shear transformation, Composite
transformations
UNIT V
HIDDEN LINE REMOVAL:
Visibility of object views, Visibility techniques, Sorting, Coherence,
Formulation and implementation, Sample hidden line algorithms and hidden line
removal for curved surfaces
170
HIDDEN SURFACE REMOVAL:
Z-buffer algorithm and Warnock's algorithm
HIDDEN SOLID REMOVAL:
Ray-tracing algorithm
SHADING:
Shading models, shading surfaces, Shading enhancements and Shading
solids
COLORING:
Color models, User interface or shading and coloring.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Computer Graphics C version by Donald Hearn & M. Pauline Baker;
Publisher: Pearson/PHI
2. Computer Graphics Principles and Practice / 2 edition in C/ Foley, VanDam,
Feiner and Hughes/Pearson Education
3. CAD/CAM - Theory and Practice / Ibrahim Zeid / TMH
REFERENCES:
1. Computer Graphics/ 2 edition / Zhig and kiang, Roy Plastic, Schaum's
outlines/TMH.
2. Procedural elements for Computer Graphics / David F Rogers / Tata Mc
Graw hill/2nd edition.
3. Principles of Interactive Computer Graphics/Neuman and Sproul/TMH.
4. Principles of Computer Graphics/Shalini Govil
171
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 4 0 4
(MED1147) DESIGN FOR MANUFACTURING
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION:
Design philosophy, Steps in design process, General design rules for
manufacturability, Basic principles of designing for economical production, Creativity in
design.
MATERIALS:
Selection of materials for design, Criteria for material selection, Material selection
interrelationship with process selection, Process Selection charts.
UNIT II
MACHINING PROCESS:
Overview of various machining processes, General design rules for machining,
Dimensional tolerance and surface roughness, Design for machining ease,
Redesigning of components for machining ease with suitable examples, General
design recommendations for machined parts.
METAL CASTING:
Appraisal of various casting processes, Selection of casting process, General design
considerations for casting, Casting tolerances, Use of solidification simulation in
casting design, Product design rules for sand casting.
UNIT III
METAL JOINING:
Appraisal of various welding processes, Factors in design of weldments, General
design guidelines - Pre and post treatment of welds, Effects of thermal stresses in weld
joints, Design of brazed joints.
FORGING:
Design factors for Forging, Closed die forging design, Parting lines of die drop forging
die design, General design recommendations.
EXTRUSION AND SHEET METAL WORK:
Design guidelines for extruded sections, Design principles for Punching, Blanking,
Bending, Deep Drawing, Keeler Goodman Forming Line Diagram, Component design
for Blanking.
172
UNIT-IV
ASSEMBLY ADVANTAGES:
Development of the assembly process, Choice of assembly method, Assembly
advantages, Social effects of automation.
AUTOMATIC ASSEMBLY TRANSFER SYSTEMS:
Continuous transfer, Intermittent transfer, Indexing mechanisms and operator - paced
free transfer machine.
UNIT-V
DESIGN OF MANUAL ASSEMBLY:
General design guidelines for manual assembly, Development of the systematic DFA
methodology, Assembly efficiency, Classification system for manual handling,
Classification system for manual insertion and fastening, Effect of part symmetry on
handling time, Effect of part thickness and size on handling time, Effect of weight on
handling time.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Assembly Automation and Product Design by Geoffrey Boothroyd, Publisher:
Marcel Dekker Inc.,
2. Engineering Design – Material and Processing Approach by George E.
Dieter, Publisher: McGraw Hill Intl.
REFERENCES:
1. Hand Book of Product Design by Geoffrey Boothroyd, Publisher: Marcel and
Dekker
2. Computer Aided Assembly Planning by A. Delchambre, Publisher: Springer
173
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 4 0 4
(MED1148) NON-DESTRUCTIVE TESTING AND EVALUATION
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO NON DESTRUCTIVE TESTING
Scope and advantages of NDT, Comparison of NDT with DT, Overview of the Non
Destructive Testing Methods used, terminology, Comparison of advantages and
limitations of different NDT methods. Visual inspection and equipment used for visual
inspection.
UNIT II
COMMON NDT METHODS
Die Penetrate Test (liquid penetrate inspection), Principle, scope. Equipment and
techniques, Test stations, Advantage, types of penetrant and developers, Illustrative
examples
Magnetic Particle Inspection: Scope, principle, Ferro Magnetic and Non-ferro magnetic
materials, equipment and testing. Advantages, limitations Interpretation of results.
UNIT III
RADIOGRAPHIC METHODS
Radiant energy and radiography, practical applications , X-ray and Gamma – ray
equipment, effect of variables on radiographs, requirement of a good radiograph,
interpretation of radiograph, safety precautions, Xeroradiography – case study – X –ray
of human body
UNIT IV
ULTRASONIC TESTING (UT) AND ACOUSTIC EMISSION (AE)
Introduction, Principle of operation, Piezoelectricity. Ultrasonic probes, CRO
techniques, advantages, Limitation and applications. Applications in inspection of
castings, welding - bars, pipes, and rails. Case study – Ultrasonography of human
body.
UNIT V
EDDY CURRENT INSPECTION
Principle, Methods, Advantages, Scope and limitations, Types of Probes, Case studies.
174
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Prakash Ravi, “Nondestructive Testing Techniques”, New Age International
Publishers, 1st edition, 2007
2. Paul E Mix, “Introduction to non-destructive testing: a training guide”, Wiley,
2nd edition New Jersey, 2005
3. ASM Handbook Vol. 11, 8th Edition – Non-destructive Testing and Evaluation
REFERENCES:
1. Baldev Raj, B. Venkataraman, D. J. Varde, Nerulikar, “Practical Magnetic
Particle Testing”, Narosa Publishing House, 2007 96
2. Charles, J. Hellier, “Handbook of non-destructive evaluation”, McGraw Hill,
New York 2001.
3. ASNT, American Society for Non Destructive Testing, Columbus, Ohio, NDT
Handbook.
4. Barry Hull and Vernon John: Non-Destructive Testing, Mac Milan Education
Ltd., Hound mills, Basingstoke, Hampshire, 1988
175
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech AE II SEM L T/P/D C
Elective V 4 0 4
(AED 1113) AUTOMOTIVE POLLUTION AND CONTROL
UNIT – I
INTRODUCTION: Vehicle population assessment in metropolitan cities and
contribution to pollution, effects on human health and environment, global warming,
types of emission, transient operational effects on pollution.
UNIT – II
POLLUTANT FORMATION IN SI ENGINES: Pollutant formation in SI Engines,
mechanism of HC and CO formation in four stroke and two Stroke SI engines, NO
x
formation in SI engines, effects of design and operating variables on emission
formation, control of evaporative emission, Two stroke engine pollution.
UNIT – III
POLLUTANT FORMATION IN CI ENGINES: Pollutant formation in CI engines, smoke
and particulate emissions in CI engines, effects of design and operating variables on CI
engine emissions, No formation and control, Noise pollution from Automobiles,
x
measurement and standards.
UNIT – IV
CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SI AND CI ENGINES: Design of engine, optimum
selection of operating variables for control of emissions, EGR (Exhaust Gas
Recirculation), Thermal reactors, secondary air injection, catalytic converters, catalysts,
fuel Modifications, fuel cells, Two stroke engine pollution control.
UNIT – V
MEASUREMENT TECHNIQUES EMISSION STANDARDS AND TEST
PROCEDURE: Orsat Apparatus, NDIR (Non Dispersive Infra Red),FID (Flame
Ionization Detector), Chemiluminescent analyzers, Gas Chromatograph, smoke
meters, emission standards, driving cycles – USA, Japan, Euro and India. Test
procedures – ECE (Electronic Concentration Emission), FPT (Federal Procedure
Tests), SHED (Sealed Housing Evaporating Determination) Test – chassis
dynamometers, dilution tunnels.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Paul Degobert – Automobiles and Pollution – SAE International ISBN-1-56091-563-3
2. Ganesan, V- “Internal Combustion Engines”- Tata McGraw-Hill Co.
REFERENCES
1. Obert.E.F.- “Internal Combustion Engines”- 1988
2. SAE Transactions- “Vehicle Emission”- 1982 (3 volumes).
3. Marco Nute- “Emissions from two stroke engines, SAE Publication
176
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 4 0 4
(MED1141) COMPUTATIONAL FLUID DYNAMICS
UNIT-I
ELEMENTARY DETAILS IN NUMERICAL TECHNIQUES
Number system and errors, representation of integers, fractions, floating point
arithmetic, loss of significance and error propagation, condition for instability,
computational methods for error estimation, convergence of sequences.
APPLIED NUMERICAL METHODS
Solution of a system of simultaneous Linear Algebraic Equations, iterative schemes of
Matrix Inversion, Direct Methods for Matrix inversion, Direct Methods for banded
matrices.
UNIT - II
FINITE DIFFERENCE APPLICATIONS IN HEAT CONDUCTION AND CONVECTION
Heat conduction, steady heat conduction in a rectangular geometry, transient heat
conduction, finite difference application in convective heat transfer, closure.
Finite Differences, discretization, consistency, stability, and Fundamentals of fluid flow
modeling: Introduction, elementary finite difference quotients, implementation aspects
of finite-difference equations, consistency, explicit and implicit methods.
UNIT - III
INTRODUCTION TO FIRST ORDER WAVE EQUATION
Stability of hyperbolic and elliptic equations, fundamentals of fluid flow modeling,
conservative property, the upwind scheme.
UNIT - IV
REVIEW OF EQUATIONS GOVERNING FLUID FLOW AND HEAT TRANSFER
Introduction, conservation of mass, Newton’s second law of motion, expanded forms of
Navier-stokes equations, conservation of energy principle, special forms of the Navier-
stokes equations.
UNIT-V
FINITE VOLUME METHOD
Approximation of surface integrals, volume integrals, interpolation and differentiation
practices, upwind interpolation, linear interpolation and quadratic interpolation.
177
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Numerical heat transfer and fluid flow / Suhas V. Patankar/Hemashava
Publishers Corporation &McGraw Hill.
2. Computational Fluid Flow and Heat Transfer/ Muralidaran/Narosa
Publications
REFERENCES:
1. Computational Fluid Dynamics: Basics with applications/John D. Anderson/
McGraw Hill.
2. Fundamentals of Computational Fluid Dynamics/Tapan K. Sengupta /
Universities Press.
3. Introduction to Theoretical and Computational Fluid Dynamics/C.
Pozrikidis/Oxford University Press/2nd Edition
178
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 4 0 4
(MED1140) PLANT LAYOUT AND MATERIAL HANDLING SYSTEMS
UNIT I
PLANT LAYOUTS
Fundamentals of plant layouts, Classification of layout, Advantages and limitations of
different layouts. Layout design procedures. Process Layout and Product Layout:
Comparison, Selection, Specification, Implementation and follow up.
UNIT II
Group Layout and Fixed Position Layout, Quadratic assignment model, Branch and
bound method. Software tools used for making plant layouts – ALDEP, CORELAP,
CRAFT; Case studies
UNIT III
ELEMENTS OF MATERIAL HANDLING SYSTEM
Importance; Terminology; Objectives and benefits of better material handling;
Principles and features of Material Handling System; Interrelationships between
material handling and plant layout; Physical facilities and other organizational
functions; Classification of material handling equipments.
SELECTION OF MATERIAL HANDLING EQUIPMENTS
Factors affecting for selection; Material handling equation; Choices of material handling
equipment; General analysis procedures; Basic analytical techniques; The unit load
concept; Selection of suitable types of systems for applications; Activity cost data and
economic analysis for design of components of material handling systems; Functions
and parameters affecting service; Packing and storage of materials.
UNIT IV
HOISTS
Drives for hoisting; Components and hoisting mechanisms; Rail traveling components
and mechanisms; Hoisting gear operation during transient motion; Selecting the motor
rating and determining breaking torque for hoisting mechanisms.
CRANES
Hand-propelled and electrically driven E.O.T. overhead traveling cranes; Traveling
mechanisms of cantilever and monorail cranes; Design considerations for structures of
rotary cranes with fixed radius; Fixed post and overhead traveling cranes; Stability of
stationary rotary and traveling rotary cranes.
179
ASRS
Introduction to ASRS and AGVS
UNIT V
LOAD LIFTING ATTACHMENTS
Load chains and types of ropes used in material handling system; Forged, Standard
and ramshorn hooks; Crane grabs and clamps; Grab buckets; Electromagnet; Design
consideration for conveyor belts; Application of attachments.
STUDY OF SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENTS USED FOR MATERIAL STORAGE
Objectives of storage; Bulk material handling; Gravity flow of solids through slides and
chutes; Storage in bins and hoppers; Belt conveyors; Bucket-elevators; Screw
conveyors; Vibratory conveyors; Cabin conveyors; Mobile racks etc.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Operations Management A Quantitative Approach by P. B. Mahapatra, Publisher:
Prentice Hall International
2. Operations Management by S. Anil Kumar, N. Suresh, Publisher: New Age
Publishers
3. Material Handling Equipment by N. Rudenko; Publisher: Peace publishers.
4. Facility Layout, Location and Analytical Approach by R. L. Francis, L. F. McLinnis
Jr., White; Publisher: Prentice Hall International
5. Aspects of Material Handling by Dr. K. C. Arora & Shinde; Publisher: Lakshmi
Publications
180
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 4 0 4
(MED1172) DESIGN OF AIRCRAFT STRUCTURES
UNIT-I
OVERVIEW OF THE AIRCRAFT DESIGN PROCESS
Introduction, Phases of Aircraft Design, Aircraft Conceptual Design Process,
Conceptual Stage, Preliminary Design, Detailed Design, Design Methodologies.
FUNDAMENTALS OF STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS
Review of Hooke’s Law, Principal stresses, Equilibrium and Compatibility, Determinate
Structures, St Venant’s Principle, Conservation of Energy, Stress Transformation,
Stress Strain Relations.
UNIT- II
INTRODUCTION TO AIRCRAFT STRUCTURES
Types of Structural members of Fuselage and wing section Ribs, Spars, Frames,
Stringers, Longeron, Splices, Sectional Properties of structural members and their
loads, Types of structural joints, Type of Loads on structural joints.
AIRCRAFT LOADS
Aerodynamic Loads, Inertial Loads, Loads due to engine, Actuator Loads, Maneuver
Loads, VN diagrams, Gust Loads, Ground Loads, Ground conditions, Miscellaneous
Loads.
UNIT-III
AIRCRAFT MATERIALS AND MANUFACTURING PROCESSES
Material selection criteria, Aluminum Alloys, Titanium Alloys, Steel Alloys, Magnesium
Alloys, copper Alloys, Nimonic Alloys, Non Metallic Materials, Composite Materials,
Use of Advanced materials Smart materials, Manufacturing of A/C structural members,
Overview of Types of manufacturing processes for Composites, Sheet metal
Fabrication ,Machining, Welding, Superplastic Forming And Diffusion Bonding.
UNIT-IV
STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS OF AIRCRAFT STRUCTURES
Theory of Plates- Analysis of plates for bending, stresses due to bending, Plate
deflection under different end conditions, Strain energy due to bending of circular,
rectangular plates, Plate buckling, Compression buckling, shear buckling, Buckling due
to in plane bending moments, Analysis of stiffened panels in buckling, Rectangular
plate buckling, Analysis of Stiffened panels in Post buckling, Post buckling under
shear, Sample Exercises.
Theory of Shells-Analysis of Shell Panels for Buckling, Compression loading, Shear
Loading / Shell Shear Factor, Circumferential Buckling Stress, Sample Exercises.
181
Theory of Beams-Symmetric Beams in Pure Bending, Deflection of beams,
Unsymmetrical Beams in Bending, Plastic Bending of beams, Shear Stresses due to
Bending in Thin Walled Beams, Bending of Open Section Beams, Bending of Closed
Section Beams, Shear Stresses due to Torsion in Thin Walled Beams. Sample
Exercises.
Theory of Torsion- Shafts of Non-Circular Sections, Torsion in Closed Section Beams,
Torsion in Open Section Beams, Multi Cell Sections, Sample Exercises.
UNIT-V
AIRWORTHINESS AND AIRCRAFT CERTIFICATION
Definition, Airworthiness Regulations, Regulatory Bodies, Type certification, General
Requirements, Requirements Related to Aircraft Design Covers, Performance and
Flight Requirements, Airframe Requirements, Landing Requirements, Fatigue and
Failsafe requirements, Emergency Provisions, Emergency Landing requirements
AIRCRAFT STRUCTURAL REPAIR
Types of Structural damage, Nonconformance, Rework, Repair, Allowable damage
Limit, Repairable Damage Limit, Overview of ADL Analysis, Types of Repair, Repair
Considerations and best practices
REFERENCES:
1. Flight without Formulae by A.C Kermode, Pearson Education,10th Edition
2. Mechanics of Flight by A.C Kermode, Pearson Education,5th Edition
3. Fundamentals of Flight, Shevell, Pearson Education, 2nd Edition
4. Introduction to Flight by Dave Anderson
5. Aircraft Systems: Mechanical, Electrical and Avionics Subsystems Integration by
Ian moir, Allan Seabridge
6. Aircraft Design - A Conceptual Approach by Daniel P.Raymer, AIAA education
series,6th Edition
7. Airframe Structural Design by Michael Niu, Conmilit Press, 1988,2nd Edition
8. Airframe Stress Analysis and Sizing by Michael Niu, Conmilit Press, 1999,3rd
Edition
9. The Elements of Aircraft Preliminary Design – Roger D. Schaufele, Aries
Publications, 2000
10. Aircraft Structural Maintenance by Dale Hurst, Avotek publishers, 2nd Edition,
2006
11. Aircraft Maintenance and Repair by Frank Delp, Michael J. Kroes & William A.
Watkins, Glencoe and McGraw-Hill,6th Edition, 1993
12. An Introduction to Aircraft Certification; A Guide to Understanding Jaa, Easa and
FAA by Filippo De Florio, Butterworth-Heinemann
182
