SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/R12/R12CE.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
Civil Engineering
B.TECH. FOUR YEAR DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2012-2013)
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous Institute
Approved by AICTE & Affiliated to JNTUH
Accredited by NBA and NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
Bachupally, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500090, Andhra Pradesh, India
Phone: 040-23042758/59/60; FAX: 040-23042761
E-Mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi and Govt. of A.P & Affiliated to JNTUH
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS FOR B.TECH. DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for Students admitted from the academic year 2012-2013)
1. Courses of study
The following courses of study are offered at present for specialization for the B.
Tech. Course:
Branch Code Branch
01 Civil Engineering.
02 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
03 Mechanical Engineering
04 Electronics and Communication Engineering
05 Computer Science and Engineering.
10 Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
12 Information Technology
24 Automobile Engineering
1.1 Eligibility Criteria for Admission
The eligibility criteria for admission into engineering programmes shall be
as mentioned below:
The candidate shall be an Indian National / NRI
The candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st
December of the academic year for which the admissions are being
conducted.
The Candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or
equivalent as on the date of admission.
Seats in each programme in the Institution are classified into Category A
and Category B as per the G.Os.
2
1.1.1 Category – A Seats
These seats will be filled through counseling as per the rank at the
Common Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by the State Government
and as per other admission criteria laid down in the G.Os.
1.1.2 Category - B Seats
These seats will be filled by the institute as per the G.Os Issued by State
Government from time to time.
1.1.3 Category: Lateral Entry
The candidate shall be admitted into the Third Semester, based on the
rank secured by the candidate at Engineering Common Entrance Test
(ECET(FDH)) by the Convener, ECET.
2. Distribution and Weightage of Marks
i. The performance of a student in each Semester shall be evaluated subject
–wise with a maximum of 100 marks for theory and 100 marks for
practical subjects. In addition, an Industry oriented mini-project, Seminar,
Comprehensive viva-voce, and Project Work shall be evaluated for 50, 50,
50 and 200 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects the distribution shall be 30 marks for Mid Semester
Evaluation and 70 marks for the End-Examination.
For theory subjects, Two mid examinations will be conducted in each
Semester as per the academic calendar. Each mid examination is
evaluated for 25 marks.
Two assignments are to be given to students covering the syllabus of first
Mid and second Mid examinations and are evaluated for 5 marks each. .
The first assignment shall be submitted before first mid examinations and
second Assignment should be submitted before second mid examination.
At the end of the Semester, Internal Marks (Maximum 30) for the
respective subject is assigned as follows:
(a) 25 marks: 80% from the best performed Mid examination and 20%
from the other Mid examination.
(b) 5 marks: Average of the two assignment marks
iii. For practical subjects there shall be a continuous evaluation during the
Semester for 30 marks and 70 marks for end examination. Out of the 30
marks, day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be evaluated for 10
marks, and 10 marks for practical examination (two practical examinations
will be conducted and the average of the two examinations will be taken
into account) and 10 marks for laboratory record.
NOTE: A student who is absent for any assignment/Mid term examination for
any reason what so ever shall be deemed to have secured ‘zero’
3
marks in the test/examination and no makeup test/examination shall
be conducted.
iv For the subjects having design and / or drawing, (such as Engineering
Graphics, Engineering Drawing, Machine Drawing, Production Drawing
Practice, and Estimation etc.,) the distribution shall be 30 marks for
internal evaluation (15 marks for day-to-day work and 15 marks for
Mid examination (the average of the two examinations will be taken into
account) and 70 marks for end semester examination. There shall be
two Mid examinations in a Semester.
V There shall be an industry-oriented mini-Project, in collaboration with an
industry of their specialization, to be taken up during the a summer
vacation after III year II Semester examination. The mini project shall be
evaluated during the IV year I Semester. The industry oriented mini
project shall be submitted in report form and should be presented before a
committee, which shall be evaluated for 50 marks. The committee consists
of Head of the Department, the supervisor of mini project and a senior
faculty member of the department. There shall be no Midterm
assessment for industry oriented mini project. However, attending the
shadow engineering program is a pre – requisite for evaluating
industry – oriented mini project. Students should submit a report on
learning outcomes of the shadow engineering. Every student should attend
shadow engineering programming an industry for a week days during
second year I or II semester.
vi. There shall be a Seminar presentation in IV year II Semester. For the
Seminar, the student shall collect the information on a specialized topic
other than the project topic and prepare a technical report, showing his
understanding of the topic, and submit to the department, which shall be
evaluated by a Departmental committee consisting of the Head of the
department, Seminar supervisor and a senior faculty member. The
seminar will be awarded 50 marks in which 40 marks will be evaluated
for seminar report and 10 marks for MTP Record by the committee.
vii. There shall be a Comprehensive Viva-Voce in IV year II Semester. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce will be conducted by a Committee consisting of
the Head of the Department and three Senior Faculty members of the
Department. The Comprehensive Viva-Voce is aimed to assess the
student‘s understanding in various subjects studied during the B.Tech.
course of study. The Comprehensive Viva-Voce is evaluated for 50 marks
by the Committee. There will be no Midterm assessment for the
Comprehensive viva-voce.
viii. The Project work shall be started by the student in the beginning of the IV
year I Semester. Out of a total of 200 marks for the project work, 60 marks
4
shall be for Midterm Evaluation and 140 marks for the Semester end
Examination. The viva-voce shall be conducted by a committee
comprising of an external examiner, Head of the Department and the
project supervisor and one senior faculty. The evaluation of project work
shall be conducted at the end of the IV year II Semester. The Midterm
Evaluation shall be on the basis of three Seminars conducted during
the IV year II Semester for 30 marks by the committee consisting of
Head of the Department, project supervisor and senior faculty
member of the Department and for 30 marks by the supervisor of the
project.
3. Semester end Examination
(a) Theory Courses
Each course is evaluated for 70 marks. Examination is of 3 hours duration.
(b) Practical Courses
Each lab course is evaluated for 70 marks. The examination shall be
conducted by the laboratory teacher and another senior teacher
concerned with the subject of the same/other department/Industry. One
examiner may be appointed by the Chief Superintendent in consultation
with HOD as and when required.
(c ) Supplementary Examinations
Supplementary examinations will be conducted along with regular
Semester end examinations.
(During even Semester regular examinations: supplementary examinations
of odd Semester
and during odd Semester regular examinations: supplementary
examinations of even Semester will be conducted).
4. Attendance Requirements
i. A student shall be eligible to appear for the Semester end examinations if
he acquires a minimum of 75% of attendance in aggregate of all the
subjects for Semester.
ii. Condonation of shortage of attendance in aggregate up to 10% (65% and
above and below 75%) in a Semester may be granted by Institute
Academic Committee.
iii. A student will not be permitted to write the end examination and not
promoted to the next Semester unless he satisfies the attendance
requirement of the present Semester, as applicable. He may seek re-
admission for that Semester when offered next.
iv. Shortage of Attendance below 65% in aggregate shall in NO case be
condoned.
5
v. Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned in any Semester
are not eligible to take their end semester examination of that Semester.
vi. A stipulated fee shall be payable towards condonation of shortage of
attendance.
5. Minimum Academic Requirements
The following academic requirements have to be satisfied in addition to the
attendance requirements mentioned in item No.4.
i. A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic
requirements and earned the credits allotted to each theory or practical
design or drawing subject or project, if he secures not less than 35% (25
out of 70 marks) of marks in the end examination and a minimum of
40% of marks in the sum total of the Midterm evaluation and end
semester examination taken together.
ii. A student shall be promoted from II to III year only if he fulfils the
academic requirement of 37 credits from the following examinations,
 Two regular and one supplementary examinations of I year I Semester
 One Regular and One Supplementary exam of I year II Semester
 one regular examination of II year I Semester irrespective
iii. A student shall be promoted from III year to IV year only if he fulfils the
academic requirements of total 62 credits from the following
examinations,
 Three regular and Two supplementary examinations of I B Tech I
Semester.
 Two regular and two Supplementary examinations for I B Tech II
Semester
 Two regular and one supplementary examinations up to the end of II year I
Semester.
 One regular and one supplementary examinations of II year II Semester.
 One regular examination of III year I Semester.
iv. A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all
200 credits and earn the 200 credits. Marks obtained in all 200 credits
shall be considered for the calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average
(CGPA).
v. In addition to the above 200 credits the student must complete the non
credit courses also. The non-credit courses awarded with a grade of
satisfactory or not satisfactory based on the attendance of the student.
Minimum attendance for the non-credit course is 75%.
6
vi. The student should also register and complete any two value added
courses offered by the Institute.
vii. Students who fail to earn 200 credits as indicated in the course structure
within eight academic years from the year of
their admission shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech. course and their
admission stands cancelled.
6. Course pattern
i. The entire course of study is of four academic years. All the I, II, III and IV
years are of Semester pattern .
ii. A student eligible to appear for the end semester examination in a subject,
but absent or has failed in the end semester examination may reappear for
that subject at the supplementary examination whenever conducted.
iii. When a student is detained due to shortage of attendance in any
Semester, he may be re-admitted into that Semester when it is offered
next, with the academic regulations of the batch into which he gets
readmitted.
iv. When a student is detained due to lack of credits in any year, he may be
eligible to be promoted or for promotion into the next year after fulfillment of
the academic requirements, with the academic regulations of the batch
into which he gets admitted
Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
A student will be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. Degree if
he/she fulfils the following academic regulations:
i) Pursued a course of study for not less than four academic years and
not more than eight academic years.
ii) Registered for 200 credits and secured 200 credits and other Academic
Requirements .
iii) complete the non-credit courses and value added courses as per their
course structure.
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the
award of the degree within eight academic years from the year of their
admission, shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech. Course.
7. CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points:
The absolute grading method is followed, based on the total marks
obtained in internal and external examinations. Grades and grade points
are assigned as per the Table given below
B.Tech Program: The Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the
total marks obtained in internal and external examinations. Grades and
Grade points are assigned as given below
7
Marks Obtained Grade Description Grade Points(GP)
of Grade Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A+ Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 A Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 B Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 C Fair 6.00
>=40 and <49.99 D Pass 5.00
<40 F Remedial
Not Appeared the Exam(s) N Absent
The student is eligible for the award of the B.Tech degree with the class as
mentioned in the Table.
CGPA CLASS
>= 7.5 First Class with Distinction
>= 6.5 and <7.5 First class
>= 5.5 and < 6.5 Second Class
>=5.0 and < 5.5 Pass class
Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
The performance of each student at the end of the each semester is indicated in
terms of SGPA. The SGPA is calculated as below:
8
Where ‗Ci‘ = Number of Credits allotted to particular subject ‗I‘
‗Gi‘ = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded in that subject
‗i‖
‗i‖= 1,2,…..P represent the number of subjects for that particular semester
* SGPA is calculated and awarded for the candidates who pass all the courses
in a semester.
Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) for Entire Programme.
The CGPA is calculated as below:
Assessment of the overall performance of a student is obtained by calculating
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA), which is weighted average of the grade
points obtained in all subjects during the course of study.
Where Ci= Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‗I‖
Gi = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded in
that subject ‗i‖
I= 1,2,….m represent the number of subjects of the entire
program.
Grade lower than D in any subject is not considered for CGPA calculation. The
CGPA is awarded only when the student acquires the required number of credits
prescribed for the program.
Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
e) Award list indicating the marks awarded to the student.
8. Withholding of Results
9
If the student has not paid dues to College, or if any case of indiscipline is
pending against him, the result of the candidate may be withheld and he will not
be allowed to go into the next higher Semester. The award or issue of the
Degree may also be withheld in such cases.
9. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance
or any other academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and
when they become eligible. They have to take up Equivalent subjects, as
substitute subject in place of repetition of subjects as decided by the Institute
Academic Committee.
10. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each Semester shall be 90 instruction
days.
11. There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission
process.
12. The decision of the Institute Academic Committee will be final in respect
of equivalent subjects for those students who are transferred from
other colleges. The procedure for permitting students to transfer from
other colleges will be decided by the principal / Institute Academic
Committee keeping the Government Rules in view.
13. General
i. Where the words ―he‖, ―him‖, ―his‖, occur in the regulations, they include
―she‖, ―her‖, ―hers‖.
ii. The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
iii. In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arises in the above rules and
regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
iv. The College may change or amend any or all of the academic regulations or
syllabi at any time and the changes or amendments made shall be applicable
to all the students concerned with effect from the dates notified by the College.
14. Academic Regulations for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2013-2014)
(i) A student shall register for all 150 credits and earn all the 150 credits. Marks
obtained in all 150 credits shall be considered for the calculation of the class.
(ii) A student who fails to earn 150 credits as indicated in the course structure
within six academic years from the year of their admission shall forfeit their
seat in B.Tech. programme and their admission stands cancelled.
(iii) The same attendance regulations are adopted as that of B.Tech. Four year
degree course.
10
(iv) A student shall be promoted from third year to fourth year only on fulfilling the
academic requirements of securing 37 credits from the following examinations.
a. Two regular and one supplementary examination of II year I Semester
b. One regular and one supplementary examination of II year II
Semester
c. One regular examination of III year I Semester.
In case of getting detained for want of credits the student may make up the
credits through supplementary exams of the above exams before the date of
commencement of class work for IV year I Semester.
(v) All other regulations as applicable to B.Tech. four year degree course will hold
good for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme).
15. Malpractice Rules
Disciplinary Action for Malpractices/Improper Conduct in Examinations
Nature of Malpractices/Improper Punishment
conduct
If the candidate:
1. (a) Possesses or keeps accessible in Expulsion from the examination hall and
examination hall, any paper, note cancellation of the performance in that
book, programmable calculators, Cell subject only.
phones, pager, palm computers or
any other form of material concerned
with or related to the subject of the
examination (theory or practical) in
which he is appearing but has not
made use of (material shall include
any marks on the body of the
candidate which can be used as an
aid in the subject of the examination)
11
(b)Gives assistance or guidance or Expulsion from the examination hall and
receives it from any other candidate cancellation of the performance in that
orally or by any other body language subject only of all the candidates
methods or communicates through involved. In case of an outsider, he will
cell phones with any candidate or be handed over to the police and a
persons in or outside the exam hall in case is registered against him.
respect of any matter.
2. Has copied in the examination hall Expulsion from the examination hall and
from any paper, book, programmable cancellation of the performance in that
calculators, palm computers or any subject and all other subjects the
other form of material relevant to the candidate has already appeared
subject of the examination (theory or including practical examinations and
practical) in which the candidate is project work and shall not be permitted
appearing. to appear for the remaining
examinations of the subjects of that
Semester/year.
The Hall Ticket of the candidate is to
be cancelled.
3. Impersonates any other candidate in The candidate who has impersonated
connection with the examination. shall be expelled from examination hall.
The candidate is also debarred and
forfeits the seat. The performance of the
original candidate who has been
impersonated, shall be cancelled in all
the subjects of the examination
(including practicals and project work)
already appeared and shall not be
allowed to appear for examinations of
the remaining subjects of that
semester/year. The candidate is also
debarred for two consecutive semesters
from class work and all end semester
examinations. The continuation of the
course by the candidate is subject to
the academic regulations in connection
12
with forfeiture of seat. If the imposter is
an outsider, he will be handed over to
the police and a case is registered
against him.
4. Smuggles the Answer book or Expulsion from the examination hall and
additional sheet or takes out or cancellation of performance in that
arranges to send out the question subject and all the other subjects the
paper during the examination or candidate has already appeared
answer book or additional sheet, including practical examinations and
during or after the examination. project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class work
and all end semester examinations. The
continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the academic
regulations in connection with forfeiture
of seat.
5. U s e s o b j e c t i o n a b l e , a b u s i v e o r C a n c e ll a t i o n o f t h e p e r f o r m a n c e i n t h a t
offensive language in the answer subject.
paper or in letters to the examiners or
writes to the examiner requesting him
to award pass marks.
6. Refuses to obey the orders of the In case of students of the college, they
Chief Superintendent/Assistant – shall be expelled from examination halls
Superintendent / any officer on duty and cancellation of their performance in
or misbehaves or creates disturbance that subject and all other subjects the
of any kind in and around the candidate(s) has (have) already
examination hall or organizes a walk appeared and shall not be permitted to
out or instigates others to walk out, or appear for the remaining examinations
threatens the officer-in charge or any of the subjects of that semester/year.
person on duty in or outside the The candidates are also debarred and
examination hall of any injury to his forfeit their seats. In case of outsiders,
person or to any of his relations they will be handed over to the police
whether by words, either spoken or and a police case is registered against
written or by signs or by visible them.
representation, assaults the officer-
in-charge, or any person on duty in or
outside the examination hall or any of
13
his relations, or indulges in any other
act of misconduct or mischief which
result in damage to or destruction of
property in the examination hall or
any part of the College campus or
engages in any other act which in the
opinion of the officer on duty amounts
to use of unfair means or misconduct
or has the tendency to disrupt the
orderly conduct of the examination.
7. Leaves the exam hall taking away Expulsion from the examination hall and
answer script or intentionally tears of cancellation of performance in that
the script or any part thereof inside or subject and all the other subjects the
outside the examination hall. candidate has already appeared
including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class work
and all University examinations. The
continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the academic
regulations in connection with forfeiture
of seat.
8. Possess any lethal weapon or firearm Expulsion from the examination hall and
in the examination hall. cancellation of the performance in that
subject and all other subjects the
candidate has already appeared
including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred and forfeits
the seat.
14
9. If student of the college, who is not a If the student belongs to the college,
candidate for the particular expulsion from the examination hall and
examination or any person not cancellation of the performance in that
connected with the college indulges subject and all other subjects the
in any malpractice or improper candidate has already appeared
conduct mentioned in clause 6 to 8. including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred and forfeits
the seat.
Person(s) who do not belong to
the College will be handed over to
police and, a police case will be
registered against them.
10. Comes in a drunken condition to the Expulsion from the examination hall and
examination hall. cancellation of the performance in that
subject and all other subjects the
candidate has already appeared
including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year.
11. Copying detected on the basis of Cancellation of the performance in that
internal evidence, such as, during subject and all other subjects the
valuation or during special scrutiny. candidate has appeared including
practical examinations and project work
of that semester/year.
12. If any malpractice is detected which
is not covered in the above clauses 1
to 11 shall be reported to the
academic council of the Institute for
further action to award suitable
punishment.
Malpractices identified by squad or special invigilators
Punishments to the candidates as per the above guidelines.
15
Malpractice identified at Spot center during valuation
The following procedure is to be followed in the case of malpractice cases
detected during valuation, scrutiny etc. at spot center.
1) Malpractice is detected at the spot valuation. The case is to be referred to the
malpractice committee. Malpractice committee will meet and discuss/question
the candidate and based on the evidences, the committee will recommend
suitable action on the candidate.
2) A notice is to be served to the candidate(s) involved through the Principal to
his address and to the candidate(s) permanent address regarding the
malpractice and seek explanations.
3) The involvement of staff who are in charge of conducting examinations,
invigilators valuing examination papers and preparing / keeping records of
documents relating to the examinations in such acts (inclusive of providing in
correct or misleading information) that infringe upon the course of natural
justice to one and all concerned at the examinations shall be viewed seriously
and recommended for award of appropriate punishment after thorough
enquire.
4) Based on the explanation and recommendation of the committee action may
be initiated.
5) Malpractice committee:
i. Controller of Examinations Chairman
ii. Assistant controller of Evaluation Member
iii. Chief Examiner of the subject/subject expert Member
iv. Concerned Head of the Department Member
16
Vision and Mission of the Institute
VISION
To be a World Class University providing value-based education,
conducting interdisciplinary research in cutting edge technologies leading to
sustainable socio economic development of the nation
MISSION
 To produce technically competent and socially responsible engineers,
managers and entrepreneurs who will be future ready.
 To involve students and faculty in innovative research projects linked with
industry, academic and research institutions in India and abroad.
 To use modern pedagogy for improving the teaching-learning process.
Vision and Mission of the Department
VISION
To develop Civil Engineering Department as a Centre of excellence for imparting
value based education to the students at undergraduate and post-graduate level to
meet industry needs and to develop as a major research center meeting national and
international standards.
MISSION
 To impart in-depth and up-to-date knowledge of Civil Engineering concepts
with focus on character enhancement, leadership qualities, effective
communication, social responsibility and pursuit of lifelong learning and
professional development.
 To provide a platform to the students to engage in original research work in
association with faculty.
17
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
I To provide students with a solid foundation in Basic Sciences, Mathematics
to analyze, synthesize and evaluate the information to achieve expertise in
core areas of Civil Engineering.
II To equip students with modern professional abilities such as effective
communication, collaborative work in diverse teams, ethical decision
making, successful management of personal and professional career
objectives and passion for continuous development through lifelong
learning.
III To prepare the students to achieve high level technical expertise in the fields
of Environmental Engineering, Geo- Technical Engineering, Structural
Engineering, Transportation Engineering, Water Resources Engineering
and to excel in the design and construction of various components or
systems of Civil Engineering.
IV To provide expertise through learning advanced courses in various streams
of Civil Engineering, by offering elective subjects with a view to make the
students capable to pursue higher studies and research.
V To provide opportunities for students to learn multidisciplinary subjects such
as Elements of Electrical and Mechanical Engineering, C Programming &
Data Structures, and other open electives to make them a complete
Engineer
VI To establish acquaintance with the practical implementation of the theoretical
concepts through laboratories, by bringing the real world into the
academics through virtual industry labs, and to enhance experimental skills
of students even beyond curriculum and encouraging them to carryout mini
and major projects.
VII To prepare the students to continue their professional development based on
their awareness of professional society activities, professional licensure
requirements and opportunities for further education in graduate school.
18
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
Programme Outcomes (POs)
The program outcomes are:
a: Engineering Knowledge: The student is capable of applying the principles of
basic sciences and mathematics in learning the Civil Engineering subjects.
Graduates will be proficient in the core principles of Civil Engineering as they pertain
to the sub-fields of Structural Engineering, Water Resources Engineering,
Transportation Engineering, Geotechnical Engineering and Environmental
Engineering and will be able to apply these principles in engineering practice.
b: Problem Analysis: The Graduates will possess critical thinking skills, problem
solving abilities and familiarity with the computational procedures essential to the
field.
c: Design & Development of Solutions: The student is able to plan, analyse,
design and look after the construction of various types of Civil Engineering structures
with appropriate consideration for public health and safety and cultural, societal and
environmental considerations.
d: Conduct investigations of complex problems: The student will use research
based knowledge and research methods to design, conduct experiments and to
analyze and interpret experimental data.
e: Modern Tool Usage: The student will get hands on training in the various Modern
Civil Engineering software and modern equipment.
f: The Engineer and Society: The Students will apply reasoning informed by the
appropriate knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues
and the consequent responsibilities relevant to Civil Engineering practice.
g: Environment and Sustainability: As the students possess substantial knowledge
in multi- disciplinary subjects, he will be able to plan the various projects well keeping
in view of its environmental effects on other related fields.
h: Ethics: The student will apply ethical principles and commitment to profession and
responsibilities of their profession.
i: Individual and Team work: The Graduate is Capable of working productively as
individual, as member or leader in driver set teams and in multi -disciplinary settings.
j: Communication: The Student will excel in expressing ideas, writing technical
reports with good communication skills and managerial skills.
k: Project Management and Finance: The Graduates will demonstrate knowledge
and understanding of the critical issues for professional practice such as the
procurement of works, interaction with contractors during the construction phase of a
project and the financial managerial capabilities.
l: Life-Long learning: The student will maintain an awareness of contemporary
issues and will contribute to the well- being of the community with life-long learning in
the broadest context of ever growing technology.
19
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE
STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
MTH1101 Mathematics – I 3 1 3
PHY1101 Engineering Physics 3 1 3
CHE1102 Chemistry of Engineering Materials 3 0 3
Computer Programming & Data
ITD1101 3 1 3
Structures
CED1101 Engineering Mechanics - I 4 1 4
Elements of Electrical & Mechanical
EEE1130 3 0 3
Engineering
CED1102 Engineering Graphics – I 2 3 2
Computer Programming & Data
ITD1201 0 3 2
Structures Lab
Engg. Physics and Engg.Chemistry
EPC1201 0 3 2
Lab
Total 21 13 25
20
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
MTH1102 Mathematics – II
3 1 3
MTH1104 Numerical Analysis & Linear 3 1 3
Programming
PHY1102 Physics of Materials
3 1 3
ENG1101 English
3 0 3
CHE1101 Engineering Chemistry
3 0 3
CED1103 Engineering Mechanics - II
4 1 4
CED1104 Engineering Graphics – II
2 3 2
MED1202 Work Shop Practice
0 3 2
ENG1203 English Language Communication
0 3 2
Skills Laboratory
Total 21 13 25
 T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
21
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
CED1105 Environmental Studies 3 1 3
CED1106 Building Materials, Construction & 3 1 3
Planning
CED1107 Strength of Materials - I 4 1 4
CED1108 Surveying 3 1 3
CED1109 Fluid Mechanics 4 1 4
CMS1101 Business Economics & Financial 4 0 4
Analysis
CED1201 Fluid Mechanics Lab 0 3 2
CED1202 Surveying Field Work 0 3 2
NCC1101 Human Values and Professional Ethics 2 Non Credit
Audit Course
Total : 23 11 25
22
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Subject Name Lectures T/P/D CREDIT
Code
MTH1106 Probability & Statistics 3 1 3
CED1110 Strength of Materials – II 4 1 4
CED1111 Hydraulics & Hydraulic 4 1 4
Machines
CED1112 Concrete Technology 4 0 4
CED1113 Structural Analysis – I 4 1 4
CED1114 Engineering Hydrology 3 0 3
CED1203 Hydraulics & Hydraulic 0 3 2
Machines Lab
CED1204 Material Testing Lab 0 3 2
Total : 22 10 26
23
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING
III YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Subject Name Lectures T/P/D CREDIT
Code
CED1115 Design of Reinforced Concrete 4 1 4
Structures
CED1116 Engineering Geology 3 0 3
CED1117 Irrigation Engineering 3 1 3
CED1118 Geotechnical Engineering – I 4 0 4
CED1119 Structural Analysis – II 4 1 4
CED1205 Engineering Geology Lab 0 3 2
Computer Aided Drafting of
CED1206 0 3 2
Buildings
CED1207 Concrete Lab 0 3 2
NCC1102 Soft Skills and Personality 2 Non Credit
Development Audit Course
Total : 20 12 24
24
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING
III YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
CED1120 Design of Steel Structures 4 1 4
CED1121 Environmental Engineering 4 0 4
CED1122 Geotechnical Engineering – II 4 0 4
CED1123 Transportation Engineering 4 1 4
CED1124 Estimating & Costing 4 1 4
CED1208 Geotechnical Engineering Lab 0 3 2
CED1209 Transportation Engineering
0 3 2
Lab
ENG1204 Advanced English 0 3 2
Communication Skills
Laboratory
Total : 20 12 26
25
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING
IVYEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Subject Name Lectu T/P/D Credi
Code res ts
CED1125 Finite Element Methods 4 0 4
CED1126 Elements of RS &GIS 4 0 4
CED1127 Environmental Impact Assessment 4 0 4
Elective-I
CED1128 Earthquake Resistant Design of Buildings
CED1129 Advanced Structural Analysis
CED1130 Advanced Structural Design
CED1131 Ground Water Development &
CED1132 Management Design and Drawing of
CED1133 Hydraulic Structures
CED1134 Traffic Engineering 4 0 4
CED1135 Airport Planning & Design
CED1136 Advanced Foundation Engineering
CED1137 Ground Improvement Techniques
CED1138 Solid Waste Management
CED1139 Air Pollution &Control
Industrial waste &Waste Water
Management
Open Elective
MED1163 Optimization techniques
CSE1130 Relational Database Management Systems 3 0 3
EEE1127 Renewable Energy Sources
CED1147 Disaster Management
CSE1121 Cyber Security
CED1210 CAD & GIS Lab 0 3 2
CED1211 Environmental Engineering Lab 0 3 2
CED1301 Industry Oriented Mini Project 0 6 2
Total : 19 12 25
26
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING
IV YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Lectures T/P/D Credits
Subject Subject Name
Code
Elective – II
CED1140 Watershed Management
CED1141 Construction Technology & Project
4 0 4
Management
CED1142 Principles of Water quality
Management
CED1143 Geospatial Technology &
Applications
Elective – III
CED1144 Prestressed Concrete
CED1145 Water Resources Planning &
4 0 4
Management
CED1146 Pavement Analysis, Design &
Evaluation
CED1302 Technical Seminar 0 3 2
CED1303 Comprehensive viva 0 3 2
CED1304 Project work 0 18 12
Total : 08 24 24
27
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech– I sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MTH1101) MATHEMATICS – I
(Advanced Calculus)
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Understand Taylor‘s theorem and its application to maxima and minima
of f(x,y)
• Understand the process of curve sketching
• Understand multiple integrals and its applications
• Apply the integral theorems of vector calculus
Course Outcomes:
At the end of the course Student will be able to
• Solve problems involving the maxima and minima of f(x,y).
• Apply the curve tracing concepts to find arc length of curves, surface area,
and volume of solids of revolution.
• Evaluate the multiple integrals using appropriate change of variables.
• Verify the integral theorems.
UNIT - I
Differential Calculus
Mean value theorems - Rolle ‘s Theorem, Lagrange‘s theorem, Cauchy‘s theorem,
and generalized mean value theorem (Taylor‘s Theorem) (statements only),
Curvature and Radius of curvature, Curve tracing – Cartesian, polar and parametric
curves (standard curves only)
UNIT- II
Functions of Several Variables
Partial differentiation; Euler‘s theorem,Functional dependence; Jacobian; Maxima
and Minima of functions of two variables with constraints and without constraints.
UNIT - III
Improper integrals and multiple integrals
Improper Integrals; Beta, Gamma, and Error integrals - Properties and simple
applications. Applications of integration to lengths, volumes and surface areas in
cartesian and polar coordinates. Multiple integrals - double and triple integrals,
change of variables ( Cylindrical and Spherical polar coordinates) and change of
order of integration.
UNIT - IV
Vector calculus
28
Introduction to vector and scalar functions; gradient, curl, divergence, and their
related properties of sums and products; Laplacian and second order operators;
Vector integration - line integral, work done, potential function; Area, surface, and
volume integrals; Statements of Vector integral theorems and their verification
(without proofs) - Green‘s theorem, Stoke‘s theorem, and Gauss divergence
theorem.
UNIT- V
Elementary analysis
Sequences and series - convergence and divergence, ratio test, comparison test,
integral test, Cauchy‘s root test, Raabe‘s test (statements only for the tests), and
absolute and conditional convergence.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Calculus and Analytic Geometry by Thomas and Finney, 9th edition;
Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Higher Engineering Mathematics – by Dr.B. S. Grewal, 40th edition,
Publisher: Khanna Publishers.
3. Schaum‘s Outline of Vector Analysis by Murray R. Spiegel (2011); 2nd
edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Elementary Analysis: The Theory of Calculus by Kenneth Ross; Publisher:
Springer
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition;
Publisher: John Wiley.
29
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE-I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(PHY1101) ENGINEERING PHYSICS
Course Objectives: Students will be able to
• Supplement and enhance the basic concepts in Physics essentially
required in the study of materials..
• Know and understand some important applications of lasers and optical
fibers.
• Learn the importance of wave and particle nature of light and to understand
the behavior of an electron in one dimensional potential box.
• Understand the effect of temperature on Fermi Dirac Distribution Function
and also learn the behavior of an electron in a periodic potential, the new
concept of Effective mass of an electron and to know the classification of
materials into conductors, semiconductors and insulators.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course, the students will be able to:
• Understand the Phenomenon of Interference, Diffraction& Polarization.
• Learn the principle, working, construction and energy mechanism of
various lasers and their applications. Explain the light signal propagation and
attenuation through optical fiber.
• Understand the differences between particle and wave nature, energy
states in one dimensional potential box and also the Consequences of
Heisenberg‘s Uncertainty principle.
• Understand the one dimensional Schrodinger‘s wave equation and the
effect of temperature on Fermi-Dirac Distribution, Kronig Penny model.
UNIT-I
Interference
Superposition principle, resultant amplitude, coherence, methods to obtain coherent
sources, interference, Young‘s double slit experiment, interference in thin films by
reflection, Newton‘s rings Experiment
Diffraction-I
Distinguish between Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction, diffraction at single slit
(Qualitative and Quantitative (Phasors approach)).
UNIT-II
Diffraction-II
Diffraction at double slit, circular aperture, and multiple slits (grating)( Qualitative
Approach), Resolution of spectral lines, Rayleigh criterion, and resolving power of
grating.
Polarization
30
Polarization phenomenon, Brewster‘s Law and Malus law, examples, types of
polarization, double refraction, Nicol prism, Quarter and Half wave plates
UNIT- III
Lasers
Characteristics of Lasers – Spontaneous and Stimulated Emission of radiation, meta
stable state, population inversion, lasing action, Einstein‘s coefficients and relation
between them –– Ruby Laser – Helium-Neon Laser –Semiconductor Laser –
Applications of lasers.
Fiber optics
Principle of optical fiber and properties – Acceptance angle and acceptance cone –
Numerical aperture –Types of fibers and refractive index profiles – Qualitative
analysis of attenuation in optical fibers –Application of optical fibers.
UNIT-IV
Elements of statistical mechanics
Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics (non-mathematical
treatment); Photon gas, Planck‘s law of black body radiation; Deduction of Wien‘s
law and Rayleigh-Jeans law from Plank‘s law.
Principles of quantum mechanics
Waves and particles – De Broglie hypothesis - Matter waves - Davisson and Germer
experiment –Heisenberg‘s uncertainty principle - Schrodinger Wave Equation –
Wave function and its Physical Significance - Particle in one dimensional potential
box(wave functions, probability densities and energy states).
UNIT - V
Free electron fermi gas
Energy levels in one dimension, Effect of temperature on the Fermi-Dirac
distribution, Free electron gas in three dimensions, electrical conductivity & Ohm‘s
law, Electrical Resistivity of Metals (Qualitative).
Band theory of solids
Electron in a periodic potential; Bloch Theorem; Kronig-Penney model (non-
mathematical treatment); Origin of energy band formation in solids; Classification of
materials into conductors, semiconductors & Insulators; and Concept of effective
mass of an electron.
TEXT BOOKS
(1) Physics vol.2, by Halliday, Resnick and Krane; John Wiley & Sons
(2) Concepts of Modern physics by Arthur Beiser, McGraw Hill Inc.
(3) Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel : John Wiley & Sons
REFERENCE BOOKS
(1) Engineering Physics by R.K.Gaur and S.L.Gupta; Dhanpat Rai and Sons
(2) Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd.
(3) Optics by Ghatak and Thyagarajan, Tata Mc Graw
(4) Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
(5) Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
31
(6) Engineering Physics by Dr M Chandra Shekar and Dr P. Appala Naidu,
VGS Book links.
(7) Introduction to Optical Communication by G. Keiser
(8) Quantum Mechanics by Gupta Kumar Sharma
32
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE-I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(CHE1102) CHEMISTRY OF ENGINEERING MATERIALS
Course Objectives: Students will be able to
• Understand that a sustainable energy supply is needed for promoting
economic development as well as protecting the environment.
• Understanding the significance of various Engineering materials like
cement abrasives, adhesives and composites in structural enhancement of
materials.
• Exposure to refractories and ceramics in industries and most recently,
aerospace technology.
• Familiarize lubricants as a basic and fundamental necessity for the
maintenance of any machines.
Course Outcomes: At the end of the course student will be able to
• Acquire knowledge of the types of fuels, their sources and purification
techniques.
• Understand the manufacturing process of cement, its properties and usage
of abrasives, adhesives and composites in various industrial processes.
• Benefits of refractories as heat-resistant materials and applications of
ceramics in various fields.
• Knowledge of lubricants in regard to their applications in various machines.
Unit – I:
Energy Sources:
Fuels - classification (solid, liquid, gaseous), calorific value of fuel (HCV, LCV),
determination of calorific value by bomb calorimeter; Solid fuels – coal – analysis –
proximate and ultimate analysis and their significance; Liquid fuels – petroleum,
refining of petroleum, cracking, knocking, synthetic petrol – Bergius and Fischer-
Tropsch‘s process. Biofuels- characteristics, biodiesel (preparation, properties and
applications); Gaseous fuels – natural gas, LPG, CNG (composition and uses),
Combustion – problems
UNIT-II
Cement
Types of cement; Chemical constituents and composition of Portland cement;
Manufacturing methods of Portland cement (wet and dry processes); Properties of
cement - Setting & Hardening of cement (reactions); Testing of cement; Decay of
cement; Cement concrete - RCC.
UNIT-III
Engineering materials
33
a) Abrasives & Adhesives - Introduction, classification of abrasives, and their
applications. Criteria of a good adhesive, classification and their
applications.
b) Composites: Need for composites, classification and their applications.
UNIT-IV
Refractories and Ceramics
Refractories: Definition; Classification with examples; Characteristics of a good
refractory; Causes for the failure of a refractory material; Properties of refractories -
refractoriness, RUL test, porosity.
Ceramics: Introduction; Classification, Glazing and Applications of glazed & non
glazed ceramics.
UNIT -V
Lubricants
Criteria of a good lubricant; Classification of lubricants-lubricating oils; Greases or
semisolid lubricants; Solid lubricants; Mechanism of lubrication-fluid film lubrication,
boundary lubrication, and extreme pressure lubrication; Biodegradable lubricants:
types of biodegradable lubricants, advantages and disadvantages of biodegradable
lubricants. Properties of lubricants - viscosity, cloud point, pour point, flash & fire
point, mechanical stability, oiliness, and carbon residue.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, and Jyotsna
Cherukuri; Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain & Monica Jain; Publisher: Dhanpatrai.
3. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara & Mukkanti; Publisher:
S.Chand & Co.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna
2. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Balram Pani; Publisher: Galgotia
Publications Pvt.Ltd.
3. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Shashi Chawla Publisher: Dhanpat rai
&Co
4. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi, Cengage
Learning Publications.
5. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya,
Sulochana Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
34
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech CE, ME& AME -I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(ITD1101) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING AND DATA STRUCTURES
Course Objectives: Students will be able to
• Gain a working knowledge of C data structure programming
• Learn how to write modular, efficient and readable C and data structure
programs
• Utilize pointers to efficiently solve problems
• Utilize searching and sorting concepts to solve problem
• Use functions from the portable C library
Course Outcomes:
• Understand the basic terminology used in computer programming.
• Write, compile and debug programs in C language
• Read, understand and trace the execution of programs .
• Use different data types in a computer program.
• Design programs involving decision structures, loops and functions.
• Explain the difference between call by value and call by reference
• Design programs using searching and sorting techniques.
• Understand the dynamics of memory by the use of pointers
UNIT-I
Introduction to Computers-Computer Systems, Computing Environments, Computer
languages, creating and running programs, Software Development Methods.
UNIT-II
Algorithm / pseudo code, flowchart, program development steps, structure of C
program, identifiers, basic data types, Constants, variables, operators, expressions,
precedence and order of evaluation.
Input-output statements, if and switch statements, loops- while, do-while and for
statements, break, continue, goto and labels, example C programs.
UNIT-III
Functions, basic concepts, parameter passing, storage classes, scope rules, user
defined functions, standard library functions, recursive functions, example C
programs.
Arrays- Basic concepts, one-dimensional and two-dimensional arrays, Character
array, string handling functions, example C programs.
UNIT-IV
Derived types- structures- Basic concepts, nested structures, arrays of structures,
program examples.
pointers- Basic concepts, pointers and functions, pointers and strings, pointers and
arrays, pointers and structures, self referential structures, example C programs.
UNIT-V
35
Searching - Linear and binary search methods, sorting - Bubble sort, selection sort,
Insertion sort.
Introduction to data structures, Dynamic memory allocation, stacks and queues-
implementation using arrays.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Computer science, A structured programming approach using C, B.A.
Forouzan and R.F. Gilberg, Third edition, Thomson.
2. The C Programming Language, B.W. Kernighan, Dennis M.Ritchie,
PHI/Pearson Education
3. C Programming andData structures, E.Balagurusamy,TMH.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Data Structures Using C - A.S.Tanenbaum, Y. Langsam, and M.J. Augenstein,
PHI/Pearson Education.
2. Programming in C - Stephen G. Kochan, III Edition, PearsonEductaion.
3. Data Structures and Program Design in C, R.Kruse, C.L. Tondo, BP Leung,
Shashi M, Second Edition, Pearson Education.
36
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE-I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(CED1101) ENGINEERING MECHANICS - I
Course Objectives:
Student will be able to
• Classify the various types of forces, computes the moment of a force and
draw FBD.
• Know various types of friction and the laws of friction
• Distinguish between centroid, centre of mass and centre of gravity.
• Understand the concept of area moment of inertia and mass moment of
inertia.
Course Outcomes:
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be able
to
• Find the resultant of coplanar concurrent and non-concurrent forces.
• Analyze the bodies on rough horizontal and inclined planes.
• Determine the centroid of composite areas, centre of gravity of composite
bodies.
• Determine the moment of inertia of simple areas and mass MI of simple
bodies.
UNIT-I
Forces
Introduction to Engineering Mechanics – Basic Concepts, Classification of a force
system, Parallelogram law of forces, Triangle law of forces, Polygon law of forces,
Lami‘s theorem, Free Body Diagram, Resultant, Equilibriant, Resultant of coplanar
concurrent forces, Equilibrium of coplanar concurrent forces.
UNIT-II
Moments
Moment of a force, Varignon‘s principle, Parallel forces, Resultant of parallel forces,
Couple, Moment of a couple about any point lying in the plane, Resolution of a force
into a force-couple and viceversa, Resultant of coplanar non-concurrent forces,
Equilibrium of coplanar non-concurrent forces.
UNIT - III
Friction
Types of Friction, Limiting Friction, Laws of Friction, Equilibrium of bodies on rough
horizontal and inclined planes, Ladder friction.
UNIT – IV
Centroid, Centre of Mass, Centre of Gravity
37
Centroids of simple figures (from basic principles) – Centroids of composite figures
and built-up sections, Centre of mass of simple bodies, Centre of gravity of simple
bodies, Centre of gravity of composite bodies, Pappus theorems.
UNIT – V
Area moment of Inertia
Introduction, Inertia, Inertia of areas, Rotation of areas, Radius of gyration, Polar
moment of inertia, Parallel axis theorem, Perpendicular axis theorem, Moments of
inertia of simple figures and composite figures.
Mass Moment of Inertia
Moment of inertia of Masses, Significance, Rotation of mass, Mass moment of inertia
of simple bodies.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering Mechanics by Timoshenko & Young
2. Engineering Mechanics by S.S. Bhavikatti
3. Engineering Mechanics by R.K. Bansal
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Singer‘s Engineering Mechanics by K. Vijaya Kumar Reddy
2. Engineering Mechanics (Statics) by Meriam & Kraige
3. Engineering Mechanics by Tayal
4. Engineering Mechanics by R.K. Rajput
5. Engineering Mechanics by R.S. Khurmi
6. Engineering Mechanics by K.L. Kumar
38
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE-I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(EEE1130) ELEMENTS OF ELECTRICAL & MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
Course Objectives: Students will be able to
• Understand the basic element of Civil Engineering.
• Understand the utilization of electrical energy in illumination and traction
systems.
• Understand the conventional, non-conventional and renewable energy
sources.
• Understands the surface and air vehicles and their parts.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Explain the infrastructure development and surveying principles, materials,
soils.
• Understand the principle of Power Generation using Steam and Hydel
Power Plants.
• Appreciate the utilization of Electrical Energy in heating, welding,
illumination and traction systems.
• Aquire the knowledge of power systems.
UNIT-I
Electrical Power Systems
Electrical power generation concept-A.C Generator-principle; Steam Power Plant
(thermal power plant); Hydel Power Plant (layouts only); Efficiency- Transformer-
principle-need-types; Various methods of power transmission; Losses in power
transmission; Fuse -Substation-batteries-simple problems
UNIT-II
Utilization of Electrical Energy
Electrical heating-advantages-resistance heating-design of heating element-simple
problems-Illumination-definitions-laws of illumination-working of Incandescent lamp
and Fluorescent lamps-Electric Welding-Electric Traction-Block diagram-Simplified
speed-time curve-Energy meter
Elements of Mechanical Engineering
UNIT-III
Power (Energy) Systems
Block diagram of a power system; sources of energy; conventional, non-conventional
and renewable energy, application, resource availability; power produced, torque,
speed, and efficiency; Materials used in turbine shafts, blades, nozzles; diagnostics
and condition monitoring, commercial feasibility of power systems.(Turbine)
UNIT-IV
39
Motor Transport Vehicles –I (Surface)
Road Vehicles – Power plant in vehicles, transmission, steering, chassis, body,
wheels and axles Rail vehicles - Distinction of rail vehicles from road vehicles
UNIT-V
Motor Transport Vehicles –II (Air)
Air vehicles - Aeroplane and its parts
Space vehicles - Rockets, 2 stage, 3 stage and 4 stage rockets, solid and liquid fuels
Sea Vehicles – Power plant, transmission, steering, hull
TEXT BOOKS
1. Principles of Power Systems by V.K.Mehta & Rohit Mehta S.Chand &
Company Ltd
2. Art & Science of Utilization of Electrical Energy by H.Partap Dhanpat Rai & Co
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Utilization of Electrical Energy by E.openshaw Tayler Orient Longman
2. Electrical Power System – Soni, Guptha, Batnagar
3. Gneration and Utilization of Electrical Energy by C.L Wadhwa
40
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE I Sem L T/P/D C
2 3 2
(CED1102) ENGINEERING GRAPHICS - I
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Learn basic Auto Cad skills.
• Learn basic engineering drawing formats.
• Learn various curves used in engineering practice & types of scales.
• Learn orthographic projections and projection of planes & solids.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Draw two dimensional drawings using Auto Cad.
• Draw various types of scales.
• Draw various curves used in engineering practice
• Draw orthographic projections and projection of planes and solids.
UNIT- I
Introduction to Engineering Drawing
Principles of engineering graphics and their significance - Drawing instruments and
their uses -conventions in drawing-lettering – BIS Convention, Different types of
scales, scale of chords.
UNIT – II
Curves Used In Engineering Practice & Their Construction
Ellipse, parabola, hyperbola & rectangular hyperbola-cycloid, epicycloids,
hypocycloid – involutes.
UNIT- III
Orthographic Projection
Points& straight lines inclined to both planes, true lengths& traces.
UNIT- IV
Projection of Planes
Projection of regular planes inclined to both planes - auxiliary projections.
UNIT- V
Projection of Solids
Projection of regular solids-inclined to both planes - auxiliary projections.
TEXT BOOKS :
1. Elementary engineering drawing by N.D.Bhat, Charotar Publishing House
Pvt.Limited
2. Engineering drawing and graphics by Narayana & Kannaiah, Scitech
publishers
3. Engineering graphics for degree by K.C.John, PHI learning Publishers
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Engineering Drawing by M. B. Shah, Pearson Education India
41
2. Engineering Drawing and Graphics by K Venugopal, New Age International
3. Engineering Drawing by Guptha,IK International Pvt.Limited
42
VNR VignanaJyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech CE, ME & AME L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ITD1201) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING AND DATA STRUCTURES
LABORATORY
Course Objectives: Students will be able to
• Gain a working knowledge of C data structure programming
• Learn how to write modular, efficient and readable C and data structure
programs
• Utilize pointers to efficiently solve problems
• Utilize searching and sorting concepts to solve problem
• Use functions from the portable C library
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Understand the basic terminology used in computer programming.
• write, compile and debug programs in C language
• Read, understand and trace the execution of programs .
• Use different data types in a computer program.
• Design programs involving decision structures, loops and functions.
Week 1
1. Write a program that reads three different integers from the keyboard and
prints – sum, average, product, smallest, largest of the numbers.
2. Write a program that reads two integers and prints – difference, quotient
and remainder
3. WAP that reads two integers and determines whether the first is a multiple
of the other
Week 2
1. Write a C program to find the sum of individual digits of a positive integer.
2. Write a C program for Fibonacci sequence.
3. Write a C program to generate the first n terms of the sequence.
4. Write a C program to generate all the prime numbers between 1 and n,
where n is a value supplied by the user.
Week 3
1. Write a C program to calculate the following Sum:
Sum=1-x2/2! +x4/4!-x6/6!+x8/8!-x10/10!
2. Write a C program toe find the roots of a quadratic equation.
Week 4
1. Write C programs that use both recursive and non-recursive functions
i) To find the factorial of a given integer.
ii) To find the GCD (greatest common divisor) of two given integers.
43
iii) To solve Towers of Hanoi problem.
Week 5
1. Write a C program, which takes two integer operands and one operator
from the user, performs the operation and then prints the result. (Consider
the operators +,-,*, /, % and use Switch Statement)
2. Write a program to print a given number [0-1000] in words. For example,
123 as One Hundred and Twenty Three
Week 6
1. WAP to check whether a given number is an Armstrong, Palindrome,
Perfect, Prime, or a Fibonacci Number
2. Write a C program to find both the largest and smallest number in a list of
integers
Week 7
1. Write a C program to generate Pascal‘s triangle.
2. Write a C program to construct a pyramid of numbers.
Week 8
1. Write a C program to calculate
i) Minimum and maximum of an 1-d array
ii) Sorting an array
iii) Searching an array
Week 9
1. Write a C program that uses functions to perform the following:
i) Addition of Two Matrices
ii) Multiplication of Two Matrices
iii) To find the determinant of a 3 by 3 matrix
Week 10
1. Write a C program that uses functions to perform the following operations
using
Pointers:
a. To insert a sub-string in to a given main string from a given position.
ii) To delete n Characters from a given position in a given string.
iii) To reverse a given string
Week 11
1. Write C Programs to implement Structures and Nested structures with
suitable Examples
(Students has to practice with relevant examples taught in the class room)
Week 12
1. Write C Programs using Pointers and Pointer Arithmetic operations
2. Write C Programs using Pointers to structures, Pointers to Arrays and
Pointers to strings
(Students has to practice with relevant examples taught in the class room)
Week 13
44
1. Write C Programs to implement the following sorting algorithms
a. Bubble Sort b. Selection sort c. Insertion Sort
Week 14
1. Write a C program to implement STACK and QUEUE operations using
Arrays
Week 15
1. Write a C programs to implement the following searching techniques.
a. Linear Search b. Binary Search
Week 16 Lab Internal Examination
45
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE-I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(EPC1201) ENGINEERING PHYSICS AND ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
LABORATORY
ENGINEERING PHYSICS LAB
Course Objectives: Students will be able to
 To practically learn interaction of light with matter through physical
phenomena like interference, diffraction and dispersion.
 To expose to the principle of superposition and resonance.
 To demonstrate the formation of standing waves and to understand the
mechanical wave behavior and to determine Rigidity Modulus of different
material s of wires .
 To demonstrate basic discharge phenomenon in capacitors and to know
the characteristics of the circuit elements, like resistors, capacitors and
inductors.
Course Outcomes:
On successful completion of the course, it is expected that student should be able to
 Understand clearly the interference principle in wave theory of light and
able to relate it to the formation of Newton Rings and Obtain a pure
spectrum when light passes through prism
 Understand the formation and propagation of mechanical waves
 Study simple oscillations of a load attached to a string and relate it to
nature of material of string
 Understand the physical significance of time constant and related uses
Any Eight Experiments from the following:
1. Dispersive Power of the material of a Prism using Spectrometer
2. Diffraction Grating (both with Laser and non laser source)
3. Single Slit with laser light
4. Newton‘s Rings
5. Finding thickness of a thin wire or sheet by forming a wedge shaped film
6. Energy gap of a semiconductor material
7. To determine the rigidity modulus of material of a wire
8. Melde‘s experiment
9. Sonometer Experiment
10. AC frequency by sonometer method
11. Numerical Aperture and Acceptance angle of an optical fiber cable
12. Attenuation and Bending losses in optical fiber
13. Stewart Gee‘s experiment
46
14. Characteristics of LED/Laser Diode.
15. Photo cell/ Solar Cel
Book: Essential Practical Lab Manual in Physics: by P.Raghavendra Rao
ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
1. Titrimetry
a) Estimation of hardness of water by EDTA method.
2. Instrumental methods
(i) Conductometry
a) Conductometric titration of strong acid vs strong base
(ii) Colorimetry
a) Estimation of copper by colorimetric method
(iii) pH metry
a) Titration of strong acid vs strong base by pH metry
3. Physical properties
a) Determination of viscosity of sample oil by Redwood viscometer.
4. Preparations:
a) Preparation of soap
b) Preparation of Nano particles.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by S.K.Bhasin and Sudha
Rani; Publisher: Dhanpat Rai.
2. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari and
Jyotsna Cherukuri; Publisher: VGS Book Links.
3. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari,
Jyotsna
` Cherukuri, VGS Book Links, Vijayawada.
47
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CE – II sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MTH1102) MATHEMATICS – II
(Linear Algebra and Ordinary Differential Equations)
Course Objectives: Students will be able to
 Understand the Echolen form and Normal form of a matrix and its applications in
solving linear system of equations.
 Understand the methods of solving first order differential equations and learn
about its applications to L-R and R-C circuits.
 Apply the convolution theorem to evaluate Laplace Transform of the functions.
 Apply Z-Transforms in solving the difference equations.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, it is expected that student
should be able to
 Find the rank using Echolen form and Normal form.
 Solve the problems in first order and second order differential equations.
 Learn Laplace Transform as a tool.
 Evaluate the Z-Transform of the given function
LINEAR ALGEBRA
UNIT-I
Solution of linear systems
Matrices and linear systems of equations - elementary row transformations, Rank,
row Echelon form, and normal form; Solution of linear systems - direct methods - LU
decomposition, LU decomposition from Gauss elimination, and solution of Tri-
diagonal systems by Thomas algorithm; Eigen values, eigen vectors, and their
properties - Liner dependence and independence; Cayley-Hamilton theorem (without
proof) - inverse and powers of a matrix by Cayley-Hamilton theorem, diagonalization
of a matrix, calculation of powers of a matrix; Modal and spectral matrices.
UNIT II
Linear transformations
Real matrices - symmetric, skew symmetric, and orthogonal linear transformation;
Complex matrices - Hermitian, Skew-Hermitian and unitary matrices; Quadratic
forms - reduction of quadratic form to canonical form, rank, positive, negative
definite, semi definite, index, signature, Sylvester law, and singular value
decomposition.
ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
UNIT III
Ordinary differential equations and their applications
Differential equations of first order and first degree - Linear, Bernoulli and exact
differential equation; Applications of differential equations of first order and first
48
degree - Newton‘s law of cooling, Law of natural growth and decay, Orthogonal
trajectories, and basic circuits.
UNIT IV
Differential equations of higher order and their applications
Differential equations of higher order - homogeneous and non-homogenous type,
differential equations of second order and higher order with constant coefficients with
ax ax
right hand side term of the type e , sin (ax), cos (ax), polynomials in x, e
V(x), x V(x), and method of variation of parameters and Euler-Cauchy‘s 2nd order
differential equations, applications to mechanical systems and Simple harmonic
motion.
UNIT V
Laplace transform and application to ODE
Laplace transform of standard functions; Inverse transform-first shifting theorem;
Dirac‘s delta function; Convolution theorem; Periodic function; Differentiation and
integration of transforms; Application of Laplace transforms to ordinary differential
equations.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Differential Equations, with Applications and Historical Notes by George F.
Simmons and John S. Robertson (2008) 2nd Edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw
Hill.
2. A First Course in Differential Equations by Dennis G. Zill; Publisher: Brooks
Cole.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Dennis G. Zill, Warren S. Wright, and
Michael R. Cullen, 4th edition; Publisher: Jones & Bartlett Learning.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition; Publisher:
John Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O‘Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher:
Cengage Learning.
3. Elementary Differential Equations and Boundary Value Problems by William E.
Boyce and Richard C. Diprima; Publisher: Wiley.
4. Linear Algebra and its applications by David C Clay; Publisher: Pearson
Education.
49
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CE – II sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MTH1104) NUMERICAL ANALYSIS AND LINEAR PROGRAMMING
Course objectives: Student should be able to
 Understand the numerical methods for non linear systems, evaluating definite
integrals and ordinary differential equations.
 Understand various methods of interpolation.
 Understand the simplex method and methods to solve the transportation problem.
Course outcomes: On successful completion of the course, it is expected that student
should be able to
 Learn the numerical methods to find a root of algebraic and transcendental
equations.
 Apply the numerical methods to find the solutions of ordinary differential
equations.
 Use simplex method procedure to optimize a linear function.
 Solve transportation problems
NUMERICAL ANALYSIS
UNIT-I
Solutions of non-linear systems
Introduction; Mathematical preliminaries; Solution of algebraic and transcendental
equations – the bisection method, the method of false position, the iteration
method,Newton - Raphson method, and their order of convergence.
UNIT II
Interpolation
Introduction; Errors in polynomial interpolation; Finite differences; Forward
differences; Backward differences; Central differences; Symbolic relations and
separation of symbols; Differences of a polynomial; Newton‘s formulae for
interpolation; Central difference interpolation formulae; Gauss‘s central difference
formulae; Lagrange and Hermite interpolation formulae; Cubic spline interpolation.
UNIT III
Numerical Integration
Trapezoidal rule, Simpson‘s 1/3 rule, and Simpson‘s 3/8 rule.
Numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations
Solution of initial value problems by Taylor‘s series - Picard‘s method of successive
approximations, Euler‘s method, and Runge - Kutta methods; Predictor Corrector
methods - Adams Moulton method, and Milne‘s method.
UNIT IV
Numerical solutions of partial differential equations (PDE)
Introduction; Classification of second order PDE; Approximation of derivatives by
finite difference method; Solution of Laplace equation - Jacobi‘s method, Gauss-
50
Seidal (Leibmann‘s) method, Solution of parabolic equations by explicit and crank
Nicolson implicit scheme method; Solution of hyperbolic equations.
LINEAR PROGRAMMING
UNIT V
Linear programming
linear programming - Basic concepts; -problem formulation, graphical method,
canonical and standard forms of LPP simplex method, Artificial variables techniques-
M method, Transportation problems: Balanced transportation problem-North-West
corner rule, Least cost method, Vogel‘s approximation method and MODI method.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Elementary Numerical Analysis – an algorithmic approach by Samuel D.
Conte and Carl De Boor (2006); 3rd edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Elementary Numerical Analysis by Dr. B.S.Grewal, 4th edition, Publisher:
Khanna Publishers
3. Operations Research: Theory and Applications by Kanthi Swaroop, 4th
edition, Macmillan Publishers India Ltd.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition;
Publisher: John Wiley and Sons.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O‘Neil, 9th Edition;
Publisher: Cengage Lear
51
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE - II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(PHY1102) PHYSICS OF MATERIALS
Course Objectives: Student should be able to
 To learn the structure of solids, crystal systems, packing and arrangement of
particles in crystals, simple planes and directions in solids, defects in crystals
 To learn the properties of magnetic materials and classification, Dielectric
materials
 To learn the concept and applications of superconductors
 To introduce new concepts like surface phenomena and nano science.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, it is expected that student
should be able to
 Identify different crystal types, various planes and directions in crystals and
estimate one dimensional crystal defects
 Learn the magnetic properties of materials & classify the magnetic materials into
Dia, Para and ferro.
 Learn the characteristics, properties and applications of superconductors and
magnetic materials
 Realize surface phenomena are different from bulk; learn methods to estimate
work functions and Compare optical and electron microscopes and learn
principles of SEM & TEM
UNIT -I
Crystal structures
Space lattice – Unit cell – Lattice parameter – Crystal systems – Bravais lattices
Atomic radius – Co-ordination number - Structures and Packing fractions of Simple
Cubic – Body Centered Cubic – Face Centered Cubic crystals – Hexagonal closed
packed crystals - Structures of diamond, NaCl.
Bonding in solids
Force and energy between two approaching atoms, primary and secondary bonds,
binding energy and cohesive energy, Madelung constant, cohesive energy and
Madelung constant for NaCl crystal
UNIT -2:
Directions, planes and x-rd
Miller Indices for Crystal planes and directions – Inter planar spacing of orthogonal
crystal systems –Diffraction of X-rays by crystal planes and Bragg‘s law– Laue
method – Powder method.
Defects in solids
Imperfections in crystals – Point defects (Vacancies, Interstitial and Impurities)
Schottky and Frenkel defects – (with mathematical treatment)- Line imperfections –
52
Edge and Screw dislocation – Burger vector – Surface defects and volume defects
(Qualitative Treatment).
UNIT -3
Magnetic properties of materials
Permeability, Field intensity, magnetic field induction, Magnetization and Magnetic
susceptibility – Origin of magnetic moment, Bohr magneton – Classification of
magnetic materials (Dia, Para and Ferro)- Domain theory of ferromagnetism,
Hysteresis curve – Soft and Hard magnetic materials – Ferrites and their
applications.
UNIT -4
Dielectric properties
Electric dipole, Dipole moment, Dielectric constant, Electronic, Ionic and Orientation
Polarization – Calculation of Polarizibilities – Internal fields – Claussius – Mossotti
equation –Piezo and Ferro electricity
Superconductors
Experimental survey and superconductivity phenomenon, – Meissner effect – Critical
fields and Persistent currents, Type I and Type II superconductors - London
equations- flux quantization, Applications of Superconductors.
UNIT -5
Surface physics
Work function, Thermionic emission, Contact Potential, Electron Microscope,
Scanning Tunneling Microscope.
Science & technology of nanomaterials
Origin of nanotechnology – (Basic principles of Nanoscience & Technology) surface
to volume ratio, quantum confinement – Fabrication of nano materials Bottom up
fabrication: sol-gel & combustion methods – Top down fabrication: CVD& PVD
methods– Applications of nanotechnology.
TEXT BOOKS
(1) Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel (Publishers: John
Wiley & Sons)
(2) Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Solid State Physics by A.J.Dekker; Macmillan Publishers India Ltd.
2. Engineering Physics by Dr M Chandra Shekar and Dr P. Appala Naidu,
VGS Book links.
3. Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
4. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
5. Engineering Physics by M.R.Srinivasan, New Age Publishers
6. Solid State Physics by M.A. Wahab.
53
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech (Common to all Branches) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(ENG1101) ENGLISH
Introduction
This is the age of information and communication technologies. Engineers and
technical professionals need to convey technical information in English for various
purposes.
Besides learning general English as an international language, engineering students
need to be equipped with adequate writing ability so that they can communicate
technical information clearly on at least a basic level. A good English writing
proficiency can be a contributing factor to professional recognition and career
prospects. This course teaches those writing strategies that scientists, engineers,
and others will need in order to write successfully on the job. It initiates the students
into Technical Writing. The purposes of technical writing are to inform and persuade.
This program aims to train students in writing clear, concise and effective English.
This Syllabus is therefore, a Pragmatic English Writing Program for engineering
students with intermediate proficiency. The program covers a syllabus outline and
instructional approaches on basic writing skills with particular reference to technical
writing.
Objectives: Student should be able to
• To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for advanced writing and
speaking.
• To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns and
grammatical constructions required of in technical writing.
• To acquaint the students with the writing process, beginning with
paragraph writing. This would prepare them for academic and workplace
writing.
• Equip the students with Oral Communication Skills.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, it is expected that
student should be able to
• Comprehend technical writing produced in the engineering profession
• Understand the writing process and create logical paragraphs
• Use infrastructural patterns in writing and speaking
Methodology
A Task-based, process oriented methodology will be used by the teachers to give a
practical orientation to the teaching of language. An inductive approach will be used
to demonstrate the use of language in context. This should enable the students to
internalize the language structures and vocabulary used in context. Students will be
54
exposed to numerous examples and ample practice will be given in the contextual
use of language structures.
Syllabus Outline
UNIT-I : Review of Grammar
i) Common Errors v) Use of Articles and Prepositions
ii) Subject-Verb Agreement vi) Conjunctions
iii) Adverbs vii) pronoun reference
iv) Transitional elements
UNIT-II : Prose 1
1. Heaven‘s Gate by Pico Iyer
2. The Connoisseur by Nergis Dalal
UNIT-III Reading and Writing Skills
i) Reading Comprehension -- Skimmimg & scanning
ii) Reading Comprehension -- Intensive reading
iii) Reading Comprehension -- Critical Analysis
iv) Paragraph Writing
v) Letter Writing
vi) Memo Writing
UNIT-IV : Prose 2
1. The Cuddalore Experience by Anu George
2. The Odds Against Us by Satyajit Ray
UNIT-V : Advanced Writing
1. Comparison and Contrast Pattern
2. Cause and Effect Pattern
3. Classification
4. Analogy
5. Problem-Solution Pattern
Prescribed Text Books
1. Enjoying Everyday English by A. Ramakrishna Rao
2. Effective Technical Communication by Ashraf Rizvi
3. Technical Writing Process and Product by Gerson Sharon J. and
Steven Gerson. 3rd edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. M. Raman and S. Sharma, 2004; Technical Communication : Principles
and Practices, OUP, (Indian Edition)
2. Blanton, L.L. 1993; Composition Practice, Book 4 ,Second Edition, Heinle
& Heinle Publishers, pp. 54
3. Georges, T.M. 1996; A course in Analytical Writing for Science and
Technology,
http://www.mspiggy.etl.noaa.gov/write/
4. Neufeld, J.K. 1987; A Handbook for Technical Communication, Prentice-
Hall, Inc. pp.20,65-68
55
5. Yalden, J. 1987; Principles of Course Design for Language Teaching,
Cambridge University Press
6. David F. Beer and David McMurrey, Guide to Writing as an Engineer, 2nd
ed., Wiley, 2004, ISBN: 0471430749.
7. Greaney, G.L. 1997; Less is More: Summary Writing and Sentence
Structure in the Advanced ESL Classroom, The Internet TESL Journal,
Vol.III, No.9
http://iteslj.org/Techniques/Greaney-Writing.html
56
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE - II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(CHE1101) ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
Course Objectives: Student should be able to
 Understand electrochemistry which deals with the utilization of electrical energy of
an external source for bringing about a physical or chemical change.
 Knowledge of “Corrosion engineering education” and Usage of polymers in
modern world as an integral part of every human’s life.
 Knowledge of purification techniques and various applications of soft water in
industries.
 Usage of nanomaterials as emerging scientific components with amazing potential
applications in various fields.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, it is expected that student
should be able to
 Visualize the chemical applications of electricity.
 Prevention of corrosion of metals and applications of polymers from domestic
articles to sophisticated scientific and medical instruments.
 Benefits of treated water as source in steam generation and other fields like
production of steel, paper, textiles, atomic energy etc.
 The applicability and greater efficiency of using a material at nanoscale in different
engineering fields.
UNIT-I
Electrochemical cells and batteries
Conductance-factors effecting conductance, conductometric titrations; cells: types of
cells, cell representation, electrode potential; Standard electrode potential;
Electrochemical series; Nernst equation; Reference electrodes – hydrogen, calomel
electrode; Ion selective electrodes (glass electrode & flouride electrode); Numerical
problems.
Batteries
Primary and secondary cells (lead-acid cell; Ni-Cd cell; lithium cells); Applications of
batteries; Fuel cells – methanol – oxygen fuel cells, advantages of fuel cells; Solar
cells - principle, and applications.
UNIT II
Corrosion and its control
Introduction; Causes and effects of corrosion; Different types of corrosion; Theories
of corrosion – chemical, electrochemical corrosion (reactions); Factors affecting
corrosion – nature of metal (galvanic series; over voltage; purity of metal; nature of
oxide film; nature of corrosion product), and nature of environment (effect of
temperature; effect of pH; humidity; effect of oxidant).
57
Corrosion control methods – cathodic protection, sacrificial anode, and impressed
current cathode;
Surface coatings – methods of application on metals (hot dipping; galvanizing;
tinning; cladding; electroplating), and organic surface coatings (paints - constituents
and functions).
UNIT III
Polymers
Introduction; Types of polymerization; Plastics - thermoplastic resins, and thermoset
resins; Compounding & fabrication of plastics; Preparation, properties, and
engineering applications of polyethylene, PVC, PS, Teflon, bakelite, nylon.
Rubber
Natural rubber- processing, vulcanization; Elastomers (Buna-s; Butyl rubber; Thiokol
rubbers); Fiber reinforced plastics (FRP) and their applications.
UNIT IV
Water
Introduction; Hardness - causes, expression of hardness, units, types of hardness,
estimation of temporary & permanent hardness of water, and numerical problems;
Boiler troubles – scale & sludge formation, caustic embrittlement, corrosion, priming
& foaming; Softening of water (Internal & external treatment - lime soda, zeolite, ion
exchange process, and numerical problems); Reverse osmosis and Electro dialysis
(desalination processes).
UNIT V
Nanomaterials
Introduction; Preparation and applications of nanomaterials with special reference to
carbon nanotubes.
Insulators
Classification of insulators; characteristics of thermal & electrical insulators and their
applications; Superconductors - Nb-Sn alloy, YBa Cu O ; Applications of
2 3 7-x
superconductors.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna
Cherukuri; Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain & Monica Jain, Publisher: Dhanpatrai
Publishing Company.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara & Mukkanti; Publisher:
S.Chand & Co.
2. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna
3. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya,
Sulochana Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
4. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi ,Cengage
Learning Publications.
58
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE - II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(CED1103) ENGINEERING MECHANICS - II
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Know the various assumptions in the analysis of trusses and types of
trusses.
• Understand the principle of virtual work and its applications.
• Distinguish between statics and dynamics & kinematics and kinetics
• Understand the work-energy principle and impulse-momentum principle.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Find the member forces in trusses using method of joints and method of
sections.
• Find the reactions in beams and frames using the virtual work principle.
• Solve the kinematics of particles and kinematics of rigid body problems.
• Solve the kinetics of particles and kinetics of rigid body problems
UNIT – I
Trusses
Types of frames – Assumptions for forces in members of a perfect frame, Method of
Joints, Method of Sections, Force table, Cantilever Trusses, Trusses with one end
hinged and the other freely supported on rollers carrying horizontal or inclined loads.
UNIT – II
Virtual work
Concept of virtual work, Principle of virtual work, Application of principle of virtual
work to beams, ladders, framed structures.
UNIT – III
Kinematics
Kinematics of particles - Rectilinear and Curvilinear motions, Projectiles
Kinetics
Kinetics of particles – Newton‘s Second Law, D‘Alembert‘s Principle
UNIT – IV
Work–Energy, Impulse–Momentum method
Work of a force, Principle of Work and Energy, Application of principle of Work-
Energy, Impulse-Momentum Principle, Application of Impulse-Momentum principle to
connected bodies, Kinematics of rigid bodies, Kinetics of rigid bodies.
UNIT – V
Mechanical Vibrations
Definitions, Concepts, Simple harmonic motion, Free vibrations without damping,
Simple pendulum, Free vibrations with damping.
TEXT BOOKS
59
1. Engineering Mechanics by Timoshenko & Young
2. Engineering Mechanics by S.S. Bhavikatti
3. Engineering Mechanics by R.K. Bansal
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Singer‘s Engineering Mechanics by K. Vijaya Kumar Reddy
2. Engineering Mechanics (Dynamics) by Meriam & Kraige
3. Engineering Mechanics by Tayal
4. Engineering Mechanics by R.K. Rajput
5. Engineering Mechanics by R.S. Khurmi
6. Engineering Mechanics by K.L. Kumar
60
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE - II Sem L T/P/D C
2 3 2
(CED1104) ENGINEERING GRAPHICS - II
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Learn Sections and Sectional views of prisms, pyramids, cylinders and
cones.
• Learn development of surfaces of regular solids prisms, pyramids,
cylinders and cones.
• Learn Isometric projections.
• Learn Transformation of Projections & Perspective Projections
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Draw Sections and Sectional views of prisms, pyramids, cylinders and
cones.
• Draw development of surfaces of solids prisms, pyramids, cylinders and
cones.
• Draw Isometric projections.
• Draw Transformation of Projections & Perspective Projections.
UNIT-I
Sections and Sectional Views:
Sections of right regular solids-prisms, pyramids, cylinders and cones – auxiliary
views
Development of Surfaces
Development of surfaces of right regular solids prisms, pyramids, cylinders and
cones.
UNIT-II
Isometric Projections:
Principles of isometric projections, Isometric scale, isometric views, conventions,
isometric views of lines, planes, simple solids.
UNIT-III
Tranformation Of Projections:
Conversion of isometric views to orthographic views-conventions and vice versa.
UNIT-IV
Perspective Projections:
Perspective view of points, lines, plane figures and simple solids, vanishing point
method & visual ray method
UNIT-V
Introduction To Auto Cad
Classic screen layout of Auto CAD , function keys, drawing entities. Drafting Aids,
editing of a drawing (Modify commands), symbol library.
61
TEXT BOOKS :
1. Elementary engineering drawing by N.D.Bhat, Charotar Publishing House
Pvt.Limited
2. Engineering drawing and graphics by Narayana & Kannaiah, Scitech
publishers
3. Engineering graphics for degree by K.C.John, PHI learning Publishers
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Engineering Drawing by M. B. Shah, Pearson Education India
2. Engineering Drawing and Graphics by K Venugopal, New Age International
3. Engineering Drawing by Guptha,IK International Pvt.Limited
62
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE - II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(MED1202) WORK SHOP PRACTICE
Course Prerequisites: Student should be able to
 study/demonstrate the concepts of computer
 conduct the experiments related to production engineering technology.
 demonstrate the usage of power tools, CNC lathe and machine shop for
different exercises
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, it is expected that
student should be able to
 Identify, assemble, dissemble, install and write commands for a given
configuration of a computer.
 Develop the own components using the techniques of carpentry, tin
smithy, forging, etc. listed in trades for exercises.
 Work out the given models in machine shop and CNC lathe.
1. TRADES FOR EXERCISES:
At least two exercises from each trade:
1. Carpentry
2. Fitting
3. Tin-Smithy
4. Black Smithy
5. House-wiring
6. Plumbing
2. TRADES FOR DEMONSTRATION & EXPOSURE:
1. Power tools in construction, wood working.
2. Machine Shop, Foundry, Welding
3. IT WorkShop-1:
Computer hardware, identification of parts, Disassembly, Assembly of computer to
working condition, Simple diagnostic exercises.
IT workshop-II: Installation of Operating system windows and Linux simple
diagnostic exercises.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Work shop Manual - P.Kannaiah/ K.L.Narayana/ Scitech Publishers.
2. Workshop Manual by Venkat Reddy.
3. Engineering Workshop Practice – V Ramesh Babu, VRB Publishers Pvt.
Ltd.
63
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CE – II sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
The English language Communication Skills Lab aims to provide practice in all the
four skills of LSRW, with a special emphasis on listening and speaking skills.
Course Objectives:
 Provide ample practice in LSRW skills.
 Provide practice in grammatical construction, structural patterns, word usage and
improve comprehension abilities in the students.
 Train students to use neutral pronunciation through phonetic sounds, symbols,
stress and intonation.
 Enable students to transfer information from verbal to graphic representation and
vice versa.
 Train students to use effective language for oral presentations, public speaking,
role play and situational dialogue.
Course Outcomes:
 Comprehend spoken and written discourse.
 Speak fluently with neutral pronunciation and exhibit interpersonal skills.
 Write accurately, coherently and lucidly making appropriate use of words
depending on context and present data clearly.
 Introduce one self to people and be able to speak extempore.
( ENG1203 ) ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
Syllabus for Lab Sessions
Unit-1:Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar : Nouns and Pronouns; Articles; The Present Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 1
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: Introduction of Self and others
Unit 2: Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar : Concord; Adjectives; The Past Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 2
3. Listening Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Seeking and Giving Information, Giving and Taking
Instructions
Unit-3: Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar --- adverbs, conjunctions, Prepositions; The Future Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 3
3. Telephoning Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Role Play/ Situational Dialogues
Unit-4: Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar ---- Active and Passive Voice; Language Analysis
64
2. Vocabulary : Lesson 4
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: i) JAM/ Short Talk ii) Information Transfer
a) Data Analysis
b) Interpretation of Graph
Unit-5: Multimedia Lab :
1. Introduction to Technical Writing
A. Definition of a Technical Term
B. Description of a Mechanism
C. Description of a Technical Process
2. Vocabulary : Lesson 5
Communication Skills Lab : Presentation Skills : Oral Presentation
Multimedia Lab Requirements
The English Language Lab shall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Lab for 60 students with 60 systems, one
master console, LAN facility and English language software for self- study
by learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Lab with movable chairs and audio-visual aids
with a P.A System, a T. V., a digital stereo –audio & video system and
camcorder etc.
System Requirement (Hardware component):
Computer network with Lan with minimum 60 multimedia systems with the
following specifications:
iv) P – IV Processor
a) Speed – 2.8 GHZ
b) RAM – 512 MB Minimum
c) Hard Disk – 80 GB
v) Headphones of High quality
5. Suggested Software:
The software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above should
be procured and used.
Suggested Software:
 Clarity Pronunciation Power – part II
 Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
 DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill
Practice.
 Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
65
 TOEFL & GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO & BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE by
CLIFFS)
Multimedia Lab Requirements
Minimum Requirement:
The English Language Lab shall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Lab for 60 students with 60 systems, one
master console, LAN facility and English language software for self- study
by learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Lab with movable chairs and audio-visual aids
with a P.A System, a T. V., a digital stereo –audio & video system and
camcorder etc.
System Requirement (Hardware component):
Computer network with Lan with minimum 60 multimedia systems with the
following specifications:
iv) P – IV Processor
a) Speed – 2.8 GHZ
b) RAM – 512 MB Minimum
c) Hard Disk – 80 GB
v) Headphones of High quality
5. Suggested Software:
The software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above should
be procured and used.
Suggested Software:
o Clarity Pronunciation Power – part II
o Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
o DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill
Practice.
o Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
o TOEFL & GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO & BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE
by CLIFFS)
66
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(CED1105) ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Develop an understanding of the necessity of protection of environment
• Develop an understanding of Natural resources
• Develop an understanding of Biodiversity
• Develop an understanding of Global Environmental problems
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge on environment
• Acquire the knowledge of various Natural Resources
• Develop skills in understanding of various environmental problems
• Develop skills to protect the Environment
UNIT-I
Introduction, Definition, scope and importance, Ecosystems: Introduction, types,
characteristic features, structure and functions of ecosystems. Bio geo chemical
cycle, Classification of Eco system.
UNIT-II
Natural Resources :classification of Resources, Land resources, Land as resource,
Common property resources, Land degradation, Soil erosion and desertification,
Effects of modern agriculture, fertilizer –pesticide problems, Forest resources, Use
and over-exploitation.
Mining and dams – their effects on forest and tribal people, Water resources, Use
and over- utilization of surface and groundwater, Floods, droughts, Water logging
and salinity, Dams –benefits and costs, Conflicts over Water. Energy resources,
Energy resources.
UNIT III
Bio-diversity and its conservation, Value of bio-diversity -consumptive and productive
use, social, ethical, aesthetic and option values, Bio-geographical classification of
India – India as a mega diversity habitat, Threats to bio-diversity –Hot-spots, habitat
loss, poaching of wild life, loss of species, seeds, etc. Conservation of bio-diversity –
Insitu and Ex-situ conservation.
UNIT IV
Environmental Pollution –Local and Global Issues,Nature of thermal pollution and
nuclear hazards, Global warming, Acid rain,Ozone depletion., Environmental case
studies:.
UNIT-V
Environmental Problems in India,Drinking water, sanitation and public health,Effects
of the activities on the quality of environment, Water scarcity and groundwater
67
depletion,Controversies on major dams – resettlement and rehabilitation of people:
problems and concerns,Rain water harvesting, cloud seeding and watershed
management. Economy and Environment,The economy and environment
interaction,Economics of development, preservation and conservation, Sustainability:
theory and practices,Limits to growth,Equitable use of resources for sustainable life
styles, Environmental Impact Assessment.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Environmental studies-A.Y.Anjaneyulu
2. Environmental studies-Deeksha dave
3. Environmental sciences and management-Venugopal
68
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(CED1106) BUILDING MATERIALS, CONSTRUCTION & PLANNING
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Will list the construction material.
• know about the construction techniques
• understands the building bye-laws
• Know insights in to smart building materials
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Understand the Basic terminology that is used in the industry
• Understand different building materials ,properties and their uses
• Understands the Prevention of damage measures and good workmanship
• Understands the properties of building materials and services
UNIT – I
Stones and Bricks, Tiles
Building stones – classification and quarrying – properties – structural requirements
– dressing. Bricks – composition of Brick earth – manufacture and structural
requirements.
UNIT – II
Cement & admixtures, wood, aluminium, steel, building components
Ingredients of cement – manufacture – field & lab tests ;Admixtures – mineral &
chemical admixtures – uses, Wood – structure – types and properties – seasoning –
defects; steel & aluminum, Lintels, Arches, walls, stair cases – types of floors, types
of roofs – flat, curved, trussed; foundations – types; Damp Proof Course; Joinery –
doors – windows
UNIT – III
Masonry and finishings, formwork
Brick masonry – types – bonds; Stone masonry – types; Composite masonry – brick
– stone masonry; concrete, reinforced brick.;Finishes – Plastering, pointing, painting,
claddings – types – tiles- ACP, Requirements – Standards – Scaffolding – Design;
Shoring, Underpinning.
UNIT – IV
Building services
Plumbing Services, Water Distribution, Sanitary – Lines & Fittings; Ventilators:
Functional requirements systems of ventilators. Air conditioning – Essentials and
Types; Acoustics – characteristic – absorption – Acoustic design; Fire protection –
Fire hazards
UNIT – V
Building planning
69
Principles of Building Planning, classification of buildings and Building by laws.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Building Materials and Construction-Arora & Bindra, Dhanpat Roy Publications
2. Building Construction by B.C.Punmia, Ashok Kumar Jain and Arun Kuma Jain-
Laxmi Publications(P) ltd, New Delhi.
3. Elements of Civil Engineering Anurag Kandya Charotar publishing house
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Building Materials by Duggal , New Age International
2. Building Construction by PC Verghese PHI
3. Construction Technology – Vol- I & II by R.Chuddy, Longman UK
4. Building by laws by State and Central governments and Municipal corporations
70
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(CED1107) STRENGTH OF MATERIALS - I
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• The student will understand various forces, various supports, deformation
of the structures or member, combination of various loads.
• The Student will be able to visualize the difference in strengthening a
member by increasing the cross sectional dimensions or making it
unnecessarily large and uneconomical. He will be able to realize that
providing larger dimensions than optimum will make the members costly and
inefficient too.
• The student will be able to predict the displacements or deformations due
to various Loads and Load combinations.
• The student will be able to realize and appreciate that an available section
can be strengthened by pruning (cutting) it in an appropriate manner
modifying certain characteristics of the cross section.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• The student will be able to know the important characteristic strengths of
various materials used in construction and fabrication of various members to
check the adoptability for use in a particular situation.
• To understand what type of straining actions will be generated under the
action of various forces and how to articulate the geometry of the structure to
avoid development of undesirable straining actions against which the
material is weak, leading to failure of the member or the whole structure
itself.
• For given shape and given loads, how to economize the structure by
proper modification like making it composite member or pre-stressing it to
introduce stresses of opposite nature.
• Predicting the displacements of a given member under given conditions
and to strengthen the member suitably to contain the undesirable
displacements thus avoiding catastrophy.
UNIT – I
Simple Stresses and Strains
Elasticity and Plasticity, Types of Stresses and Strains – Hooke‘s law - Stress-
Strain diagram for mild steel – Comparison of stress-strain curves for ductile and
71
brittle materials-various types of steels-Working stress- Factor of safety - Lateral
strain , Poisson‘s Ratio and volumetric strain - Elastic moduli and the relationship
between them - Bars of varying section - Composite bars - Temperature Stresses.
UNIT – II
Shear Force and Bending Moment
Types of supports, loads, beams – Concept of shear force and bending moment –
Relation between SF,BM and Rate of loading-SF and BM diagrams for Cantilever,
Simply supported and Over hanging beams subjected to point load, udl, uniformly
varying loads and combination of loads.Point of Contraflexure
UNIT – III
Flexural & Shear Stresses
Theory of Simple bending –Assumptions - Derivation of flexure formula, Neutral axis
–Bending stresses - Section modulus for various sections, Design of simple beam
sections. Derivation of Shear stress formula - Shear stress distribution across
various beam sections like rectangular, circular, triangular, I, T, and angle sections.
UNIT - IV
Deflection of beams
Slope, Deflection and Radius of curvature - Differential equation for the elastic line
of a beam –Double Integration and Macaulay‘s method – Determination of slope
and defection for Cantilever,Simply supported and overhanging beams subjected
to point loads, udl, uniformly varying loads
UINT – V
Thin & Thick Cylinders
Thin seamless cylindrical shells - Derivation of formula for longitudinal and
circumferential stresses - hoop, longitudinal and volumetric strains – changes in
diameter, length and volume of thin cylinders – wire wound thin cylinders-Thin
spherical shells.
Introduction to Thick Cylinders - Lame‘s Theory for thick cylinders – Derivation of
Lame‘s equations- Distribution of hoop and radial stresses across the thickness –
Radial deflection-Compound cylinders.
TEXT BOOKS
1. A Text book of Strength of materials by R.K. Bansal – Laxmi Punlications (P)
ltd. New Delhi.
2. Introduction to Strength of Materials by U.C. Jindal, Galgotia Publications
3. Strength of Materials by B.C.Punmia
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Mechanics of Solids by Ferdinand#PBeer and others – Tata Mc. Grawhill
Publications 2000
2. Strength of Materials by Schaum‘s out line series – Mc. Graw Hill
International
72
Editions
3. Strength of Materials by S.Rama Krishna and R.Narayan – Dhanpat Rai
Publications
4. Strength of Materials by A.R.Basu, Dhanpat Rai & Co. Nai Sarak, New Delhi
5. Strength of Materials by L.S.Srinath et. Al., Macmillian India Ltd. Delhi.
6. Mechanics of Structures, by S.B.Junnarkar, Charotar Publishing House
Anand, Gujrat.
73
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(CED1108) SURVEYING
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• learn and understand the various basic concept and principles used in
surveying like Chain Surveying, Compass Surveying, Plane Table Surveying,
and Levelling Surveying.
• learn and understand various instrument used in surveying.
• learn and understand how to calculate Area of plot and Ground.
• learn and understand about Horizontal Angle, Vertical Angle, Horizontal
distance and Vertical distance to study the ground profile.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• prepare Map and Plan for required site with suitable scale.
• prepare contour Map and Estimate the Quantity of earthwork required for
formation level for Road and Railway Alignment.
• judge which type of instrument to be used for carrying out survey for a
Particular Area and estimate the area.
• judge the profile of ground by observing the available existing contour map.
UNIT – 1
Surveying & measurements
Surveying – History; Definition; Classification; Principles of surveying; Plan and map;
Measurements – Basic Measurements and methods; Errors in surveying: Types of
errors
Linear measurements
Different methods; Ranging out; Chaining a line on a flat and on uneven ground;
Principles of chain surveying; Basic definitions; Equipment used for chain survey;
Field work; Offsets; Obstacles in chain survey; Chain & Tape corrections; Degree of
accuracy.
UNIT – II
Compass surveying
Prismatic compass; Local attraction; angular measurements Bearings: Azimuths;
deflection angles;
Plane table and its accessories; setting up; Plane tabling methods, Resection by trial
and error method. Errors in plane tabling;
Areas & volumes
Introduction; Simpson‘s rule; Boundaries with offsets at irregular intervals;
Coordinate method; Planimeter. Area of cross sections; two & multi level section;
Trapezoidal rule; Prismoidal formula; Volume from spot levels- volume from contour
plan; Capacity of a reservoir.
74
UNIT – III
Simple levelling
Basic definitions; Curvature and Refraction; classification of methods of leveling;
Sources of errors in leveling. Contour; contour interval; Characteristics of contours;
Methods of plotting of contours –Uses of contour maps.
Theodolite & theodolite traverse
Vernier thedolite – basic definitions, fundamental lines, Measurement of a horizontal
angle; repetition and reiteration methods of horizontal angle measurement.
Measurement of vertical angle
UNIT – IV
Tacheometric surveying
Basic systems of tacheometric measurements; Inclined sight with staff vertical;
inclined sight with staff normal to the line of sight. Trigonometric Levelling.
Circular curves
Basic definitions; Designation of a curve; Relationship between radius and degree of
curve; Elements of a simple circular curve; Methods of setting out.
UNIT – V
Electronic distance measurements
Basic concepts, principle of Electronic Distance Measurement
Modern surveying
Introduction to Geodetic surveying, Total station and Global positioning system,
Introduction to Geographic Information System(GIS).
TEXT BOOKS
1. Surveying Vol I & II by K R Arora, Standard Book house.
2. Fundamentals of Surveying by S K Roy, Prentice- Hall of India Private Ltd.
3. Plane Surveying by AM Chandra, New Age International (P) Ltd.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Elements of Plane Surveying by Arthur R Benton and Philip J Taety, Mc.
Graw Hill – 2000
2. Surveying & Levelling by R. Subramanian, Oxford University Press, New
Delhi
75
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(CED1109) FLUID MECHANICS
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Identify and obtain values off liquid properties and relationship between
them.
• Understand the principles of continuity, momentum, and energy as applied
to fluid motions.
• Recognize these principles written in form of mathematical equations.
• Apply these equations to analyze problems by making good assumptions
and learn systematic engineering method to solve practical fluid mechanics
problems.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Apply fundamental knowledge of mathematics to modeling and analysis of
fluid flow problems in civil and environmental engineering.
• Conduct experiments (in teams) in pipe flows and open-channel flows and
interpreting data from model studies to prototype cases, as well as
documenting them in engineering reports.
• Understand or become aware of disasters caused by an incorrect analysis
in hydraulic engineering system.
• Apply fundamental principles of fluid mechanics for the solution of practical
civil engineering problems of water conveyance in pipes, orifices, mouth
pieces, notches and weirs.
UNIT – I
Properties of Fluid
Introduction; Properties of Fluid, Units of measurement, Fluid Continuum,
Newtonian and Non-Newtonian fluids, Vapour pressure.
Fluid Statics
Variation of static pressure, Absolute and gauge pressure, Pressure measurement
by mechanical gauges and manometers, Pressure on plane surfaces and curved
surfaces.
UNIT - II
Kinematics of Fluid Motion
Methods of describing fluid motion, Classification of flow, Steady, unsteady, uniform
and non-uniform flows, Laminar and turbulent flows, Three, two and one dimensional
flows, Irrotational and rotational flows, Streamline Pathline, Streakline, Equation for
acceleration, Convective acceleration, Continuity equation, Velocity potential and
stream function, Flownet, Vortex flow – free vortex and forced vertex flow,
Dynamics of Fluid Flow
76
Euler‘s equation of motion, Bernoulli‘s equation, Energy correction factor, Momentum
principle, Applications of momentum equation, Force exerted on a pipe bend.
UNIT - III
Flow Measurements in Pipes
Discharge through venture meter, Discharge through office meter, Discharge through
flow nozzle, Measurement of velocity by Pilot tube.
Flow through Orifices and Mouthpieces
Flow through orifices, Determination of coefficients for an orifice, Flow through large
rectangular orifice, Flow through submerged orifice, Classification of mouthpieces,
Flow through external and internal cylindrical mouthpiece.
UNIT - IV
Flow Over Notches & Weirs
Flow through rectangular, triangular and trapezoidal notches and weirs, End
contractions, Velocity of approach. Broad crested weir.
UNIT - V
Analysis of Pipe Flow
Energy losses in pipelines, Darcy – weisbach equation, Minor losses in
pipelines,Concept o equivalent length, Hydraulic power transmission through a pipe,
Siphon‘ Pipes in series, parallel & branched pipes, water hammer.
Laminar Flow
Reynold‘s experiment, Critical velocity, steady laminar flow through a circular pipes.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Fluid Mechanics by Modi and Seth (Standard Book House).
2. Fluid Mechanics by A.K.Jain (Khanna Publishers).
3. Introduction to Fluid Mechanics by S.K. Som & G. Biswas (Tata Mc.Grawhill
Pvt. Ltd.)
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Fluid Mechanics by Douglas, J.M. Gaserek and J.A.Swaffirld (Longman
Publishers)
2. Fluid Mechanics by Frank.M.White (Tata Mc.Grawhill Pvt. Ltd.)
3. Fluid Mechanics by A.K.Mohanty, (Prentice Hall of India Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi)
77
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(CMS1101) BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• To explain different forms of organizing private and public sector business
enterprises and to analyze the significance of Business Economics in solving
the problems of business enterprise. Also to define and analyze the concepts
of Demand, Elasticity of Demand and Demand Forecasting Methods.
• To analyze the various types of costs and to determine the level of output
at which there is neither profit nor loss. To estimate capital requirements and
to describe various sources of mobilizing funds. Also to identify least cost
combinations of inputs produce desired quantity of output.
• To describe the features of different market structure and pricing
strategies.
• To explain the basic accounting concepts and conventions. To elaborate
the importance of finance function for evaluating the economic status of a
business unit.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Select the suitable form of business organization which meets the
requirement of selected business also perform decision – making function
effectively in an uncertain frame work by applying concepts of Managerial
Economics. Meet and manipulate the demand efficiently and plan the future
course of action.
• Apply right kind cost to reduce cost by paying attention towards the costs
which can be reduced. Take decision whether to buy or produce? Reduce
the cost of capital by selecting best source of fund mobilization and select
best investment opportunity which yields higher rate of return.
• Fix the right price which can best meets the predetermined objectives of
the business firm under different market conditions. Able to select best
combination of inputs to produce required quantity of output.
• Prepare books of accounts and know over all financial position of the
business enterprise which enables the concerned to take appropriate
measures to improve the situation. Also interpret the financial position from
difference angles and initiates the measures/ efforts in that direction.
UNIT-I
Business & New–Economic environment:
Characteristic features of Business, features and evaluation of sole proprietorship,
partnership, joint stock company, Public enterprises and their types. Changing
Business Environment in post–liberalization scenario
78
UNIT II
Introduction to business economics, and demand analysis, Elasticity of
demand and demand forecasting
Definition; Nature and scope of managerial economics - demand analysis
determinants; Law of demand and its exceptions.
Elasticity of demand and demand forecasting
Definition; Types; Measurement and significance of elasticity of demand; Demand
forecasting; Factors governing demand forecasting; Methods of demand forecasting
- survey methods, statistical methods, expert opinion method, test marketing,
controlled experiments, and judgmental approach to demand forecasting.
UNIT III
Cost analysis: Theory of production and market structures.
Cost analysis:
Cost concepts - opportunity cost, fixed vs. variable costs, explicit costs vs. implicit
costs, and out of pocket costs vs. imputed costs; Break-even analysis (BEA) -
determination of break-even point (simple problems), managerial significance, and
limitations of BEA.
Capital and capital budgeting
Capital and its significance; Types of capital; Estimation of fixed and working capital
requirements; Methods and sources of raising finance.
Nature and scope of capital budgeting; Features of capital budgeting proposals;
Methods of capital budgeting - payback method, accounting rate of return (ARR),
and net present value method (simple problems)
UNIT-IV
Theory of production
Production function - isoquants and isocosts, least cost combination of inputs, and
laws of returns; Internal and external economics of scale.
Market structures
Types of competition; Features of perfect competition, monopoly, and monopolistic
competition; Price-output determination in case of perfect competition and monopoly.
Pricing policies and methods
Cost plus pricing; Marginal cost pricing; Sealed bid pricing; Going rate pricing, Limit
pricing, Market skimming pricing, Penetration pricing, Two-part pricing, Block pricing,
Bundling pricing, Peak load pricing, Cross subsidization.
UNIT V
Introduction to financial accounting
Double-entry book keeping; Journal; Ledger; Trial balance; Final accounts - trading
account, profit and loss account, and balance sheet with simple adjustments.
Financial analysis through ratios
Computation; Analysis and interpretation of liquidity ratios - current ratio, and quick
ratio; Activity ratios - inventory turnover ratio, and debtor turnover ratio; Capital
79
structure ratios – debt-equity ratio, and interest coverage ratio; Profitability ratios -
gross profit ratio, net profit ratio, operating ratio, P/E ratio, and EPs.
TEXT BOOKS
1) Varshney & Maheswari: Managerial Economics , Sultan Chand, 2009.
2) Aryasri: Managerial; Economics and Financial Analysis, TMH, 2009.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1) Ambriah Gupta, Financial Accou8nting for Management, Pearson
Education, New Delhi, 2010.
2) H.Craig Peterson & W. Cris Lewis, Managerial Economics PHI, 2010.
80
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(CED1201) FLUID MECHANICS LAB
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• To understand and evaluate standard properties of fluids and their
applications.
• To learn the procedure to determine discharge and flow properties of fluids
using venture meter and orifice meter.
• To differentiate coefficient of discharge determined using small orifice and
external mouth piece.
• To measure minor losses and major losses.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Apply Bernoulli‘s principle in various real life fluid mechanics problems.
• Identify different types of flows based on Reynolds number.
• Understand basic measurement techniques of fluid mechanics and its
appropriate application depending on the requirement.
• Evaluate the Minor and friction losses in pipe flows.
1. Determination of Metacentric Height of a ship.
2. Verification of Bernoulli‘s equation
3. Determination of Coefficient of discharge for a small orifice by a constant head
method
4. Calibration of Venturimeter
5. Calibration of Orifice meter
6. Determination of Coefficient of discharge for an external mouth piece
7. Study of laminar flow using Reynolds apparatus
8. Calibration of Trapezoidal Notch
9. Study of minor losses in pipe flow
10. Determination of Friction factor for a pipe line
81
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(CED1202) SURVERYING FIELD WORK
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Student will be able to learn and understand the various basic concept and
principles used in surveying like Chain Surveying, Compass Surveying,
Plane Table Surveying, and Levelling Surveying.
• Student will be able to learn and understand various instrument used in
surveying.
• Student will learn and understand how to calculate Area of plot and
Ground.
• Student will be learn and understand about Horizontal Angle, Vertical
Angle, Horizontal distance and Vertical distance to study the ground profile.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Student will be able to prepare Map and Plan for required site with suitable
scale.
• Student will be able to prepare contour Map and Estimate the Quantity of
earthwork required for formation level for Road and Railway Alignment.
• Student will be able to judge which type of instrument to be used for
carrying out survey for a Particular Area and estimate the area.
• Student will be able to judge the profile of ground by observing the
available existing contour map.
Chain surveying
1. Chaining of a line, measurements of area by cross staff survey.
Compass survey
2. Traversing by compass - graphical adjustments.
Plane Table
3. Plane Table methods - Radiation & Intersection method.
Leveling
4. Measurement of elevation of various given points.
5. Fly Leveling, Longitudinal leveling, Cross section leveling & Contouring.
Theodolite surveying
Measurement of horizontal angles
6. Distance between two inaccessible points using the principles of
trigonometry and tachometric surveying.
Total Station
8. Area Measurement & Stake Out
9. Remote Elevation Measurement & Missing Line Measurement
10. Plotting of a Contour map
11. Laying a Simple Curve
82
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
2 0 0
(NCC1101) Human Values and Professional Ethics
Course Description
Objectives
• To develop the ability to distinguish between what is of value and what is
superficial in life.
• To develop the ability to face difficult situations in life boldly and resolve
them confidently.
• To enable students to progress from discrimination to commitment.
• To Encourage the students to understand values in life.
Syllabus
1. Self-confidence
2. Peer Pressure-Irregular life style
3. The Power of Self- determination
4. Human relationship—trust and respect- resolving conflict
5. Anger-A sign of helplessness
6. Interaction and ragging
7. Right Utilization of physical facilities
8. Unhappiness -Unfulfilled expectations
9. Setting goals- long term and short term goals-handling
responsibilities
10. Dealing with people while coordinating work
11. Coping with stress-Identifying one‘s interests and strengths
12. Time Management-Planning and aligning with one‘s goals
13. Skills and Values
14. The role of values in Society
Course Book
The resource material that has been prepared by IIIT can be used apart from
material that is available in the websites. Later text books can be identified for the
facility of the students.
Evaluation
This course would only have a pass/ fail grade. Participation in discussions,
submission of assignments and weekly reports and a final report will be used in
evaluation.
Outcome
At the end of the course the students would become sensitive towards human
values. They would understand commitment and responsibility. They would be able
to bring harmony in the society they live.
83
TEXT BOOKS
1. Mike Martin and Roland Schinzinger, ―Ethics in Engineering‖, McGraw -Hill,
New York 1996.
2. Govindarajan M, Natarajan S, Senthil Kumar V. S, ―Engineering Ethics‖,
Prentice Hall of India, New Delhi, 2004
REFERENCES
1. Charles D. Fleddermann, ―Engineering Ethics‖, Pearson Education / Prentice
Hall, New Jersey, 2004 (Indian Reprint now available).
2. Charles E Harris, Michael S. Protchard and Michael J Rabins, ―Engineering
Ethics–Concepts and Cases‖, Wadsworth Thompson Leatning, United
States, 2000 (Indian Reprint now available)
3. John R Boatright, ―Ethics and the Conduct of Business‖, Pearson Education,
New Delhi, 2003.
4. Edmund G Seebauer and Robert L Barry, ―Fundamentals of Ethics for
Scientists and Engineers‖, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2001.
5. Naagarazan, R.S. ‗A Textbook on Professional Ethics and Human Values‘
2006.
84
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MTH1106) PROBABILITY & STATISTICS
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Understand the elementary ideas in basic probability.
• Understand the different types of probability distribution functions
• Understand the basic concepts in estimation theory and test of hypothesis
• Understand the basic concepts of time series.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Solve problems involving basic probability.
• Apply the knowledge of different probability distribution to Test of
Hypothesis.
• Calculate correlation, regression coefficients.
• Use Least squares method to compute time series
UNIT I
PROBABILITY AND DISTRIBUTIONS
Sample space and events, Probability- The axioms of probability, some elementary
theorems, conditional probability, Baye‘s theorem, Random variables - discrete and
continuous. Distributions - Binomial, Poisson and Normal distributions–related
properties.
UNIT II
SAMPLING DISTRIBUTIONS AND TESTING OF HYPOTHESIS
Sampling distributions, Sampling distribution of means (σ known and unknown),
Point estimation, interval estimation, Tests of hypothesis - Null hypothesis, Alternate
hypothesis, Type I, Type II errors, Critical region, Inferences concerning means and
proportions- Large samples- Test of hypothesis for single mean and difference
between the means, Test of hypothesis for the proportions- Single and difference
between the proportions, Confidence interval for the mean and proportions.
UNIT III
TESTS OF SIGNIFICANCE- SMALL SAMPLES
Tests of significance - t distributions, Confidence interval for the t- distribution, F-
distributions and Chi square distributions.
UNIT IV
CORRELATION AND REGRESSION
Coefficient of correlation, regression coefficient, the lines of regression, rank
correlation, correlation for bivariate frequency distributions.
UNIT V
RELIABILITY THEORY AND TIME SERIES ANALYSIS
85
Basic concepts of reliability, Normal failure law, Exponential failure law, The Weibull
failure law and reliability of systems, Time series- utility of time series analysis,
Components of time series, Preliminary adjustments before analyzing time series,
Measurement of trend by the method of least squares.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Probability and Statistics for Engineers - Miller I.R. and Freund J.E, 5th
Edition, Prentice-Hall, 1995.
2. Introductory Probability and Statistical Application – Meyer, 2nd edition,
Oxford and Ibh, 1970.
3. Statistical Methods - S.P. Gupta, Sultan Chand and sons, 2011.
REFERENCES:
1. Reliability Engineering - Balagurusamy E, Tata McGraw Hill, 1984.
2. Elements of Applied Stochastic processes - Bhat U.N, Wiley Series in
Probability and Mathematical Statistics, 1983.
86
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(CED1110) STRENGTH OF MATERIALS - II
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Students will be able to understand Principal Stresses and strains and
different theories of failure, the concept of Pure torsion and different types of
springs.
• Students will be able to understand Euler‘s formula, secant and straight
line formula and their application to long and short columns.
• Students will be able to analyze the stresses for the combined action of
direct load and Bending Moment, determination of stresses for masonry
structures.
• Students will be able to analyze the stresses in beams subjected to
unsymmetrical bending.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Student will be able to define Principal stresses and strains, Solve the
problems on an inclined section of a bar under axial load, determine the
Principal stresses by using the Mohr‘s stress circle method
• Student will be able to define pure torsion, torsion equation &
assumptions, polar section modulus, and they will be able to derive the
Torsional moment of resistance for shafts and equations for open and close
coiled helical springs
• Student will be able to define Columns and struts, Analyze columns and
struts with different end conditions by using different theories.
• Student will be able to determine stresses for different masonry structures
UNIT-I
Principal Stresses and Strains
Introduction - Stresses on an inclined section of a bar under axial loading –
compound stresses – Normal and tangential stresses on an inclined plane for biaxial
stresses – Two perpendicular stresses accompanied by a state of simple shear –
Mohr‘s Circle of stresses –Principal stresses and strains –Analytical and graphical
solutions.
Theories of Failures–Various Theories of failures like Maximum Principal stress
theory -Maximum Principal strain theory –Maximum shear stress theory –Maximum
strain energy theory –Maximum shear strain energy theory
UNIT-II
Torsion of Circular Shafts
Theory of pure torsion – Derivation of Torsion equation : T/J = τ/r= Cө / L –
Assumptions made in the theory of pure torsion –Torsional moment of resistance –
87
Polar moment of Inertia-Torsional section modulus –Power transmitted by shafts –
Combined bending and torsion and end thrust –Design of shafts according to
theories of failure
Springs-types of springs – Carriage or leaf springs-,Helical springs-deflection of
close and open coiled springs under axial pull and axial couple –springs in series
and parallel
UNIT -III
Columns and Struts
Introduction –Types of columns – Short , medium and long columns –Axially loaded
compression members –Crushing load-points of Inflexion-Euler‘s theorem for long
columns –assumptions –derivation of Euler‘s critical load formulae for various end
conditions –Equivalent length of a column –slenderness ratio –Euler‘s critical stress-
Limitations of Euler‘s theory –Rankine formula –Empirical formula –Rnkine-Gordon
formula –Long columns subjected to eccentric loading –Secant–Straight line formula
–Prof Perry‘s formula
UNIT -IV
Direct and Bending Stresses
Stresses under the combined action of direct axial loading and B.M ., core of a
section –determination of stresses in the case of chimneys ,retaining walls and dams
–conditions for stability –stresses due to direct loading and B.M about both axes
UNIT -V
Unsymmetrical Bending
Introduction –Centroidal axes of section –Graphical method for locating principal
axes –Moments of inertia referred to any set of rectangular axes –Stresses in beams
subjected to unsymmetrical bending –Principal axes –Resolution of bending moment
into two rectangular axes through the centroid –Location of neutral axis deflection of
beams under unsymmetrical bending, shear centre for simple section.
TEXT BOOKS
1. A Text book of Strength of materials by R.K. Bansal – Laxmi Punlications (P)
ltd. New Delhi.
2. Introduction to Strength of Materials by U.C. Jindal, Galgotia Publications
3. Strength of Materials by B.C.Punmia
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Mechanics of Solids, by Ferdinand PBeer and others – Tata Mc. Grawhill
Publications 2000
2. Strength of Materials by Schaum‘s out line series – Mc. Graw Hill
International Editions
3. Strength of Materials by S.Rama Krishna and R.Narayan – Dhanpat Rai
Publications
4. Strength of Materials by A.R.Basu, Dhanpat Rai & Co. Nai Sarak, New Delhi
5. Strength of Materials by L.S.Srinath et. Al., Macmillian India Ltd. Delhi.
88
6. Mechanics of Structures, by S.B.Junnarkar, Charotar Publishing House
Anand, Gujrat.
89
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(CED1111) HYDRAULICS & HYDRAULIC MACHINES
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Apply fundamental principles of fluid mechanics for the solution of practical
Civil Engineering problems of water conveyance in open channels.
• Study, Analyze and Design of channels in uniform and Non-uniform flow
conditions.
• Describe the operating characteristics of hydraulic machinery (pumps and
turbines) and the factors affecting their operation and specifications, as well
as their operation in a system.
• Study and Analyze different types of different types and elements of Hydro
Electric Power plants.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Apply fundamental knowledge of fluid mechanics in solving problems and
making design of open-channel hydraulics in Civil and Environmental
Engineering.
• Describe and apply dimensional analysis and similarity to develop
hydraulic models and testing.
• Understand the basics of hydraulic machinery and their operation design in
water distribution systems.
• Select and design appropriate pumps, classification, identify and design of
hydraulic turbines and their and their application in Hydro Electric Power
plants.
UNIT-I
Open Channel Flow – I
Types of flows – Types of channels – Velocity distribution – Energy and momentum
correction factors - Chezy‘s, Manning‘s and Bazin formulae for uniform flow – Most
economical sections.
Critical Flow: Specific energy – critical depth - computation of critical depth –
critical, sub critical and super critical flows.
UNIT II
Open Channel Flow – II
Non uniform flow – Dynamic equation for G.V.F; Mild, Critical, Steep, Horizontal and
Adverse slopes – Surface profiles – Direct step method.
Rapidly varied flow: Hydraulic jump – derivation - energy dissipation applications.
UNIT III
Hydraulic Similitude
90
Dimensional analysis – Rayleigh‘s method and Buckingham‘s pi theorem – study of
Hydraulic models – Geometric, Kinematic and Dynamic similarities – Dimensionless
numbers – Model and Prototype relations.
Basics of Turbo Machinery
Hydrodynamic force of jets on stationary and moving flat, inclined and curved vanes,
Jet striking centrally and at tip, Velocity triangles at inlet and outlet, expressions for
work done and efficiency – Angular momentum principle, applications to radial flow
turbines.
UNIT IV
Hydraulic Turbines – I
Elements of a typical Hydropower installation – Heads and efficiencies –
Classification of turbines – Pelton wheel – Francis turbine – Kaplan turbine –
working, working proportions, velocity diagram, work done and efficiency, hydraulic
design, draft tube – theory and function efficiency.
Hydraulic Turbines –II
Governing of turbines – Surge tanks – Unit and specific turbines – Unit speed – Unit
quantity – Unit power – Specific speed – Performance characteristics – Geometric
similarity – Cavitation.
UNIT V
Centrifugal Pumps
Pump installation details – classification – work done – Manometric head – minimum
starting speed – losses and efficiencies – specific speed. Multistage pumps – pumps
in parallel – performance of pumps – characteristic curves – NPSH – Cavitation.
Hydropower Engineering
Classification of Hydropower plants – Definition of terms – load factor, utilization
factor, capacity factor, estimation of hydropower potential.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Open Channel Flow by K.Subramanya (Tata Mc.Graqwhill Pvt. Ltd.).
2. Fluid Mechanic and Fluid Machines by Rajput (S.Chand & co).
3. Fluid Mechanic & Fluid Power Engineering by D.S.Kumar (Kataria & Sons
Publications Pvt. Ltd.).
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Fluid Mechanics, Hydraulic and Hydraulic Machines by Modi & Seth
(Standard Book House).
2. Open channel flow by V.T.Chow (Mc.Graw Hill Book Company).
3. Hydraulic Machines by Banga & Sharma (Khanna Publishers).
91
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(CED1112) CONCRETE TECHNOLOGY
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Use different types of cement as per their properties for different field
applications.
• Design economic concrete mix proportion for different exposure conditions
and intended purposes.
• Supervise various concreting operations.
• Carry out field and laboratory tests on concrete in plastic and hardened
stage.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Determine the properties of concrete ingredients i.e. cement, sand, coarse
aggregate by conducting different tests. Recognize the effects of the
rheology and early age properties of concrete on its long-term behavior.
• Use various chemical admixtures and mineral additives to design cement
based materials with tailor-made properties
• Use advanced laboratory techniques to characterize cement-based
materials.
• Understand the mix design and engineering properties of special concretes
such as high-performance concrete, self-compacting concrete, fibre
reinforced concrete, etc.
UNIT -I
Cements, Aggregates & Admixtures
Portland cement – chemical composition, hydration, setting of cement , structure
of hydrated cement –Tests on physical properties – Different grades of cement –
Classification of aggregates – Particle shape & texture – bond, strength & other
Mechanical properties of aggregates – specific gravity, bulk density, porosity,
adsorption & moisture content of aggregate– sieve analysis – fineness modulus -
Grading curves - Grading of fine & coarse aggregates – gap graded aggregate –
maximum aggregate size – alkali aggregate reaction – thermal properties - types of
Admixtures – Mineral and chemical admixtures – properties – dosages – effects -
usage.
UNIT –II
Fresh Concrete
Workability – Factors affecting workability – Measurement of workability by different
tests - setting times of concrete - Effect of time and temperature on workability -
Segregation & Bleeding - Mixing and vibration of concrete - Steps in the manufacture
of concrete - Quality of mixing water.
92
UNIT –III
Hardened Concrete
Water/cement ratio - Abram‘s Law – Gel space ratio law- Maturity concept - strength
in tension & compression - Factors affecting strength -Relation between
compression & tensile strength
UNIT –IV
Testing of Hardened Concrete
Compression test -Tension Test - Flexure Test - Splitting Test- Factors affecting
strength- Non-Destructing Testing methods – Codal provisions for NDT - Modulus of
Elasticity – Static and Dynamic modulus of elasticity- Poisson‘s ratio - Creep of
concrete - Factors influencing creep – Relation between creep & time – Nature of
creep – effects of creep - Shrinkage- types of shrinkage.
UNIT-V
Mix design
Factors in the choice of mix proportions - Durability of concrete – quality control of
concrete - Statistical methods – Acceptance criteria –Proportioning of concrete
mixes - BIS method of mix design for ordinary and pumpable concrete
Special Concretes
Introduction to Light weight concrete – light weight aggregates – cellular concrete –
No-fines concrete – fibre reinforced concrete – polymer concrete – High performance
concrete – Self compacting concrete – Ready Mix concrete.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Concrete Technology by M.S.Shetty – S.Chand & Co. ; 2004
2. Properties of concrete by A.M.Neville – Low priced edition – 4th edition
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Concrete Technology by M.L.Gambhir – Tata Mc.Graw Hill press, New
Delhi
2. Concrete Technology by A.R.Santha Kumar, Oxford university press, New
Delhi
3. Concrete: Micro Structure, Properties and Materials – P.K.Mehta and
J.M.Monteiro, Mc-Graw Hill Publishers.
93
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(CED1113) STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS - I
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• The student will learn how to analyze the statically indeterminate structures
by applying the principles of equilibrium and compatibility in deformation
pertaining to the structure.
• The student understands the difference between the flexibility and stiffness
methods.
• The student will realize the necessity of help from the computer in analysis
of structures of higher degree of indeterminacy.
• The student will learn to predict the elastic curve for better understanding
of the behavior of the indeterminate structure.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• The student will be able to judge the number and type of supports
appropriate for given conditions of loading and of topography with
confidence.
• The student can understand the advantage of statically indeterminate
structure over the statically determinate structure
• The student can confidently analyze the indeterminate structure of higher
degree of indeterminacy through computer oriented methods of analysis.
• The student can superimpose the effects of weakness of supports or
foundations such as allowing or imposing settlement or rotation of the ends
over the results of normal and simple analysis.
UNIT-I
Propped Cantilevers
Analysis of propped cantilevers-shear force and bending moment diagrams-
Deflection of propped cantilevers.
Fixed beams
Introduction to statically indeterminate beams with u.d.l., point loads, uniformly
varying load, couple and combination of loads, shear force and bending moment
diagrams-deflection of fixed beams, effect of sinking of support, effect of rotation of a
support.
UNIT-II
Continuous beams
Introduction- Clapeyron‘s theorem of three moments-analysis of continuous beams
of constant moment of inertia with one or both ends fixed-continuous beams with
overhang, continuous beams with different moments of inertia for different spans-
94
effects of sinking of supports-shear force and bending moment diagrams. Analysis of
Fixed beams using Clapeyrons theorem.
UNIT-III
Slope-deflection method
Introduction, derivation of slope deflection equation, application to continuous
beams with and without settlement of supports.
UNIT IV
Energy theorems
Introduction-strain energy in linear elastic system, expression of strain energy due to
axial load, bending moment and shear forces – Castigliano‘s first theorem
– deflection of simple beam and pin jointed trusses.
Indeterminate Structural Analysis –– solution of trusses with one degrees of internal
or external indeterminacies – Castiglino‘s theorem
UNIT-V
Influence lines
Definition of influence line for SF, influence line for BM- load position for maximum
SF at a section-load position for maximum BM at a section single point load, U.D
load longer than the span U.D load shorter than the span-influence lines for forces in
members of Pratt and Warren trusses.
Moving loads
Introduction, maximum SF and BM at a given section and absolute maximum S.F.
and B.M. due to single concentrated load, U.D. load longer than the span, U.D. load
shorter than the span, two points loads with fixed distance between them and
several point loads- Equivalent uniformly distributed load-focal length.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Analysis of Structures – Voll & Col II by V.N.Vazirani & M.M. Ratwani,
Khanna Publications, New Delhi.
2. Structural Analysis by V.D.Prasad Galgotia publications, 2nd Editions.
3. Analysis of Structures by T.S. Thandavamoorthy, Oxford University Press,
New Delhi.
4. Comprehensive Structural Analysis – Vol.1&2 by Dr. P.Vaidyanathan &
Dr.P.Perumal – Laxmi Publications Pvt. Ltd. New Delhi.
5. Structural Analysis – A unified approach by Dr. DSP. Rao
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Mechanics of Structures by S.B.Junnarkar, Charotar Publishing House,
Anand, gujrat
2. Theory of Structures by Gupta, Pandit & Gupta; Tat Mc. Graw – Hill
Publishing Co. Ltd. New Delhi.
3. Theory of Structures by R.S.Khurmi , S.Chand Publishers
4. Strength of Materials and Mechanics of Structures – by B.C.Punmia,
Khanna Publications, New Delhi.
5. Basic Structural Analysis by C.S.Reddy, Tata McGraw-Hill, New Delhi.
95
6. Basic Structural Analysis by K U Muthu, A. Ibrahim, M.Vijayanand and
M. Janardhana, I K Intl. Publishers.
96
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(CED1114) ENGINEERING HYDROLOGY
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• To impart to the students the fundamentals of hydrology.
• To enable the students to understand the various formula used in
Hydrology
• To enable the students to solve analytical problems
• To enable the students to apply the hydrology to real problems
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Compute the average precipitation using several methods
• Compute the evaporation, evapotranspiration and infiltration on a given
field
• Construct Unit Hydrographs and determine design discharges for various
structures.
• Understand the basics of Groundwater Hydrology and Well Hydraulics
UNIT-I
Introduction
Hydrology – Definition, surface water hydrology and groundwater hydrology,
Hydrology cycle – Different forms, Global Water Budget.
Precipitation
Rain-gauge – Recording and non recording types, Mass rainfall curves –
Characteristics mean rainfall on a basin – Arithmetic, Theissen and Isohyetal
methods, Intensity – Duration Analysis, Intensity – Frequency – Duration analysis,
Depth – Area – Duration curves, PMP, Missing Rainfall Data – Estimation,
Consistency of Rainfall records, Double mass curve, Rain gauge network analysis.
UNIT II
Evaporation
Evaporation process, Factors affecting evaporation, Estimation of evaporation,
Measurement of evaporation – Evaporation pans, Control of evaporation,
Transpiration, Evapo-transpiration, PET, Consumptive use, Lysimeter, Formulae for
estimation of PET.
Infiltration
Infiltration process, Factors affecting, Measurement of infiltration, Infiltrometer,
Infiltration capacity curve, Horton‘s relation, Infiltration Indices, Φ-Index, W-Index and
W Index.
min
UNIT III
Runoff
97
Components of Runoff, Factors affecting runoff, Estimation of runoff, Basin yield,
Flow duration curves, Mass curve of runoff – Analysis, Estimation of safe yield from
a reservoir of given capacity.
Hydrographs
Hydrograph – components, separation of hydrograph into base flow and DRO –
Methods, Unit hydrograph – principles, derivation of UH of Isolated unit storms, UH
for various durations – S-curve techniques, Estimation of runoff from UH, Average
UH, limitations of UH theory, Synthetic UH, IUH.
UNIT IV
Groundwater Hydrology
Occurrence, movement and distribution of groundwater, aquifers – types, specific
yield, permeability, storage coefficient, Transmissibility, Rock properties affecting
groundwater.
UNIT V
Well Hydraulics
Steady radial flows into well confined and unconfined aquifers, Recuperation tests,
Well interference, Well characteristics.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Hydrology by Warren Viessman, Jr. and Gary L.Lewis (PHI
Publishers)
2. Engineering Hydrology by Jaya Rami Reddy (Laxmi Publications)
3. Hydrology by Madan Mohan Das and Mimi Das Saikia (PHI Publishers)
4. Hydrology by K. Subramanya (Tata McGraw-Hill)
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Elements of Engineering Hydrology by V.P. Singh (Tata McGraw-Hill)
2. Ground water Hydrology by David Keith Todd, John Wiley & Son, New
York.
3. Elements of water Resources Engineering by K.N.Duggal and J.P.Soni
(New Age International)
98
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(CED1203) HYDRAULICS & HYDRAULIC MACHINES LAB
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• understand the working principle of energy dissipaters using hydraulic
jump.
• familiarize the students with the components and working principles of the
Hydraulic machines- different types of Turbines.
• differentiate the working principle between centrifugal pump and
reciprocating pump
• learn and practice writing technical reports and to work on small design
projects
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Understand the loss energy and classification of hydraulic turbines
• Demonstrate the working principles of Hydraulic machines- (different types
of Turbines/ Pumps) which are used in power generation.
• Apply the principle of impact of jet on vanes in turbines.
• Evaluate the maximum obtainable efficiency of the turbines/ pumps using
plots.
1. Impact of jet on vanes
2. Determination of Critical slope
3. Study of Hydraulic jump
4. Determination of Chezzy‘s constant
5. Main characteristics of Pelton wheel turbine
6. Performance test on Francis turbine
7. Main characteristics of Centrifugal Pump
8. Operating characteristics of Centrifugal Pump
9. Main characteristics of Reciprocating Pump
10. Operating characteristics of Reciprocating Pump
99
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(CED1204) MATERIAL TESTING LAB
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• The student will be able to study the uses of various types of testing
machines and capacities.
• The student will be able to test the structural materials against
various straining actions which the member is intended to bear during its
service. The strength of materials against various straining actions can be
determined by conducting the appropriate tests.
• The student will be able to identify, understand or design various
implements for generating required straining forces using the machine or to
augment the utility of the same machine.
• The student will be able to understand the principle of self- straining
systems and to analyze the various elements of the machine and appreciate
the capacity of the testing machine or the frame.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• The student clearly understands the concepts of deciding the shape or type
of specimen for assessing the respective strengths against various straining
actions.
• The student can design the specimens for assessing a particular property
of the material with the available machines.
• The student can design the experiments making use of various techniques
of load measuring or deformation measuring instruments.
• The student will be confident to decide the range of the machine and set
the machine accordingly by suitable modifications, for results with a finer
degree of accuracy.
1. Uni-axial Tension test on a Ductile Material
2. Bending test on (Steel / Wood) Cantilever beam.
3. Bending test on simply supported beam.
4. Torsion test on a ductile material specimen
5. Hardness test (Brinell and Rockwell)
6. Compression and tensile tests on close coiled helical spring
7. Compression test on wood (Parallel & Perpendicular to grains) and/or
concrete
8. Impact test-Izod and Charpy Impact Tests
9. Direct Shear test
10. Verification of Maxwell‘s Reciprocal theorem on beams
11. Deflection test on continuous beam with point load on one span
100
12. Deflection test on continuous beam with two point loads, one in each span
Additional Experiments:
 Use of electrical resistance strain gauges-Demonstration
101
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(CED1115) DESIGN OF REINFORCED CONCRETE STRUCTURES
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Know the salient features of Limit State Method of design of RC structures.
• Understand the various codal provisions given in IS. 456.
• Know the behaviour of RC beams under flexure, shear and compression.
• Understand the concepts of limit state of collapse and limit state of
serviceability.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Design the singly reinforced, doubly reinforced and flanged sections.
• Design the axially loaded, uniaxial and biaxial bending columns.
• Design the isolated square, rectangular and circular footings
• Design the one-way and two-way slabs.
UNIT – I
Concepts of RC Design
Limit state design, Basic statistical principles, Characteristic loads, Characteristic
strength, Partial load & safety factors, Representative stress- strain curves for cold
worked deformed bars and mild steel bars, Assumptions in limit state design, Stress
block parameters, I.S. 456 Codal provisions
Beams
Limit state design of Singly reinforced, Doubly reinforced, T and L beam sections.
UNIT – II
Shear, Torsion and Bond
Limit state design of beams for shear and torsion, Concept of bond, Anchorage &
Development length, Design examples in simply supported and continuous beams,
Detailing.
UNIT – III
Columns
Design of axially loaded columns of different cross sections, Design of columns
under uni-axial bending and bi-axial bending using SP-16 charts
UNIT – IV
Footings
Different types of footings, Design of flat type and sloped type isolated square,
rectangular and circular footings.
UNIT-V
Slabs
Design of one-way slabs, Design of continuous slabs using IS coefficients, Design of
two-way simply supported and restrained slabs.
102
Limit state of serviceability for deflection and cracking.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Limit state design of reinforced concrete by P.C. Varghese, PHI, New
Delhi.
2. Fundamentals of Reinforced concrete design by M.L.Gambhir, PHI, New
Delhi.
3. Limit State Design by B.C.Punmia, Ashok Kumar Jain and Arun Kumar
Jain, Laxmi, Publications Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Reinforced Concrete Design by S.Unnikrishna Pillai & Devdas Menon,
TMH, New Delhi.
2. Reinforced Concrete Design by N.Krishna Raju and R.N.Pranesh, New
age International Publishers, New Delhi.
3. Design of concrete structures–Arthus H.Nilson, David Darwin.TMH, New
Delhi.
Note:
Question paper pattern for Final Examination:
The end examination paper should consist of Part-A and Part-B. Part-A consists of
two questions in Design and Drawing out of which one question is to be answered
for 25 marks. Part-B consists of Five questions on design out of which three are to
be answered for 45 marks (15 x 3).
103
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(CED1116) ENGINEERING GEOLOGY
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Know geology from Civil Engineering point of view
• Understand Mineral and rock properties
• Understands the significance of structural geology
• Understand the concepts of Geophysical methods
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Define geology and its importance in Civil Engineering
• List different properties of Minerals
• Classify the rocks
• Aquire the knowledge of structural geology.
UNIT-I
Introduction
Definition of Geology, Engineering Geology. Importance of geology from Civil
Engineering point of view. Importance of physical geology, petrology and structural
geology. Case studies of failures of few civil engineering constructions .Weathering
of rocks and its effect on the properties of rocks, importance of weathering with
reference to dams, reservoirs and tunnels.
UNIT-II
Mineralogy
Definition of mineral, mineralogy, Importance of study of minerals: rock forming and
ore forming minerals.Differnt methods of study minerals .Advantages of study of
minerals by physical identification method. Physical Properties of minerals for
identification of minerals. Physical properties of following minerals: Feldspar, Quartz,
Flint, Jasper, Olivine, Augite, Hornblende, Muscovite, Biotite, Asbestos, Chlorite,
Kyanite, Garnet, Talc, Calcite. Study of ore forming minerals such as Pyrite,
Hematite, Magnetite, Amethyst, Galena, Pyrolusite, Graphite, Magnesite, and
Bauxite, Coral reefs.
UNIT-III
Petrology
Defintion of a rock, petrology.Classification of rocks-Geological classification of
rocks. Rock Cycle.Cassification of igneous Forms, structures and textures of igneous
rocks. Classification of sedimentary rocks, and its structures and textures.
Classification metamorphic rocks, its structures and textures. Megascopic Study of
Granite, Dolerite, Basalt, Pegmatite, Charnockite, Sandstone, Shale, Limestone,
Gneiss, Schist, Quartzite, Marble and Slate.
UNIT-IV
104
Structural Geology
Out Crop, Study of geological structures associate with rocks such as folds, faults,
joints, unconformities-their important types. Significance of Strike and dip in
geological structures. Earthquakes, their causes and effects, shield areas and
seismic belts, seismic waves Richter scale, Precautions to be taken for building
construction in seismic areas. Land slides, their causes and effect, measure to be
taken to prevent their occurrence. Ground Water, water table, common types of
ground water, springs, geological controls of ground water movement, ground water
exploration.
UNIT V
Importance of Geophysical investigations, Principles of geophysical methods.
Importance of Electrical resistivity method and seismic refraction method from civil
engineering point of view.
Geology of Dams, Reservoirs, Tunnels
Types of Dams, importance of geology in their site selection and geological
considerations in the site selection of a dam, reservoir, tunnels. Histories of dams,
geological factors affecting the water tightness and life of a reservoir. Purpose of
tunneling, types of tunnels, out break, lining of tunnels.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering Geology by N.Chennakesavulu, Mc-Millan, India Ltd.
2. Principals of Engineering Geology by K.V.G.K. Gokhale, B.S publications
3. Fundamentals of Engineering Geology by F.G Bell, Butterworth‘s
publications, New Delhi.
4. Engineering Geology by Parbin Singh.
105
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(CED1117) IRRIGATION ENGINEERING
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• To impart to the students the Irrigation Engineering.
• To enable the students to understand the details of water requirement of
crops
• To enable the students to solve analytical problems
• To enable the students to design different components of a Irrigation
System
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Compute the water requirement of various crops
• Calculate the reservoir capacity required for Irrigation
• Design various types of Diversion Head Works
• Design Irrigation Canals using different theories
UNIT – I
Introduction to Irrigation Engineering
Necessity and importance of irrigation, advantages and ill effects of irrigation, types
of irrigation, methods of application of irrigation water, Indian agricultural soils,
methods of improving soil fertility, preparation of land for irrigation, standards of
quality for irrigation water.
Water Requirements of Crops
Soil-water-plant relationship, vertical distribution of soil moisture, soil moisture
constants, soil moisture tension, consumptive use, estimation of consumptive use,
Duty and delta, factors affecting duty, depth and frequency of Irrigation, irrigation
efficiencies.
UNIT – II
Reservoir Planning
Factors governing selecting site for reservoirs, zones of storage of a reservoir,
reservoir yield, estimation of capacity of reservoir using mass curve. Reservoir
sedimentation-control.
Dams: Gravity Dams
Types of dams, factors affecting selection of type of dam, Forces acting on gravity
dam, causes of failure of a gravity dam, elementary profile and practical profile of a
gravity dam, limiting height of a low gravity dam, stability analysis, drainage galleries.
UNIT – III
Earthen Dams
106
Types of Earth dams, causes of failure of earth dam, criteria for safe design of earth
dam, seepage through earth dam-graphical method, measures for control of
seepage.
Spillways
Types of spillways, design principles of Ogee spillways, types of spillway gates.
UNIT – IV
Diversion Head works
Types of Diversion head works-diversion and storage head works, weirs and
barrages, layout of diversion head works, components, Causes and failure of
hydraulic structures on permeable foundations, Bligh‘s creep theory, Khosla‘s theory,
determination of uplift pressure, impervious floors using Bligh‘s and Khosla‘s theory,
exit gradient, functions of U/s and d/s sheet piles.
Canal Falls
Types of falls and their location of Sarda type fall, trapezoidal notch fall and straight
glacis fall.
UNIT – V
Irrigation Canals
Classification of canals, Silt Theories –Kennedy‘s Theory, design procedure of
canals, Silt supporting capacity, drawbacks, Lacey‘s regime theory – design
procedure of canals, comparison of Kennedy‘s and Lacey‘s regime theory.
Design of Irrigation Canals
Balancing depth of cutting – use of Garret‘s diagrams in canal design – use of
Lacey‘s diagrams – canal design – water logging and canal lining, Cross drainage
works – Types, selection of suitable types of CD works.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Irrigation Engineering and Hydraulic Structures by S.K. Garg (Khanna
Publishers)
2. Irrigation Engineering by K.R. Arora (Standard Publishers)
3. Irrigation Engineering by R.K. Sharma and T.K. Sharma (S.Chand
Publishers)
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Irrigation and Water Resources Engineering by G.L.Asawa (New Age
Publishers)
2. Concrete Dams by Varshney
3. Theory and Design of Hydraulic Structures by Varshney (Gupta & Gupta)
107
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(CED1118) GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING - I
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• To create an ability to apply knowledge of geotechnical engineering.
• To accentuate the understanding of the basic principles of soil mechanics
and its application to solve problems related to geotechnical engineering.
• To improve the basic understanding of the index and engineering
properties of soils
• To improve the concepts to understand the hydraulic behavior of the soils
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• An ability to identify, formulate and solve geotechnical engineering
problems.
• Improvising techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for
necessary understanding in geotechnical engineering practice.
• A complete awareness of the classical concept of soil mechanics and its
necessity
• An awareness of the selection of soil based on the applicability and
requirement conditions.
Unit - I
roperties of Soil
Historical development – Physical properties of Soil – Void ratio – Porosity, Degree
of Saturation, Water content, Unit Weights, Specific Gravity – their relationships,
Relative density. Consistency limits – determination and various indices – plasticity
index Liquidity index – Significance and Importance, Activity. Classifications :
Mechanical analysis – Sieve analysis, stoke‘s law, hydrometer Analysis Textural
Classification, Structural Classification based on size – unified soil classification and
modification by Bureau of Indian Standard. Clay minerals mineralogy
Unit - II
Permeability and Seepage
Soil water-types, Darcy‘s law-Factors affecting permeability, Determination of
permeability by constant head and falling head method as per IS – 2720, field test as
per IS – 5529 (part I)- pumping in test and pumping out test. Permeability of layered
soils Seepage forces, General flow equation (Laplace equation). Flow net
construction and applications, Anisotropic soil conditions, quick sand condition. Uplift
pressure, exit gradient, failure due to piping, Criteria for design of filters.
Unit - III
Compaction:
108
Compaction-Factors affecting compaction. Dry density and moisture content
relationship. Zero air voids line. Engineering behavior of compacted soils. Standard
Proctor test and Modified Proctor test as per IS – 2720. Field compaction equipment,
Field control of compaction.
Consolidation: primary compression and secondary compression determination of
preconsolidation pressure. Normally consolidated, over consolidated and under
consolidated clays. Oedometer Test, e-p and e-log p curves – compression index,
coefficient of compressibility and coefficient of volume decrease. Terzaghi‘s one
dimensional consolidation theory assumption, derivation and application, coefficient
of consolidation time curve fitting methods, initial compression,
Unit - IV
Stress Distribution in Soils
Effective stress concept, Nature of effective stresses, Effect of water table
fluctuations on effective stress, Effective stress in a soil mass under hydro static
condition, capillarity effect on effective stress. Effective stress under steady seepage
condition, failure of structures by piping. Boussinesq theory- point load, line load,
strip load, circular and rectangular loaded areas. pressure distribution diagram on a
horizontal and vertical plane, pressure bulb, Westergaard's theory, equivalent point
load method, Newmark chart, Fadum chart, contact pressure, approximate stress
distribution method.
Unit - V
Shear Strength of Soil
Stress strain curve, stress at a point-Mohr circle of stress, Mohr-coulomb failure
criteria, pore pressure, total and effective stress. Peak and residual shear
strength. Factors affecting shear strength. Laboratory measurement of shear
strength by direct, unconfined, Vane shear test and triaxial tests under different
drainage conditions. Shear strength characteristics of sands. Sensitivity and
thixotropy of cohesive soils. shear strength of sands, critical void ratio and
dilatancy, shear strength of clays, total stress analysis and effective stress
analysis,
TEXT BOOKS
1. Basic and Applied Soil Mechanics by Gopal Rajan and A.S.R. Rao.
2. Soil Mechanics, Foundation Engineering by V.N.S. Murthy.
3. Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering by K.R. Arora.
109
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(CED1119) STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS – II
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Ability to idealize and analyze statically determinate and indeterminate
structures
• To introduce Displacement methods of analysis for statically indeterminate
structures.
• To Introduce the approximate methods of analysis for both gravity and
Lateral loads.
• Familiarity with professional and contemporary issues
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Ability to analyze Two hinged and three hinged arch structures
• Ability to determine deflections of beams using classical methods
• Ability to solve statically indeterminate structures using classical methods
• Ability to solve statically indeterminate structures using Approximate
methods
UNIT I
ARCHES : Three hinged arches
Elastic theory of arches – Eddy‘s theorem – Determination of horizontal thrust,
bending moment, normal thrust and radial shear – effect of temperature.
Two hinged arches: Determination of horizontal thrust bending moment, normal
thrust and radial shear – Rib shortening and temperature stresses, tied arches –
fixed arches – ( No analytical question).
UNIT – II
Moment Area method-beams subjected to point loads,udl and couples
Conjugate Beam Method: Derivation of Theorems-Application to Beam deflections
and slopes.
UNIT – III
Moment Distribution method – Stiffness and carry over factors – Distribution factors
– Analysis of continuous beams with and without sinking of supports
Kani‘s Method : Analysis of continuous beams – including settlement of supports and
single bay single storey portal frames with side sway .
UNIT-IV
Approximate method of structural analysis, application to building frames. (i) Portal
method (ii) Cantilever method. (iii) Substitute frame analysis-two cycle.
UNIT – V
Determination of kinematic indeterminacy-Stiffness method: Introduction, application
to continuous beams including support settlements.
110
TEXT BOOKS
1. Analysis of Structures – Vol. I & 2 by Bhavikathi, Vikas publications
2. Analysis of structures by Vazrani & Ratwani – Khanna Publications.
3. Strength of Materials and mechanics of solids Vol-2 by B.C. Punmia, Laxmi
Publications, New Delhi
4. Structural Analysis by Devdasmenon and Pillai, Narosa publishers
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Structural Analysis (Matrix Approach) by Pundit and Gupta – Tata Mc.Graw Hill
publishers.
2. Theory of structures by Ramamuratam
3. Structural Analysis by C.S. Reddy, Tata Macgrawhill, New Delhi
4.Intermediate Structural Analysis by C.K.Wang –Mc Graw-Hill International Series
111
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(CED1205) ENGINEERING GEOLOGY LAB
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Identify the mineral name by studying the properties
• Identify the rocks
• Interpretation of geological maps
• Identify the presence of folds, faults, dip and strike in rocks
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Identify various Minerals
• Identify the rocks
• Interpret and draw the sections for geological maps showing horizontal
beds, vertical beds, inclined b, folds, faults, unconformities.
• Behaviour of the minerals and their engineering applications
List of Experiments
1 .Study of physical properties and identification of minerals referred under theory.
Feldspar, Quartz, Flint, Jasper, Olivine, Augite, Hornblende, Muscovite, Biotite,
Asbestos, Chlorite, Kyanite, Garnet, Talc, Calcite. Study of ore forming minerals
such as Pyrite, Hematite, Magnetite, Amethyst, Galena, Pyrolusite, Graphite,
Magnesite, and Bauxite, Coral reefs.
2. Megascopic description and identification of rocks referred under theory. Granite,
Dolerite, Basalt, Pegmatite, Charnockite, Sandstone, Shale, Limestone, Gneiss,
Schist, Quartzite, Marble and Slate.
3. Interpretation and drawing of sections for geological maps showing horizontal
beds, vertical beds, inclined beds, folds, faults, unconformities.
112
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(CED1206) COMPUTER AIDED DRAFTING OF BUILDING
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Use AutoCAD software. Use different commands to draw Building
Drawings.
• Draw different components of Doors and Windows.
• Draw different types of Trusses.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Use different Autocad Commands to develop Plan, Section and
elevation of single Storied and Multi Storied Buildings.
• Draw and detail different Components of different types of doors
and windows.
• Develop Working Drawings of Residential Buildings.
• Prepare drawing with details of roof trusses.
1. Introduction to Computer Aided Drafting.
2. Software for CAD- Introduction to different software‘s.
3. Practice exercises on CAD software.
4. Drawing of plans of buildings using software a) single storied buildings b)
multi storied buildings.
5. Developing sections and elevations for a) single storied buildings b) multi
storied buildings.
6. Detailing of building components like Doors, Windows, Roof Trusses etc.
using CAD software.
7. Exercise on development of working drawings of buildings
TEXT BOOKS
1. Computer Aided Design Laboratory by M.N.Sesha Prakash & Dr.
G.S.Servesh – Laxmi Publications
2. Engineering Graphics by P.J.Sha-S.Chand & Co.
113
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(CED1207) CONCRETE LAB
LIST OF EXCERCISES
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• To Understand the test procedures to find Physical properties of Cement
• To understand the test procedures to find Specific Gravity, Bulking of
Aggregates.
• To Understand the test procedures to find properties of Fresh Concrete
• To Understand the test procedures to find properties of Hardened Concrete
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Test Fineness, Specific Gravity, Setting Time, Soundness and
Compressive Strength of Cement
• Test Specific Gravity of Coarse Aggregate and Fine Aggregate, Bulking of
Fine Aggregate.
• Design Concrete Mix Proportioning by Using Indian Standard Method.
• Test Workability of Fresh Concrete and Compressive strength, Split Tensile
Strength of Hardened Concrete.
Cycle -I
I. Tests on Cement:
a) Standard Consistency
b) Initial Setting Time & Final Setting Time
c) Specific Gravity
d) Fineness
e) Soundness
f) Compressive Strength
II. Tests on Aggregates:
a) Sieve Analysis and Gradation Charts of Fine Aggregate & Coarse
Aggregate.
b) Specific Gravity of Fine Aggregate & Coarse Aggregate.
c) Bulking chart for Fine Aggregate.
Cycle –II
III. Tests on Fresh Concrete:
a) Slump Test
b) Compaction factor Test
c) Vee Bee Test
IV. Tests on Hardened Concrete:
a) Compression, Flexure and Split Tension Tests.
b) Modulus of Elasticity of Concrete.
c) Non Destructive Testing of concrete (for Demonstration)
114
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
2 0 0
(NCC1102) Soft Skills and Personality Development
Introduction
In an era of Technological advances and competition in the job market, it is
necessary for students to possess soft skills and effective personal skills in addition
to technical skills. It is essential that students possess the ability to convey technical
ideas in a sound and simple manner. Planning and execution are the two important
activities required for them. It is the execution that requires the soft skills as it most of
the times deals with people. This course on ―Soft Skills and Personality
Development‖ is aimed at enhancing students‘ career prospects.
This course uncovers the principles of soft skills and personality skills, the ways to
integrate them in different phases of career that require personal and interpersonal
skills. It focuses on transforming the way of one‘s thinking and reacting to the
environment. It equips the students with self analysis and gain self- control through
stress management and conflict management. It also helps students with study
skills. It helps students overcome their barriers and achieve excellence in
performance and succeed in their chosen field of work.
Objectives
enable students to convert the conceptual understanding of communication into
everyday practice train students to ground concepts/ideas in their own experience
enable students to exercise control over language use sensitise students to the
nuances of the four basic communication skills – Listening, Speaking, Reading
and Writing enable students to understand the concept and components of
personality, so as to apply the acquired knowledge and march towards excellence
in their academic careers. train students to become aware of their thinking styles
and to enable them to convert thinking into performance prepare students to
evolve mental models for intra-personal and inter-personal transactions make
students reflect and improve their use of body language – posture, gesture, facial
expression, tone sharpen memory skills and other study skills, which are vital for
academic excellence. bring outthe creativity and latent talents of students through
goal setting
train students for positive thinking to keep them in good stead at the time of crisis.
SYLLABUS
Unit I: Introduction to Personality Development
1. Definition and Basics of personality
 Determinants of Personality- biological, psychological and socio- cultural
factors
 Need for personality Development
115
2. Analyzing strengths and Weaknesses
3. Corporate theories on Personality development
4. Increasing vocabulary
5. Body Language
6. Preparation of Self Introduction
7. Motivation
 Self-analysis through SWOT
 Techniques and strategies for self-motivation
Unit II : Techniques in Personality Development Stage I
1. Communication Skills
2. Listening
3. Communication Barriers
4. Overcoming these Barriers
5. Importance of Self Esteem -- Building Self-esteem& Self Confidence
6. Working on attitudes – aggressive, assertive and submissive
7. Goal Setting
8. Leadership and Team Building Skills
9. Group Discussion
Unit III: Techniques in Personality Development Stage II
1. Interpersonal relationships
 Analysis of ego states, Transactions, Strokes and Life Positions
2. Stress Management
 Concept, Nature and Dimensions of Stress
 Causes, Impact and Managing Stress
 Relaxation Techniques
3. The Power of positive thinking
 Nurturing creativity, decision-making and problem solving
 Goals and techniques for positive thinking
 Enhancement of concentration through positive thinking
4. Projecting a Positive Social Image
 Grooming & Social Etiquette
 Voice Modulation
 Public Speaking
Unit IV: Techniques in Personality Development Stage III
 Conflict Management
 Introduction to Conflict Management
 Levels of Conflict
 Managing Conflict
 Time Management
 Concept
116
 Importance and Need
 Steps towards better Time Management
Unit V:Memory and Study Skills
 Definition and importance of memory
 Causes of forgetting
 How to forget (thought stopping), how to remember (techniques for
improving memory)
 The technique of passing exams-Management of examination fear.
PRACTICAL TRAINING
The course would include the following practical exercises.
 Ice- breaking. Brainstorming and simulation exercises. Thought stopping.
Memory and study skills training
 Role play and record work
REFERENCES
1. Mile, D.J (2004). Power of positive thinking. Delhi: Rohan Book Company.
2. Pravesh Kumar (2005). All about self- Motivation. New Delhi: Goodwill
Publishing House.
3. Dudley, G.A. (2004). Double your learning power. Delhi: Konark Press.
Thomas Publishing Group Ltd.
4. Lorayne, H. (2004). How to develop a super power memory. Delhi: Konark
Press. Thomas Publishing Group Ltd.
5. Hurlock, E.B (2006). Personality Development, 28th Reprint. New Delhi:
Tata Mc Graw Hill.
6. Windshuttle, Keith and Elizabeth Elliot.1999. Writing, Researching and
Communicating: Communication Skills for the Information Age. 3rd Reprint.
Tata McGraw-Hill. Australia
7. Dignen, Flinders and Sweeney. English 365. Cambridge University Press
8. Goleman, Daniel. 1998. Working with Emotional Intelligence. Bantam
Books. New York
9. Jones, Leo and Richard Alexander. 2003. New International Business
English. Cambridge University Press
10. Lucas, Stephen.2001. Art of Public Speaking. Mc-Graw Hill.
11. Tamblyn, Doni and Sharyn Weiss. 2000. The Big Book OF Humorous
Training Games. 2004 Edition. Tata McGraw-Hill. New Delhi
12. Personality Development by Rajiv K. Mishra. Rupa & Co.
13. Powell. In Company. Macmillan
14. Cotton, et al. Market Leader. Longman
15. Pease, Allan. 1998. Body Language: How to Read Others Thoughts by
their Gestures. Sudha Publications. New Delhi
117
16. Gardner, Howard. 1993. Multiple Intelligences: The Theory in Practice: A
Reader. Basic Books. New York
17. De Bono, Edward. 2000. Six Thinking Hats. 2nd Edition. Penguin Books.
18. De Bono, Edward. 1993. Serious Creativity. Reprint. Harper Business.
19. Mohan, Krishna and Meera Bannerji, 2001, Developing Communication
Skills. Macmillan.
20. V. Syamala, 2002. Effective English Communication for you. Emerald
Publishers, Chennai.
118
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(CED1120) DESIGN OF STEEL STRUCTURES
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Know about the manufacturing process of steel, types of steel and their
properties
• Understand the salient features of Limit State Method of design of Steel
structures.
• Understand the various codal provisions given in IS. 800.
• Know the behaviour of steel structures under tension, compression and
flexure.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Design the tension members and compression members.
• Design the slab and gusset type column bases.
• Design the welded plate girder and various stiffeners.
• Design the various components of roof trusses.
UNIT-I
Materials-Manufacturing of iron and steel-types of structural steel-mechanical
properties of steel-concepts of plasticity-yield strength-loads and combinations-local
buckling behavior of steel-concept of limit state design-limit states-design strengths-
deflection limits-serviceability-stability check
Bolted connections-IS:800-2007 specifications-Design strength-efficiency of joint-
prying action-welded connections-Types of welded joints-specifications-design
requirements-Eccentric connections
UNIT-II
Design of tension members-Design strength-Design procedure- splice-lug angles
Design of compression members - buckling - slenderness ratio – Load carrying
capacity-laced columns-battened columns-splice-column base
Slab base-Gusseted base
UNIT-III
Design of beams-plastic moment-bending and shear strength/buckling- built up
sections-laterally supported beams
UNIT-IV
Design of welded plate girder-elements-economical depth-design of main section-
connections between web and flange-design of bearing stiffener-intermediate
stiffeners-design of web splice and flange splice
UNIT-V:
Design of Roof Trusses –Types of roof trusses - loads on roof trusses – purlin design
- Analysis and design Roof trusses – Design of connections
119
TEXT BOOKS
1. Limit state Design of Steel Structures by S K Duggal, TMH, and New Delhi.
2. Design of Steel Structures by N Subramanian, Oxford University Press
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Design of Steel Structures by S.S. Bhavikatti (By limit state method), IK
international Publishing House Pvt. Limited.
2. Limit state Design of steel structures by Dr.V L Shaw, Structures
Publications, Pune
I.S.Codes:
1. IS 800: 2007
2. IS: 875 ( Part III)
3. Steel Tables.
Note:
Question paper pattern for Final Examination :
The end examination paper should consist of Part-A and Part-B. Part-A consists of
two questions in Design and Drawing out of which one question is to be answered
for 25 marks. Part-B consists of Five questions on design out of which three are to
be answered for 45 marks(15 x 3).
120
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(CED1121) ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Identify the sources of water supply and water quality standards
• Define the terms of water supply engineering and Describe the water
treatment process and distribution networks
• Define the terms of wastewater engineering and Design the sewers
• Describe and design waste water treatment process
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge of the water borne diseases and water sources
• Develop skills in designing the water treatment plant.
• Acquire the knowledge of the estimation of sewage and storm water
• Develop skills in design of sewers, waste water treatment units
UNIT – I
Introduction
Importance and Necessity of Protected Water Supply systems, Objectives of
Protected water supply system, Flow chart of public water supply system, Role of
Environmental Engineer, Agency activities. Water Demand and Quantity studies :
Estimation of water demand for a town or city, Types of water demands, Per capita
Demand, Factors affecting the Per Capita Demand, Variations in the Demand,
Design Period, Factors affecting the Design period, Population Studies, Population
Forecasting Studies. Quality and Analysis of Water: Characteristics of water,
Impurities in water, Water borne diseases. Drinking water quality standards.
UNIT - II
Sources of water, Capacity of storage reservoirs, Infiltration galleries, Intakes-Types
, Conveyance of Water , Types of Pipes, Pipe Materials, Pipe joints, Design aspects
of pipe lines, Laying of pipe lines.
UNIT - III
Treatment of Water
Flowchart of water treatment plant, Treatment methods (Theory and Design) -
Sedimentation, Coagulation, Sedimentation with Coagulation, Filtration, Chlorination
and other Disinfection methods Distribution system-Components, methods, Layout.
Requirement of good system
UNIT-IV
Introduction to Sewage
Sewage characteristics – Physical, Chemical and Biological Examination–
decomposition- cycles of decomposition-– Sampling and analysis of wastewater –
BOD-COD-Treatment of sewage –Primary treatment
121
UNIT–V
Secondary treatment
Aerobic and anaerobic treatment process-Activated Sludge Process, Trickling Filters
– mechanism of impurities removal- classification–sewage disposal methods-sludge
drying beds, dewatering, oxidation ditch. Anaerobic Processes: Septic Tanks and
Imhoff tanks-Principles and Design-sludge treatment, digestion, drying and sludge
disposal
TEXT BOOKS
1. Environmental Engineering – Peavy, Rowe, Tchenobolus
2. Elements of Environmental Engineering – K.N. Duggal
3. Water Supply and Sanitary Engineering – G.S.Birdie and J.S.Birdie
4. Water Supply Engineering and Waste water Engineering – Dr. P.N.Modi
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Wastewater Engineering Treatment and Reuse by Metcalf & Eddy, Tata
McGraw-Hill edition.
2. Environmental Engineering –I : Water supply Engineering, by Garg , S.K.
Khanna Publishers
3. Environmental Engineering –II : Sewage disposal and Air Pollution
Engineering, by Garg, S.K. Khanna Publishers.
122
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(CED1122) GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING – II
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• To create ability to solve foundation engineering problems.
• Develop an understanding of sampling techniques in soils.
• Understanding the impact of engineering solutions related to the ground
stability.
• To create an understanding to design shallow and deep foundations.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Develop an ability to apply knowledge of foundation engineering to improve
stability of the slopes.
• An ability to design an effective foundation system for economic and safe
aspects.
• An understanding of the various problems related to the different types of
foundations and their adoption to site conditions.
• An awareness on the available foundation systems and ability to select the
best suited to the soil condition
UNIT – I
Subsoil Exploration
Methods of subsoil exploration Direct, semi direct and indirect methods, Soundings
by Standard, Dynamic cone and static cone penetration tests, Types of Boring,
Types of samples, Criteria for undisturbed samples, Transport and preservation of
samples, Borelogs, planning of exploration programmes, report writing.
UNIT – II
Earth slope stability
Infinite and finite earth slopes – types of failures – factor of safety of infinite slopes –
stability analysis by Swedish arc method, standard method of slices, Bishop‘s
Simplified method– Taylor‘s Stability Number- Stability of slopes of earth dams
under different conditions.
UNIT – III
Earth Pressure
Types of Earth pressure. Rankines Active and passive earth pressure, Smooth
Vertical wall with horizontal backfill. Extension to Soil Coloumbs wedge theory,
Culmans and Rebhanns graphical method for active earth pressure. RETAINING
WALLS: Types of retaining walls - Stability of retaining walls.
UNIT – IV
Bearing Capacity
123
Safe bearing capacity and allowable bearing pressure, Terzaghi‘s bearing capacity
equations its modifications for square, rectangular and circular foundation, General
and local shear failure conditions. Factors affecting bearing capacity of Soil.
Allowable bearing pressure based on N-values. Bearing capacity from plate load
tests. Shallow Foundations : Factors effecting locations of foundation and design
considerations of shallow foundations, choice of type of foundations. Foundations
on expansive soils.
Settlement analysis
Causes of settlement, Computation of settlement, allowable settlement. Measures to
reduce settlement.
UNIT – V
Pile Foundations
Types, Construction, load carrying capacity of single pile – Dynamic Formula, Static
formula, Pile load tests, Load carrying capacity of pile groups, settlement of pile
groups, Negative skin friction.
TEXT BOOKS :
1. Analysis, Design of foundations and Earth retaining structures by
Shamsher Prakash, Gopal Ranjan and Swami Saran, IBH Publishers
2. Foundation Analysis and Design by J. E. Bowles.,Tata Mc-Graw Hill
Publishers
3. Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering by K.R. Arora,Standard
Publishers
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Foundation Design By W.C Teng, Prentice Hall Publishers
2. Geotechnical Engineering by VNS Murthy, CBS Publishers
3. Geotechnical Engineering by S.K.Gulhati & Manoj Datta
124
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(CED1123)TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• learn on test on aggregates materials used road constructions along with
its specifications for testing.
• learn on Bitumen grading used for pavement constructions
• learn on tests on Bitumen materials along with its specifications.
• learn on test are performed for Bitumen mixes.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• identify aggregate used in pavements along with its suitability
• identify and select the various Design strategies of pavement using Lab
Equipment.
• evaluate on bitumen grades.
• valuate stability and tensile strength parameters for bitumen mixes.
UNIT – I
Highway development & planning
Brief Introduction; Jayakar Committee recommendations; Classification of roads;
Highway planning in India. Factors controlling alignment; Engineering surveys,
Drawing & report.
UNIT – II
Highway geometric design
Highway cross-section elements; Sight distance; Design of horizontal alignment;
Design of vertical alignment.
Pavement materials and characterisation
IS Soil Classification; CBR Tests; Plate bearing tests; Stone aggregates; Bitumen
materials; Paving mixes.
UNIT – III
Railway engineering
Role of railways in transportation; Comparison of railway and highway transportation;
railway track Alignment of railway track; Requirement of Good track, Alignment,
Gauges in Railway track, Railway track cross – sections; Coning of wheels Rails &
Rail Joints- Functions of rails; Requirements of rails; Types of rails sections;
Standard rail sections; Length of rails; Rail failures; Wear on rails, Creep of rails.
Requirements of an ideal joint; Types of rail joints; Welding of rails
Sleepers & ballast
Functions of sleepers; Requirements of sleepers; Classification of Sleepers – Timber
sleepers, Metal sleepers & Concrete sleepers; Comparison of different types of
sleepers. Ballast- Functions and requirements of ballast; Types of ballast; Renewal
125
of ballast.
UNIT - IV
Geometric design of track
Necessity; Gradients & Gradient Compensation; Elements of horizontal alignment;
Super elevation; Cant deficiency and cant excess; Negative Super elevation; Length
of Transition Curve, Length of vertical curve. Points and crossing- function – left and
right hand turn out
Signalling
Objects of signaling; Classification of signals; Essentials of inter – locking; Methods
of interlocking. Standards of inter locking
UNIT – V
Airport planning and design
Development of air transportation system with particular reference to India;
Aeroplane components; Air–craft characteristics, Selection of site; Apron; Hanger;
Typical airport layouts; Airport marking; Airport lighting; Drainage systems. Airport
obstruction - Zoning laws; Classification of obstructions; Imaginary surfaces;
Approach zone; Turning zone.
Runway design
Runway orientation; Basic runway length; Corrections for elevation; Temperature
and gradient; Runway geometric design.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Highway Engineering by S. K. Khanna & C. E. G. Justo; Nemchand &
Brothers, Roorkee.
2. Railway engineering by S.C. Saxena and S. Arora; Dhanpat Rai & Sons;
Delhi.
3. Airport planning and Design by S.K. Khanna & M.G Arora; Nemchand &
Bros, Roorkee.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Principles of Transportation Engineering by Partha Chakroborty & Aminesh
Das; Prentice Hall of India, New Delhi.
2. Transport planning and Traffic Engineering by Dr. L. R. Kadiyali
3. Highway Engineering by B.L.Gupta
126
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(CED1124) ESTIMATING AND COSTING
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Understands the terms of estimation.
• calculate detailed estimate of buildings
• do rate analysis of quantities
• understand the types of valuating the property
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Evaluate the detailed estimate of RC building
• Evaluate the detailed estimate of roads, doors, irrigation works
• Understands the importance of valuation
• Understands what type of contract is used for a specific Work
UNIT-I
Estimate - explanation of terms - contingencies - work charged establishments -
provisional sum - lumpsum item - centage charge - types of estimate - revised
estimate - supplementary estimate - maintenance estimate - approximate estimate -
plinth area method - cubic rate method - unit rate method - bay method -
approximate quantity from bill method - comparison method - cost from materials
and labour. - preparation of detailed estimate for R.C building - centre line method
and long wall - short wall method - methods of measurements of different items of
work.
UNIT-II
Preparation of detailed estimate for sanitary and water supply works - roads -
irrigation works - doors and windows - detailed specifications for common building
materials and items of work as per I.S specifications - calculation of quantities of
materials for items of work.
UNIT-III
Preparation of conveyance statement - analysis of rate for items of works required
for civil engineering works - preparation of abstract of estimate of civil engineering
works. Preparation of bar bending schedule for some typical RCC elements.
UNIT-IV
Competitive bidding- Local competitive bidding, global bidding, item rate contract
percentage rate contract and Lumpsum contract. Preparing tender papers- Invitation
of tenders, tender notice, tender documents, (various terms and conditions to
contracts) submission. Scrutiny and acceptance. Award of jobs. Rights and
responsibilities of parties to contracts. Negotiated contracts. Cost plus percentage.
Cost plus fixed fees. Cost plus sliding scale of fees. Target cost as based on sharing
risk and profits. Turnkey contracts. More than two party contracts.
127
UNIT-V
Valuation - explanation of items - types of values - sinking fund - years purchase -
depreciation - straight line method - constant percentage method - S.F method -
obsolescence - valuation tables - valuation of real property - rental method - profit
based method - depreciation method - valuation of land - belting method -
development method - hypothecated building scheme method - rent calculation -
lease and lease hold property.
Text Books :
1. Estimating and Costing by B.N.Dutta, UBS Publishers, 2000
2. Estimating and Costing by G.S.Birdie
128
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(CED1208) GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING LAB
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• To introduce traditional program consisting mostly of practical courses
related to geotechnical engineering.
• To apply the knowledge of science, mathematics and engineering with the
context of applications in geotechnical engineering.
• To design and conduct experiments, analyze and interpret data related to
the various laboratory tests studied in geotechnical engineering.
• To classify the soils based on the properties
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• An ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools
necessary for engineering practice.
• An opportunity to work in groups
• An ability to identify, formulate and practice the various soil identification
and classification tests.
• An ability to select, formulate or enhance the testing facilitates to cater the
requirement of selection of proper soil type as per the requirement.
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
1. Determination Of Moisture Content
2. Determination Of Specific Gravity
3. Field Density Test
4. Grain Size Analysis
A. Sieve Analysis
B. Hydrometer Analysis
5. Determination Of Consistency Limits
6. Permeability Test
A. Constant Head Method
B. Falling Head Method
7. CBR Test
8. Proctor Light And Heavy Compaction Test
9. Vane Shear Test
10. Direct Shear Test
11. Unconfined Compression Test
12. Unconsolidated and Undrained Triaxial Test
129
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(CED1209) TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING LAB
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• learn on test on aggregates materials used road constructions along with
its specifications for testing.
• learn on Bitumen grading used for pavement constructions
• learn on tests on Bitumen materials along with its specifications.
• learn on test are performed for Bitumen mixes.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• identify aggregate used in pavements along with its suitability
• identify and select the various Design strategies of pavement using Lab
Equipment.
• evaluate on bitumen grades.
• valuate stability and tensile strength parameters for bitumen mixes.
Test on Road Aggregates
1. Aggregate Crushing Value
2. Aggregate Impact Value
3. Los Angeles Abrasion Test.
4. Shape Tests a) Elongation Index, b) Flakiness Index, c) Angularity
Number.
Test on Bitumen
1. Penetration Test
2. Softening Point test
3. Ductility Test
4. Viscosity grading
5. Bitumen Extraction Tests
Test on Bituminous Mixes
1. Marshal Stability Test
2. In-direct Tensile Test
*Note: Bituminous Mix design is carried as per MORT&H & IRC specifications.
130
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ENG1204) ADVANCED ENGLISH COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
Introduction: This course aims to offer students a practical approach to Technical
Writing, and provide a relevant, contemporary and authoritative introduction to the
dynamic field of technical communication that prepares them for Workplace
Communication. Each unit in the syllabus is devised so as to include a writing
component as well as an oral component.
The objectives of this course are to
i) expose students to workplace writing
ii) initiate them into the Process of Technical Communication
iii) enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content
iv) enable students to produce documents reflecting different types of
technical communication such as Abstracts, Proposals and Technical
Reports through ample practice
v) enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific
target audience
vi) groom students in behavioral skills
Methodology
Written Communication Component
A Process- Genre methodology will be used in teaching the technical genres. This
method would enable students to understand the use of particular lexico-
grammatical patterns required of in the context of technical writing. They would learn
to use language to express the particular communicative intent that is required of in
the context of writing these genres.
Objectives of Writing Component
i) enable students to write clearly and succintly
ii) equip students with the ability to write technical
genres
iii) Oral Communication Component
The objective of including Oral Communication is to impart behavioral skills and
prepare students to speak to a large group or team, keeping in mind the audience,
context and purpose of communication. This Oral Communication component must
enable students to speak in an organized and mature way, without any inhibitions.
They will be groomed to relate their speech to their audience.
131
Objectives of Oral Communication Component
i) equip students with Behavioral skills
ii) prepare them for Oral presentations, and Group Discussions
iii) equip them with Interview skills
Syllabus Outline
Unit I
Writing Skills 1
1. Applications and Covering letters
2. Resume Writing
3. Verbal Ability
4. Oral Communication :Talking About Yourself
Unit II
1. Writing an SOP
2. Summarizing and Synthesizing Information
3. Oral Communication: Making Presentations
Unit III
1. Writing Project Proposals
2. Oral Communication: Group Discussions
Unit IV
1. Writing Project Reports
2. Oral Communication: Interview Skills
Unit V.
Behavioral Skills and Personality Development
1. Building a positive attitude, building a positive personality, Motivation,
goal setting & values & vision
2. Problem Solving and Decision Making; Negotiation Skills through Role
Play
3. Team Building and Leadership Abilities
4. Social Etiquette
REQUIRED TEXT AND MATERIALS
1. Ashraf Rizvi, M (2005). Effective Technical Communication, Tata Mc Graw
Hill Publishing Company Limited, New Delhi.
2. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical
Communication: A Reader-Centered Approach ( 5th ed..) (pp. 457-473).
Boston: Heinle.
3. William S. Pfeiffer, (2010) Technical Communication: A Practical Approach
(7th ed.). Prentice Hall
References
1. Burnett, Rebecca. Technical Communication. 5th Ed., Heinle, 2001
2. Bolter, Jay David. ( 2001). The late age of print. In Robert P.
Yagelski's (Ed.) Literacies and Technologies: A Reader for
Contemporary Writers (135-145). New York: Longman.
132
3. Brandt, Deborah. (1998). Sponsors of literacy. College Composition
and Communication 49.2, 165-185.
4. Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson : Technical Writing Process
and Product. 3rd edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
5. Johnson-Sheehan, Richard. (2007). Starting Your Career. In Richard
Johnson-Sheehan's Technical Communication Today (2nd ed.) (pp.
388-402). New York: Longman.
6. Markel, Mike. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies
(8th EDITION (2006-2007)
7. R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan, Business Correspondence and Report
Writing, Third Edition, TMH, 2002. (Indian Edition)
8. M. Raman and S. Sharma, Technical Communication : Principles and
Practices, OUP, 2004. (Indian Edition)
133
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(CED1125) FINITE ELEMENT METHODS
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Understand the general steps of finite element methods.
• Understand the basic finite element formulation techniques.
• Equip the students with the Finite Element Analysis fundamentals.
• Enable the students to perform engineering simulations using Finite
Element Analysis software (ANSYS)
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• An ability to solve multi-disciplinary problems
• Ability to derive equations in finite element methods for 1Dand 2D
problems.
• Ability to formulate and solve basic problems in structural mechanics using
different elements.
• Ability to apply knowledge of mathematics and Engineering
UNIT -I
Introduction
Concepts of FEM – Steps involved – merits & demerits – energy principles –
Discretization.
Principles of Elasticity: Equilibrium equations – strain displacement relationships in
matrix form – Constitutive relationships for plane stress, plane strain and Axi-
symmetric bodies of revolution with axi-symmetric loading.
UNIT -II
One Dimensional FEM
Stiffness matrix for bar element, beam element, plane truss - shape functions for
one dimensional elements – one dimensional problems.
UNIT –III
Two Dimensional FEM
Different types of elements for plane stress and plane strain analysis – Displacement
models – generalized coordinates – shape functions – convergent and compatibility
requirements – Geometric invariance – Natural
coordinate system – area and volume coordinates
UNIT –IV
Isoparametric formulation
Concepts of, isoparametric elements for 2D analysis -formulation of CST element, 4
–noded and 8-noded iso-parametric quadrilateral elements –Lagrangian and
Serendipity elements.
UNIT-V
134
Solution Techniques
Numerical Integration, Static condensation, assembly of elements and solution
techniques for static loads.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Finite Elements Methods in Engineering by Tirupati.R. Chandrepatla and
Ashok
D. Belegundu - Pearson Education Publications.
2. Finite element analysis by S.S. Bhavakatti-New age international publishers
3. Finite element analysis by David V Hutton, Tata Mcgraw Hill, New Delhi
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Concepts and Applications of Finite Element Analysis by Robert D.Cook,
David
S. Malkus and Michael E.Plesha. Jhon Wiley & Sons.
2. Finite Element analysis – Theory & Programming by C.S.Krishna Murthy-
Tata Mc.Graw Hill Publishers.
3. Text book of Finite Element analysis by P.Seshu – Prentice Hall of India
135
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(CED1126) ELEMENTS OF RS & GIS
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• The remote sensing serves the purpose of accurate mapping of all features
under different spatial and temporal scales of all kinds of terrain and land
under water bodies.
• The remote sensing is advantageous comparatively to traditional surveying
techniques in terms of time, accuracy and output.
• Remote sensing serves the purpose of predictions of all scales.
• GIS is software which can be used for collecting, storing and analyzing of
data which is useful for real world applications.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Based on the objective of study a student should have thorough knowledge
to choose the remote sensing image from different sensors, resolutions,
spatial and temporal scales.
• Remote sensing gives the provision of understanding and to comprehend
large tracks of earth surface with less time and cost but more accuracy.
• In case of dam construction, for a civil engineer it is must to have
knowledge of resource richness of an area, flow rates in stream, channel
geometry with respect to time, magnitudes of movement in crust, habitations
etc.
• By GIS the student can communicate to the common man his analysis of
different problems developments, benefits by preparing different thematic
maps.
UNIT – I
Introduction to Photogrammetry
Introduction to aerial photography and photogrammetry. Principle and types of aerial
photographs, stereoscopy, Map Vs Stereoscopy, Map Vs Mosaic, ground control,
Parallax measurements for height, determinations.
UNIT – II
Concepts of Remote Sensing
Basics of remote sensing- elements involved in remote sensing, electromagnetic
spectrum, remote sensing terminology & units, energy resources, energy interactions
with earth surface features & atmosphere, atmospheric effects, satellite orbits,
Sensor Resolution, types of sensors. Remote Sensing Platforms and Sensors, IRS
satellites.
UNIT – III
Remote Sensing Data Interpretation
136
Visual interpretation techniques, basic elements, converging evidence, interpretation
for terrain evaluation, spectral properties of soil, water and vegetation. Concepts of
Digital image processing, image enhancements, qualitative & quantitative analysis
and pattern recognition, classification techniques and accuracy estimation.
UNIT – IV
Geographic Information System
Introduction, GIS definition & terminology, GIS categories, components of GIS,
fundamental operations of GIS, A theoretical framework for GIS, Data collection &
input overview, data input & output, keyboard entry & co-ordinate geometry
procedure, manual digitizing & scanning, Raster GIS, Vector GIS-File management,
Spatial data- Layer based GIS, Feature based GIS mapping spatial analysis with
raster and vector data. overview of GPS.
UNIT – V
Applications of Remote Sensing and GIS
Land Use Land Cover mapping, agricultural applications, oceanographic
applications, urban and regional planning applications, water resources applications,
environmental studies and disaster management applications.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Remote sensing and its applications by LRA Narayana University Press
1999
2. Principals of Geophysical Information Systems-Peter A.Burragh & Rachael
A.Mc.Donnell, Oxford Publishers 2004.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Concepts & Techniques of GIS by C.P.Lo Albert, K.W.Young, Prentice Hall
(India) Publications
2. Remote Sensing & Geographical Information systems by M.Anji Reddy
JNTU
Hyderabad 2001, B.S.Publications.
3. GIS by Kang-tsung chang, TMH Publications & Co.
4. Basics of Remote Sensing & GIS by S.Kumar, Laxmi Publications
5. Fundamentals of GIS by Mechanical designs John Wiley & Sons
137
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(CED1127) ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Understand Environmental Impacts and the terminology
• Understands the environmental Impact assessment procedure
• Understands the EIA methodology
• Understand s environmental audits
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge of Environmental impacts
• Understand environmental clearances and guidelines
• Understands to prepare an audit report
• Understands environment laws and regulations
UNIT – I
Introduction to EIA, Definition of EIA and EIS. Preparation of EIS, Elements of EIA,
Classification of Environmental parameter, Initial Environmental Examination,
Preparation of Environmental Base map EIA procedure
UNIT – II
EIA methodology: Introduction, criteria for selection of EIA Methodology,
EIA methods, Adhoc method, Matrix method, Network method, Environmental media
quality Index method, Overlays method, Cost benefit analysis method
UNIT – III
Environmental impacts, Identification measurement, Aggregation, Secondary and
Cumulative Impacts, Environmental Guidelines and procedures, Environmental
clearance, Environmental Appraisal Procedure, Single window Clearance, Time
frame, Post project monitoring, Procedure for obtaining Environmental clearance for
industries, Forest clearance, Consent to operate Industrial unit, Consent to handle
hazardous chemicals in the Industrial unit
UNIT – IV
Assessment of Impact of developmental Activities on soil, ground water, surface
water vegetation, air, vegetation, wild life, Noise, Socio Economic Environment,
Environmental impact of Deforestation-Causes and effects of Deforestation
UNIT – V
Environmental Audit Types of environmental Audit ,Audit protocol, Stages of
Environmental Audit onsite activities ,evaluation of audit data and preparation of
Audit Report, Post Audit Activities, Case studies On EIA, Environmental laws and
regulations-Air act, Water act, environmental protection act.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Environmental Impact Analysis – Urban & Jain.
138
2. Environmental Impact Analysis – Canter, Mc. Graw Hill Publishers
3. Environmental Impact Analysis -Y.Anjaneyulu
139
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-I 4 0 4
(CED1128) EARTHQUAKE RESISTANT DESIGN OF BUILDINGS
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Understand Engineering Seismology
• understand single degree of freedom systems subjected to free and forced
vibrations
• understand the principles of earthquake resistant design
• understand the importance of ductile detailing of RC structures
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Understand the causes of earthquakes, magnitude & intensity of
earthquakes
• Evaluate the displacement for free vibrations of SDOF systems
• Evaluate base shear using Seismic coefficient method and Response
Spectrum methods
• Detail the reinforcement as per ductility requirements
UNIT-I
Engineering Seismology
Earthquake phenomenon-causes of earthquakes-Theories on earthquake causes-
Plate tectonics-Seismic waves -Magnitude and Intensity of earthquake-Energy
released-Earthquake measuring Instruments-Seismograph-Accelerograph-Seismic
zones of India
UNIT-II
Theory of Vibrations
Elements of vibrating system-Degrees of freedom-Continuous system-Lumped mass
idealization-Oscillatory motion-Free vibrations of Single degree of freedom system-
undamped, damped and critical damping-logarithmic decrement-Forced vibrations of
SDOF-Harmonic loading
UNIT-III
Conceptual Design
Introduction to functional planning-Continuous load path-Overall form-simplicity and
symmetry-elongated shapes-stiffness and strength-Horizontal and vertical members-
Twisting of buildings-flexible buildings-framing systems-unconfined concrete and
confined concrete-reinforcing steel-lateral load resisting systems- irregularities in
buildings
UNIT-IV
Basic assumptions, principles in earthquake resistant designs-permissible stresses-
Seismic methods of analysis based on IS:1893-Equivalent lateral force method-
Dynamic analysis-Response spectrum method, Time history method
140
UNIT-V
Ductility considerations in earthquake resistant design of RC buildings-Impact of
ductility-requirements for ductility-Assesment of ductility-Factors affecting ductility-
Ductile detailing considerations as per IS:13920-Behaviour of beams, columns and
joints in RC buildings during earthquake-Vulnerability of Open ground storey and
short columns during earthquakes
TEXT BOOKS
1. Earthquake Resistant Design of Structures-S.K.Duggal,Oxford University
Press
2. Earthquake Resistant Design of Structures-Pankaj Agarwal and Manish
Shrikhande,Prentice Hall of India Pvt.Ltd.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Seismic Design of Reinforced Concrete and Masonry buildings-T.Paulay
and M.J.N Pristly,John Wiley &Sons
2. Earthquake Tips-Learning Earthquake Design and Construction-
C.V.R.Murthy
REFERENCE CODES
1. IS: 1893(Part-1)-2002, ―Criteria for Earthquake Resistant Design of
structures‖, B.I.S.,New Delhi
2. IS: 13920-1993, ―Ductile detailing of Concrete structures subjected to
seismic force‖-guidelines,B.I.S. New Delhi
141
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
Elective-I
(CED1129) ADVANCED STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• To apply the Displacement methods of analysis to frames with inclines legs
and gable frames.
• To understand the effects of moving loads on indeterminate structures
• To understand the flexibility and stiffness methods of analysis of beams,
frames and plane trusses
• To understand plastic analysis of beams and frames
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Ability to apply the displacement method to complex structural systems.
• Ability to understand the qualitative use of influence lines of indeterminate
beams and Trusses to loading positions for maximum internal forces
• Appreciate the advantage of using the displacement methods over force
methods for various structures.
• Understand the plastic analysis of structures and be able to determine
collapse load and collapse for beams and frames
UNIT - I
Moment Distribution method: Application to the analysis of portal frames with inclined
legs, gable frames
UNIT - II
Kani‘s method-symmetrical frames-Applications to 2-storey- two bay portal frames
UNIT - III
Influence lines for Indeterminate structures : Muller -Breslau principles for statically
Indeterminate beams , Influence line diagrams for Reaction, Shearing force and
Bending moment in case of Indeterminate beams and Influence line diagrams for
member forces in statically Indeterminate trusses
UNIT – IV
Flexibility Method: Introduction to the structural analysis by flexibility concept using
Matrix approach and application to continuous beams
Stiffness method: Introduction to the structural analysis by stiffness concept using
Matrix approach and application to Plane frames and Plane Trusses.
UNIT – V
Plastic Analysis: Introduction – Idealized stress – Strain diagram – shape factors for
various sections – Moment curvature relationship – ultimate moment – Plastic hinge
– lower and upper bound theorems – ultimate strength of fixed and continuous
142
beams.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Matrix methods of Structural Analysis by Pandit and Gupta – Tata Mc.Graw
Hill
2. Analysis of structures Vol. I & II by Vazrani and Ratwani. Khanna
publications.
3. Comprehensive Structural Analysis Vol.1 & 2 by Dr. Vaidyanathan and Dr.
P.Perumal - by Laxmi, publications Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Structural Analysis by D.S.Prakash Rao - Sagar books
2. Structural Analysis Vol. I & II by Bhavi Katti Vikas Publications.
3. Matrix structural analysis by T.N.Gayl; Tata Mc.Graw Hill company
143
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
Elective-I
(CED1130) ADVANCED STRUCTURAL DESIGN
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• To understand the basic concepts of design of combined footings and
Retaining walls
• To Equip them to select the suitable types of water tanks
• To make them understand the design considerations of Concrete bridges
under different loading classes.
• Familiarity with professional and contemporary design issues
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• design the Retaining walls
• Design the RCC water tanks and staircases
• appreciate the advantage of selecting the suitable bridges for certain
applications.
• design gantry girders and steel bridges under different loading
considerations
UNIT – I
Design of combined footings, Design of cantilever retaining wall, Design of counter
fort retaining wall
UNIT – II
Design of staircases, Design of RCC water tanks - Circular and Rectangular types.
UNIT – III
Design of Concrete bridges - IRC loading, Design of slab bridge and T - beam
bridge.
UNIT – IV
Design of Steel gantry girders
UNIT – V
Design of steel bridges – loadings – design of plate girder bridges.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Advanced Reinforced concrete structures by Varghese, PHI, New Delhi.
2. Design & Drawing of concrete and steel structures by N.Krishna Raju
University Press
3. Reinforced concrete structures Vol-2 by by B.C.Punmia, Ashok Kumar Jain
and Arun Kumar Jain, Laxmi, publications Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Essentials of Bridge Engineering by D.John son Victor, Oxford and IBM
publication Co., Pvt. Ltd.
144
2. Reinforced concrete design by S.U,Pillai and D.Menon, TMH, New Delhi.
Note:
Question paper pattern for Final Examination:
The end examination paper should consist of Part-A and Part-B. Part-A
consists of two questions in Design and Drawing out of which one question
is to be answered for 25 marks. Part-B consists of Five questions on
design out of which three are to be answered for 45 marks(15 x 3).
145
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-I 4 0 4
(CED1131) GROUND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• To impart to the students the concepts of Groundwater Development and
Management.
• To enable the students to understand the basic equations used in
Groundwater
• To enable the students to solve analytical problems
• To enable the students to do conduct basic ground water studies
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Use Darcy‘s law
• Derive differential equation governing groundwater flow in three dimensions
• Do analysis of pumping tests in steady and non steady flow cases
• Understand the saline water intrusion problem in groundwater
UNIT-I
Ground Water Occurrence
Ground water hydrologic cycle, origin of ground water, rock properties effecting
ground water, Vertical distribution of ground water, zone of aeration and zone of
saturation, geologic formation as aquifers, types of aquifers, porosity, specific yield
and specific retention. Ground Water Movement-Permeability, Darcy‘s law, storage
coefficient, Transmissivity, Differential equation governing ground water flow in three
dimensions derivation, ground water flow equation in polar coordinate system,
ground water flow contours and their applications.
UNIT-II
Analysis of Pumping Test Data-I
Steady flow ground water flow towards a well in confined and unconfined aquifers-
Dupit‘s and Theism‘s equations, assumptions, formation constants, yield of an open
well interface and well tests.
UNIT-III
Analysis of Pumping Test Data-II
Unsteady flow towards well-Non Equilibrium equations, Thesis solution, Jocob and
Chow‘s simplifications, Leak aquifers.
UNIT-IV
Surface and sub-surface Investigation
surface methods of exploration-Electrical resistivity method and Seismic refraction
methods. Subsurface methods geophysical logging and resistivity logging.Concept of
artificial recharge of ground water ,recharge methods,Applications of GIS and RS in
artificial recharge of ground water along with case studies.
146
UNIT-V
Saline water intrusion in aquifer
Occurrence of saline water intrusion, Ghyben-Herzberg relation, Shape of interface,
control of water intrusion. Ground water basin management-case studies.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Ground water Hydrology by David Keith Todd, John Wiley & Son, New
York.
2. Ground water by H.M. Raghunath, Wiley Eastern Ltd.
3. Ground water by Bawvwr, John Wiley & Sons.
4. Applied Hydrogeology by c.W.Fetta, CBS Publishers & Distributors.
147
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
Elective-I
(CED1132) DESIGN AND DRAWING OF HYDRAULIC STRUCTURES
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• The basic aim is to understand and control of flows in open channels and
canals for the benefit of society.
• To get hand-on experience in drawing of irrigation and environmental
engineering structures
• To learn about architecture and design of weirs
• To develop design and drawing skills of various energy dissipation
structures
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Analyze and design different dams and select the proper dam for any
practical problem he may encounter in his professional life.
• Analyze, design and draw different spillways and design and supervise the
construction of water conveyance structures.
• Design and draw various canal protection structures.
• Design and draw of various energy dissipation structures.
Design and drawing of the following hydraulic structures.
1. Slopping glacis water
2. Tank sluice with tower head
3. Type III Syphon aqueduct
4. Surplus weir
5. Trapezoidal notch fall
6. Canal regulator
TEXT BOOKS
1. Design of minor irrigation and canal structures by C.Satyanarayana
murthy, Wiley Eastern Ltd.
2. Irrigation engineering and Hydraulic Structures by S.K.Garg, Standard
Book House.
148
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
Elective-I
(CED1133) TRAFFIC ENGINEERING
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Perform maintenance operations for traffic signals and signal systems
under County jurisdiction.
• Perform essential operations to fabricate, install and maintain roadway
signs and pavement marking.
• Conduct safety and traffic operations studies to reduce frequency and
severity of crashes and improve mobility.
• Perform parking studies for carrying analysis and improvement of parking
characteristics.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• To understand the human factors in traffic engineering design.
• To design the cross-section and alignment of highway
• To use an appropriate traffic flow theory for traffic characteristics
• To practice the traffic count methods for estimation of capacity at
signalized intersection
UNIT-I
Traffic characteristics
Basic characteristics of Traffic- Volume, Speed and Density- Relationship among
Traffic parameters.
Traffic measurement
Traffic Volume Studies-Objectives- Types of Volume Studies –Concept of PCU- Data
Collection and Presentation – Speed Studies – Types of Speeds- Objectives of
Speed Studies- Methods of Conducting speed studies- Data collection and
Presentation- Statistical Methods for Analysis of Speed Data.
UNIT-II
Highway capacity
Definition of Capacity – Importance of capacity – Factors affecting Capacity-
Concept of Level of Service- Different Levels of Service- Concept of Service Volume-
Peak Hour Factor.
UNIT – III
Parking Studies
Types of parking facilities – On-street and Off Street Parking Facilities- Parking
Studies- Parking Inventory. Study – Parking Survey by Patrolling Method- Analysis of
Parking Data and parking characteristics- Multi Story Car Parking Facility-Design
standards.
149
UNIT –IV
Traffic control & regulation
Traffic Problems in Urban areas- Importance of Traffic Control and regulation- Traffic
Regulatory Measures- Channelization- Traffic Signals- Saturation Flow - Signal
Design by Webster Method – Signal Phasing and Timing Diagrams.
Traffic & environment
Detrimental effect of traffic on environment – Air Pollution – Pollutants due to Traffic
– Measures to reduce Air Pollution due to Traffic- Noise Pollution – Measures to
reduce Noise Pollution.
UNIT -V
Traffic signs and road markings
Types of Traffic Signs- cautionary,Regulatory and Informative Signs- Specifications-
Pavement markings- Types of Markings – Lane markings and Object markings-
Standards and Specifications for Road Markings.
Highway safety
Problem of Highway Safety – Types of Road accidents- Causes – Engineering
Measures to reduce Accidents- Enforcement Measures – Educational Measures-
Road Safety Audit- Principles of Road Safety Audit.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Traffic Engineering and Transportation planning – LK kadiyali – Khanna
publishers.
2. Fundamentals of Transportation Engineering - C.S. Papacostas, Prentice
Hall (India).
REFERENCE BOOKS
Transportation Engineering – An Introduction – C. J. Khisty, Prentice Hall of India
1. Principles of Transportation Engineering – Partha Chakroborthy, Animesh
Das – Prentice Hall of India.
2. Highway Engineering and Traffic Analysis-Mannering and Kilareski, John
wiley Publications.
150
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-I 4 0 4
(CED1134) AIRPORT PLANNING AND DESIGN
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Student will understand the classification of airports and related aircraft
characteristics
• Student will understand the site selection for airport
• Student will explain the grading and drainage of airport
• Student will explain the air traffic control aids
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Design the runway length and estimate the corrected runway length
• Planning and designing the terminal area
• Marking runway and taxiway areas
• Structural design of airport pavements & visual aids
UNIT-I
Introduction & aircraft characteristics
General, Requirements of Aircraft Types, Field Length Regulations, Restrictions On
Payload- Range Performance, Weight Components, Airplane Components Parts,
Military And Civil Aircrafts, Civil Military Co-Ordination, Classification Of Flying
Activity, Relation Of Aircraft To Landing Facility, Aircraft Characteristics, Future
Trends In Aircraft Design
UNIT-II
Airport obstructions & runway design
Zoning Laws, Classification of Obstructions, Turning Zone, Runway Orientation,
Basic Runway Length, Correction for Elevation, Temperature and Gradient, Airport
Classification Runway Geometric Design
UNIT-III
Taxiway design & terminal area
Factors Controlling Taxiway Layout, Geometric Design Standards, Exit Taxiways,
Fillets, Separation Clearance, Holding Apron, Turnaround or Bypass Taxiway
Building and Building Area, Vehicular Circulation and Parking Area, Apron, Hangar,
Blast Considerations, Typical Airport Layouts
UNIT-IV
Airport planning: General, Airport Master Plan, Regional Planning, Data Required
Before Site Selection,Airport Site Selection, Surveys For Site Selection, Drawings To
Be Prepared, Estimation Of Future Air Traffic Needs
UNIT-V
151
Structural design of airport pavements & visual aids
Introduction, Various Design Factors, Design Methods For Flexible Pavements,
Design Method For Air Field Rigid Pavements, Influence Chart For The Moment Mn
In A Concrete Pavement Due To A Load In The Interior Of The Slab, LCN System Of
Pavement Design, Joints In Cement Concrete Pavements, Special Consideration
For Design Of Pavement Facilities For V/Stol Operations, Airport Marking, Airport
Lighting.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Airport planning & Design - S. K. Khanna SS Arora MG Arora Jain
Publications
2. Planning & Design of Airports – Robert M. Horonjeff, Francis X Mc Graw
Hill Professional
REFERENCE BOOKS
Airport Engineering – Norman J Ashford Mc. Graw Hill Professional
152
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
Elective-I
(CED1135) ADVANCED FOUNDATION ENGINEERING
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Create ability to solve foundation engineering problems.
• Develop an understanding of sampling techniques in soils.
• Understanding the impact of engineering solutions related to the ground
stability.
• To create an understanding to design shallow and deep foundations.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Develop an ability to apply knowledge of foundation engineering to improve
stability of the slopes.
• An ability to design an effective foundation system for economic and safe
aspects.
• An understanding of the various problems related to the different types of
foundations and their adoption to site conditions.
• An awareness on the available foundation systems and ability to select the
best suited to the soil condition
UNIT – 1
Soil Exploration & Soil Structure Interaction
Exploration Methods; Planning the Exploration Program; Boring and Sampling; In
Situ Tests: Standard & Cone Penetration Tests, Field Vane & Borehole shear
tests, Dilatometer, Pressure meter Rock Sampling, Core Recovery, Geophysical
Exploration; Preparation of Soil Report, contact pressures and soil structure
interaction for shallow foundations, concept of subgrade modulus,
effects/parameters influencing subgrade modulus.
UNIT – 1I
Shallow Foundations: Bearing Capacity:- General Formulae; Effect of Water
Table; Footings with Eccentric or Inclined Loads, footings on Layered Soils, on slope
and on top of the slopes, on finite layer with a Rigid Base at Shallow Depth, effect of
compressibility of soil, footings on soils with strength increasing with depth.
UNIT – III
Settlement: Components – Immediate, Consolidation & Creep, Stresses and
Displacements in Homogeneous, Layered and Anisotropic Soils; Consolidation
Settlement; One, Two & Three Dimensional Consolidation; Secondary Compression
Settlement; Bearing Pressure using SPT, CPT, Dilatometer and Pressuremeter;
Settlement of foundations on Sands-Schmertmann and Burland & Busbridge
153
methods; Structure Tolerance to Settlement and Differential Settlements, tilting of
Tall Structures.
UNIT – IV
Pile Foundations: Single Pile: Vertically loaded piles, Static capacity-α, β and λ
Methods, Dynamic formulae; Wave Equation Analyses; Point Bearing Resistance
with SPT and CPT Results; Bearing Resistance of Piles on Rock; Settlement; Pile
Load Test; Uplift Resistance; Laterally Loaded Piles –Ultimate Lateral Resistance;
Negative Skin Friction; Batter Piles; Under Reamed Piles; Mini and Micro Piles,
Buckling of Fully and Partially Embedded Piles
Pile groups
Ultimate Capacity of Pile Groups in Compression, Pullout & Lateral Load; Efficiency;
Settlements of Pile Groups; Interaction of Axially & Laterally Loaded Pile Groups.
UNIT – V
Deep Foundations
Well foundations, open well foundations, pneumatic caissons, tilting, measures to
avoid And rectify tilting of wells
TEXT BOOKS
1. Analysis, Design of foundations and Earth retaining structures by
Shamsher Prakash, Gopal Ranjan and Swami Saran.
2. Foundation Analysis and Design – J. E. Bowles.
3. Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering – By K.R. Arora.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Single Piles and Pile Groups under Lateral Loading by Reese, L. C. & Van
Impe,W.F.
154
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
Elective-I
(CED1136) GROUND IMPROVEMENT TECHNIQUES
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• learn and understand various ground improvement technique.
• learn various method of compaction for ground improvement in it strength.
• learn various physical and chemical modification for ground improvement
• learn the method to choose the foundation and or treatment method based
on the site condition.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• select the ground improvement technique which is suitable and economical for soil
strengthening.
• select different techniques based on the various types of soils in-situ.
• design reinforced earth structures.
• exposed to the knowledge on use of geosynthetic material
UNIT – I
In-situ densification methods in granular soils, Vibration at the ground surface,
Impact at the Ground surface, Vibration at depth, Impact at depth. In-situ
densification methods in Cohesive soils, Preloading, Dewatering, Drain wells, Sand
drains, Sandwich geodrains, Stone columns, Lime columns, Thermal methods.
UNIT – II
Reinforced earth principles, Components of reinforced earth walls, Factors governing
design of reinforced earth walls, Design principles of reinforced earth walls.
UNIT – III
Geotextiles: Introduction, Type of geotextiles, Function and their application, tests for
geotextile materials, Geogrids, Functions of geogrids. Expansive soils, Problems in
Expansive soils, Mechanisim of swelling, swell pressure, swell potential, Heave,
Tests for identification, I. S. Test Methods of determination of swell pressure,
Foundation techniques in Expansive soils.
UNIT – IV
Mechanical stabilization: Soil aggregate mixtures, Properties and proportioning
techniques, soft aggregate stabilization, compaction, Field compaction control.
Cement stabilization: Mechanisim-Factors affecting and properties, Uses of
additives, Design of soil-cement mixtures, Construction techniques.
UNIT – V
Lime and Bituminous stabilization: Types of admixtures, Mechanisim, Factors
affecting, Design of mixtures, Construction methods.
TEXT BOOKS
155
1. Ground Improvement Techniques- Dr. G.V.R. Purshotham Raj
2. Designing with Geosynthetics- Robert M. Koerner
3. Foundations on Expansive soils by Chenn.
4. Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering by K.R. Arora; Standard
Publishers, Nai Sarak, New Delhi.
5. Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering by B.C. Punmia; Laxmi
Publications, New Delhi.
6. Soil Mechanics & Foundation Engineering Vol. II by V.N.S. Murthy,
Saikripa
Technical consultants, Bangalore.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Foundation Engineering by B.J. Kasmalkar, Pune Vidyarthi Griha
Prakashan, Pune
2. Foundation Analysis and Design by Joseph E. Bowles; McGraw – Hill
International Book Company
3. Basic and Applied Soil Mechanics by Gopal Ranjan, A.S.R. Rao, New age
Publications.
4. Foundation Engineering by Braja M. Das.
156
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
Elective-I
(CED1137) SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Develop an understanding the necessity of solid waste management
• Develop an understanding of the collection of solid waste
• Develop an understanding of solid waste disposal methods
• Develop an understanding of bio medical waste management and e-waste
management
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge of solid waste management
• Acquire the knowledge of solid waste disposal techniques
• Acquire the knowledge of Bio medical waste disposal techniques
• Acquire the knowledge of e- waste disposal techniques
UNIT – I
Introduction
Solid Waste problem, Meaning and definition of solid waste, concept and
classification of municipal solid waste, Impacts of solid waste on environment, Solid
waste management rules and regulations.
UNIT – II
Collection and Transfer of Municipal Solid Waste
Developing a solid waste collection and transfer system characterizing waste
generation, determining public and private collection/transfer options.
UNIT – III
Solid Waste management techniques
Solid waste management Hierarchy, waste avoidance /waste prevention, Definition
of source Reduction, waste reduction at source using 5R‘s Technique.
UNIT – IV
Waste Disposal Techniques
Introduction, composting, principles of composting, factors affecting composting,
vermi composting, waste to energy techniques, Landfill technique, and design and
operating procedure of landfill.
UNIT – V
Solid waste management of Biomedical Waste, plastic and E- Waste
Biomedical Waste – Sources and generation, biomedical waste management. Plastic
– Dangers of plastic wastes, Recycling and disposal of plastic wastes. E-Wastes –
Definition, Health hazards, E-Waste management and conclusion.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Solid waste management by K. Sasi Kumar & S. Gopi Krishna
157
158
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-I 4 0 4
(CED1138) AIR POLLUTION AND CONTROL
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Develop an understanding of Air pollution Concepts
• Develop an understanding of Effects of air pollution
• Develop an understanding of Air pollution Control devices
• Develop an understanding of Air quality monitoring devices
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge of Air pollution Concepts
• Acquire the knowledge of Effects of air pollution
• Acquire the knowledge of Air pollution Control devices
• Acquire the knowledge ofAir quality monitoring devices
UNIT – I
Air Pollution and its definition – Factors influencing air pollution – Classification of
pollutants particulates – Gases-Sources of pollution – Air qualities standards –
effects – Location of Industries.
UNIT – II
Meteorology – Wind roses – lapses rates – mixing depth atmospheric dispersion –
plume behavior accumulation, estimation of pollutants – Effective stack height.
UNIT – III
Air Pollution effects on human beings, animals, plants and materials ,global
conditions– Air Pollution Episodes in India and abroad.
UNIT – IV
Control of air pollution – Removal of pollutants – particulate and gaseous – Air
pollution control equipments (units) such as setting chamber, cyclones, wet
scrubbers/collectors, scrubbers, centrifugal scrubbers spary towers, packed beds,
electrostatic precipitators, after burners-absorption – adsorption – Diffusion.
UNIT – V
Ambient air quality monitoring and stack monitoring. General methods of control of
NO,SO emissions-in plant measures, wet and dry methods of removal and recycling.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Air Pollution Control Technology by T. Painter.
2. Elements of Air Pollution Control by Prof. T. Shivaji Rao.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Air Pollution Control by K.V.S.G. Murali Krishna.
2. Air Pollution Control by M.N.Rao.
3. Fundamentals of Air Pollution by Dr. B.S.N. Raju, Oxford & I.B.H.
159
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-I 4 0 4
(CED1139) INDUSTRIAL WASTE & WASTE WATER MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Develop an understanding the necessity of Industrial waste & waste water
management
• Develop an understanding quality requirement of industrial waste water
• Develop an understanding treatment of Industrial waste water
• Develop an understanding of Common Effluent Treatment plant
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge of solid waste management
• Acquire the knowledge of solid waste disposal techniques
• Acquire the knowledge of Bio medical waste disposal techniques
• Acquire the knowledge of e- waste disposal techniques
UNIT-I
Quality requirements of boiler and cooling waters – quality requirements of process
water for textiles – food processing and Brewery industries – boiler and cooling water
treatment methods.
UNIT-II
Basic theories of industrial waste water management – volume reduction – strength
reduction – neutralization – equalization and proportioning. Joint treatment of
industrial waste and domestic sewage – consequent problems.
UNIT-III
Industrial waste water discharges into streams, lakes and oceans and problems.
Recirculation of industrial wastes – use of municipal waste water in industries.
UNIT –IV
Manufacturing process and design origin of liquid waste from textiles, paper and pulp
industries, thermal power plants tanneries, fertilizers, distillers, diary, sugar mills,
steel plants, oil refineries, and pharmaceutical plants, special characteristics, effects
and treatment methods.
UNIT –V
Common Effluent Treatment plants –Advantages and suitability, limitations, Effluent
Disposal Methods
TEXT BOOKS
1. Waste water Treatment by M.N.Rao and Dutta, Oxford &IBH, New Delhi
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Liquid waste of industry by Newmerow
2. Water and waste water technology by Mark J.Hammmerand mark
J.Hammer (Jr)
160
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CE – I sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective 3 0 3
(MED1163) OPTIMIZATION TECHNIQUES
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• To understand linear programming
• To understand optimization problem statement.
• To understand single variable and multi variable optimization problems with
equality and inequality constraints
• To understand various optimization techniques.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Formulate mathematical statement of optimization problem
• Understand multivariable optimization
• Understand various methods of optimization techniques
• Understand the concept of genetic algorithm
UNIT I
Statement of an Optimization problem – design vector – design constraints –
constraint surface – objective function – objective function surfaces – classification of
Optimization problems, Use of optimization methods. Introduction to classical
optimization techniques, motivation to the simplex method, simplex algorithm,
sensitivity analysis.
UNIT II
Single variable Optimization – multi variable Optimization without constraints –
necessary and sufficient conditions for minimum/maximum – multivariable
Optimization with equality constraints. Solution by method of Lagrange multipliers –
multivariable Optimization with inequality constraints – Kuhn – Tucker conditions.
Search methods - Unrestricted search, exhaustive search, Fibonacci method,
Golden section method, Direct search method, Random search methods, Univariate
method, Pattern search method.
UNIT III
Descent methods, Gradient of function, steepest decent method, conjugate gradient
method. Characteristics of constrained problem, Direct methods, The complex
method, cutting plane method.
UNIT IV
Review of a global optimization techniques such as Monte Carlo method, Simulated
annealing and Tunneling algorithm.
UNIT V
Generic algorithm - Selection process, Crossover, Mutation, Schema theorem,
comparison between binary and floating point implementation.
TEXT BOOKS
161
1. SS Rao, ―Optimization techniques‖, PHI, 1989.
2. Zhigmiew Michelewicz, ―Genetic algorithms + data structures = Evaluation
programs‖, Springer Verlog - 1992.
3. Merrium C. W., ―Optimization theory and the design of feedback control systems‖,
McGraw Hill, 1964.
4. Weldo D.J., ―Optimum seeking method‖, PHI, 1964.
5. Introductory Operations Research‖ by H.S. Kasene & K.D. Kumar, Springer(India),
Pvt .LTD.
6. Optimization Methods in Operations Research and systems Analysis‖ – by K.V.
Mital and C. Mohan, New Age International (P) Limited, Publishers, 3rd edition,
1996.
7. Operations Research : An Introduction‖ – by H.A. Taha, PHI Pvt. Ltd., 6th edition
8. Linear Programming – by G. Hadley
162
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective 3 0 3
(CSE1130) RELATIONAL DATA BASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• To present an introduction to database management systems (DBMS) and
relational data model.
• To provide an emphasis on how to organize, maintain and retrieve
information efficiently and effectivelyfrom a DBMS.
• To introduce the concepts of transactions and transaction processing
• To present the issues and techniques relating to concurrency in multi-user
database environments
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• The students should be able to:
• Understand the fundamental concepts of database management. These
concepts include aspects of database design, database languages, and
database-system implementation.
• The students will be able to design and query databases, as well as
understand the internals of databases.
• Define basic functions of DBMS & RDBMS.
• Describe database development process.
• Apply the Relational Database Model to understand the Logical and
Physical aspects of the DBMS architecture.
UNIT-I
Introduction to Databases and Database Management System - Database system
Applications - Advantages of DBMS over File System - Data Models – Instances
and schema - View of Data - Database Languages -DDL-DML - Database Users and
Administrator - Database System Structure.
UNIT-II
Database Design and ER diagrams – Attributes and Entity Sets – Relationships and
Relationship Sets – Constraints - Keys - Design Issues - Entity-Relationship
Diagram- Weak Entity Sets - Extended E-R Features - Database Design with ER
model - Database Design for Banking Enterprise
UNIT – III
Introduction to the Relational Model – Structure of RDBMS - Integrity Constraints
over Relations – Enforcing Integrity Constraints – Querying Relational Data -
Relational Algebra and Calculus.
Introduction to SQL- Data Definition commands, Data Manipulation Commands,
Basic Structure, Set operations Aggregate Operations - Join operations - Sub
queries and correlated queries, SQL functions , views ,Triggers, Embedded SQL.
163
UNIT – IV
Functional Dependencies– Introduction , Basic Definitions, Trivial and Non trivial
dependencies, closure of a set of dependencies, closure of attributes, irreducible set
of dependencies- Schema Refinement in Database Design- Problems Caused by
Redundancy – Decompositions – Problem Related to Decomposition –- Lossless
Join Decomposition – Dependency Preserving Decomposition - FIRST, SECOND,
THIRD Normal Forms – BCNF –– Multivalued Dependencies – Fourth Normal Form.
UNIT-V
Transaction concept- Transaction state- Implementation of atomicity and Durability-
Concurrent executions – Serializability, Recoverability
Lock Based Protocols, Timestamp Based Protocols, Validation Based Protocols,
Multiple Granularity, Dead Lock Handling – Failure Classification – Storage Structure
- Recovery and Atomicity- Log Based recovery – Recovery with concurrent
transactions – Checkpoints .
File Organization – Organization of records in file - Data Dictionary Storage –
Indexing and Hashing – Basic Concepts , Ordered Indices,B+Tree Index files, B- tree
index files – Static Hashing – Dynamic Hashing – Comparision of Indexing with
Hashing.
TEXTBOOKS.
1. Database System Concepts, Silberschatz, Korth , Fifth Edition, McGraw hill
( 1,2,3 and 5 Units)
2. Introduction to Database Systems, C.J.Date, Pearson Education (4th Unit)
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Fundamentals of Database Systems, Elmasri Navrate Pearson Education
2. Database Management Systems, Raghuramakrishnan, Johannes Gehrke,
TATA Mc Graw Hill(1,2,3 and 5 Units)
3. Data base Systems design, Implementation, and Management, Peter Rob
and Carlos Coronel 7th Edition.
4. Data Base Systems using Oracle : A simplified guide to SQL and PL /SQL,
Shah, PHI
164
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective 3 0 3
(EEE1127) RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• To inculcate the awareness of energy conservation in students
• To understand the use of renewable energy sources for electrical power
generation
• To know different energy storage methods
• To learn about environmental effects of energy conversion
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• To use different renewable energy sources to produce electrical power
• To minimize the use of conventional energy sources to produce electrical
energy
• To identify the fact that the conventional energy resources are depleted
• To store energy and to avoid the environmental pollution
UNIT- I
PRINCIPLES OF SOLAR RADIATION
Role and Potential of New and Renewable source, the solar energy option,
Environmental impact of solar power, Physics of the Sun, The solar constant,
Extraterrestrial and Terrestrial solar radiation, Solar radiation on titled surface,
Instruments for measuring solar radiation and sun shine, solar radiation data.
UNIT- II
SOLAR ENERGY COLLECTION & APPLICATIONS
Flat Plate Collectors and Concentrating Collectors, Classification of concentrating
collectors, Orientation and Thermal analysis, advanced collectors, Solar ponds,
Solar Energy Applications - solar heating/cooling techniques, solar distillation and
drying, Photovoltaic Energy Conversion.
UNIT- III
WIND ENERGY
Sources and potentials, Horizontal and Vertical axis wind mills - Types, Blade
Design, Performance characteristics, Betz criteria, Induction Generators for Wind
power Generation, MHD Generation.
UNIT - IV
BIO-MASS & DEC
Principles of Bio-Conversion, Anaerobic/aerobic digestion, Types of Bio-gas
Digesters, gas yield, Combustion characteristics of bio-gas, Utilization for cooking,
Economic aspects.
165
Direct Energy Conversion, Need for DEC, Principles of DEC, Carnot Cycle and
Limitations.
UNIT - V
HARNESSING GEOTHERMAL ENERGY & OCEAN ENERGY
Resources of Geothermal Energy, Types of wells, Methods of harnessing the
energy, potential in India, Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion, Principles, Utilization,
Setting of OTEC plants, Thermodynamic cycles, Tidal and Wave energy: Potential
and Conversion Techniques, Mini-Hydel Power plants.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Non-Conventional Energy Sources by G.D.Rai, Khanna Publishers.
2. Renewable Energy Resources by Twidell and Wier, CRC Press (Taylor
and Francis).
3. Non- Conventional energy resources by B.H.Khan, Tata Mc Graw-Hill,
2006.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Renewable Energy Resources by Tiwari and Ghosal, Narosa.
2. Renewable Energy Technologies by Ramesh and Kumar, Narosa.
3. Non-Conventional Energy Systems by K Mittal, Wheeler Publishing House.
4. Renewable Energy Sources and Emerging Technologies by D.P.Kothari,
K.C.Singhal, PHI.
166
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective 3 0 3
(CED1147) DISASTER MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Understand the difference between a hazard and disaster
• Know about various disasters and their impacts
• Understand Different approaches of disaster risk reduction
• Understand Disaster risks in India
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge disaster Management
• Understand the vulnerability of ecosystem and infrastructure due to a
disaster
• Acquire the knowledge of Disaster Management Phases
• Understand the hazard and vulnerability profile of India
UNIT-1
Introduction to disaster
Concepts and definitions (Disaster, Hazard, Vulnerability, Resilience, Risks)
UNIT-II
Disasters: Classifications, Causes, Impacts (including social, economic, political,
environment, health, psychosocial, etc.)
Differential impacts-in terms of caste, class, gender, age, location, disability Global
trends in disasters. Urban disaster, pandemics, complex emergencies, Climate
change
UNIT-III
Approaches to disaster Risk reduction
Disaster cycle-its analysis, phase, Culture of safety, prevention, mitigation and
preparedness, community based DRR, Structural measures, roles and
responsibilities of community. Panchayati Raj Institutions/Urban Local Bodies
(PRIs/ULBs), states, center and other stake-holders.
UNIT-IV
Inter-relationship between Disaster and Development
Factors affecting Vulnerabilities, differential impacts, impact of development projects
such as dams, embankments, change in land-use etc. Climate change Adaption.
Relevance of indigenous knowledge, appropriate technology and local resources.
UNIT-V
Disaster Risk Management in India
Hazard and vulnerability profile of India, Components of Disaster relief: Water, food,
sanitation, shelter, health, waste management, Institutional arrangements
167
(Mitigation, Response and Preparedness, DM Act Policy, Other related polices, plan,
programmes and legislation)
Project Work :( Field Work, Case Studies)
The project/fieldwork is meant for students to understand vulnerabilities and to work
on reducing disaster risks and to build a culture of safety. Projects must be
conceived creatively based on the geographic location and hazard.
Suggested Reading list:
1. Alexander David, Introduction in ‗Confronting Catastrophe‘, oxford University
press, 2000
2. Andharia J. Vulnerability in disaster Discourse, JTCDM, Tata Institute of
Social Sciences working paper no.8, 2008
3. Blaikie, P, Cannon T, Davis I, Wisner B 1997. At Risk Natural Hazards,
Peoples‘ Vulnerability and Disaster, Rutledge.
4. Coppola P Damon, 2007. Introduction to International Disaster Management.
5. Carter, Nick 1991.Disaster Management: A Disaster Manager‘s Handbook.
Asian Development Bank, Manila Philippines.
6. Cuny,F.1983. Development and Disasters, Oxford University Press
7. Govt.of India; Disaster Management Act 2005,Government of India, New
Delhi.
168
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective 3 0 3
(CSE1121) CYBER SECURITY
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• This course provides an overview of Information Security and Assurance
over the Internet.
• Students will be exposed to the spectrum of security activities, methods,
methodologies, and procedures with emphasis on practical aspects of
Information Security
• In this course Service Processes, storage and security management,
Cyber Forensics and standard, laws and Acts for Information Security will be
learnt
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Understand security principles, threats and attack techniques
• Describe authentication and access control
• Describe reference monitors, and security models
• Understand Service Delivery and support process
• Understand network security and operating system security
• Understand storage and security management
UNIT I.
INTRODUCTION: Introduction and Overview of Cyber Crime, Nature and Scope of
Cyber Crime, Types of Cyber Crime: Social Engineering, Categories of Cyber Crime,
Property Cyber Crime. CYBER CRIME ISSUES: Unauthorized Access to
Computers, Computer Intrusions, White collar Crimes, Viruses and Malicious Code,
Internet Hacking and Cracking, Virus Attacks, Pornography, Software Piracy,
Intellectual Property, Mail Bombs, Exploitation ,Stalking and Obscenity in Internet,
Digital laws and legislation, Law Enforcement Roles and Responses. Security Policy
Design, Designing Security Procedures, Risk Assessment Techniques, Security
standards, Biba Model, Chinese wall, Bell La Pedula Model.
UNIT II:
SERVICE DELIVERY PROCESS- Service Delivery Process, Service Level
Management, Financial Management, Service Management, Capacity Management,
Availability Management.
SERVICE SUPPORT PROCESS- Service Support Process, Configuration
Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management,
Release Management.
UNIT III:
STORAGE MANAGEMENT- Backup & Storage, Archive & Retrieve, Disaster
Recovery, Space Management, Database & Application Protection, Bare Machine
169
Recovery, Data Retention
SECURITY MANAGEMENT- Security, Computer and internet Security, Physical
Security,Identity Management, Access Management. Intrusion Detection, Security
Information Management.
UNIT IV:
Cyber Forensics- Introduction to Digital Forensics, Forensic Software and
Hardware, Analysis and Advanced Tools, Forensic Technology and Practices,
Forensic Ballistics and Photography, Face, Iris and Fingerprint Recognition, Audio
Video Analysis, Windows System Forensics, Linux System Forensics, Network
Forensics Evaluation of crime scene and evidence collection ,Usage of tools for disk
imaging and recovery processes.
UNIT V
Introduction to Information Security Standards , Laws and Acts: Laws and
Ethics, Digital Evidence Controls, Evidence Handling Procedures, Basics of Indian
Evidence ACT IPC and CrPC , Electronic Communication Privacy ACT, Legal
Policies,ISO 27001,PCI DSS,IT Act, Copy Right Act.
Textbooks:
1. Nelson Phillips and Enfinger Steuart, ―Computer Forensics and
Investigations‖, Cengage Learning, New Delhi, 2009.
2. "Management of Information Security", M. E. Whitman, H. J. Mattord, Nelson
Education / CENGAGE Learning, 2011, 3rd Edition.
3. "Guide to Computer Forensics and Investigations", B. Nelson, A. Phillips, F.
Enfinger, C. Steuart, Nelson Education / CENGAGE Learning, 2010, 4th
Edition.
4. Goel Ritendra, Computer Application in Management, New Age International
Publishers, New Delhi.
5. Chowdhury G.G., Text Retrieval Systems in information Management, New
Age International Publishers, New Delhi.
170
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective 0 3 2
(CED1210) CAD & GIS LAB
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Understand the GUI of the analysis package
• Understands the geometric modeling, pre and post processors& to interpret
the results
• Understands Arial photograph interpretation
• Understand analog to digital conversions, data creation and editing&
buffering techniques
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Able to model a geometry represent the physical model of s structural
element/structure
• Able to design the structural elements
• Interpret Arial photographs
• Able to classify images and detect the changes from imageries, create
database & interpret data
CAD :
1. Analysis of simple and continuous beams
2. 2-D RC frame analysis and Design
3. Steel Truss analysis and Design
4. 3-D RC frame analysis and Design
5. Comparison of seismic forces for a multi-storey building based on IS:1893
6. Analysis and Design of a simple tower
Software: STAAD. Pro or Equivalent
REMOTE SENSING:
1. Arial photograph interpretation
2. Visual interpretation of multispectral and panchromatic image
3. Image classification, supervised and unsupervised classifications
4. Change detection from multi-date imagery
GIS:
1. Analog to Digital Conversion – Scanning methods
2. Introduction to software
3. Digital database creation – Point features, Line features, Polygon features
4. Data Editing-Removal of errors – Overshoot & Undershoot, Snapping
5. Data Collection and Integration, Non-spatial data attachment working with
tables
6. Dissolving and Merging
7. Clipping, Intersection and Union
171
8. Buffering techniques
9. Spatial and Attribute query and Analysis
10. DEM
Remote Sensing & GIS Software:
1. Arc GIS 9.0
2. ERDAS 8.7
3. Mapinfo 6.5
172
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(CED1211)ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING LAB
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Understands the procedures determine water quality
• Understand procedures to determine waste water quality
• Understand procedures to determine the industrial water quality
• Understands the water sampling, waste water sampling &water quality
standards
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• test water samples
• test waste water samples
• test Industrial waste water samples
• knows water quality & waste water standards
List of the Experiments
1. pH & Conductivity. Determination of pH and conductivity of water and waste
water.
2. Turbidity & Jar Test . Determination of turbidity of water and wastewater by
Nephelometry.
3. Hardness.
4. Acidity estimation. Determination of Acidity as CACO by fitrimetric method
3
5. Alkalinity estimation.
6. Residual Chlorine.
7. Fluorides.
8. Optimum dosage of coagulant by jar test. Determination of optimum dosage of
coagulars using Jar test(flocculation test)
9. Estimation of Total Solids : Settleable Solids : Suspended solids, dissolved
solids.
10. D.O. Determination of D.O polarographic probe method
11. B. O. D.
12. C. O. D.
13. Chlorides. Determination of chloride by Mohr‘s aryentometric method
173
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective- II 4 0 4
(CED1140) WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• The primary objective of this course is to develop an understanding of the
processes and fluxes of mass and energy within a watershed and how land
use changes potentially affect these processes.
• To learn how science-based management principles may be applied to
watershed systems.
• To develop/improve critical problem solving, quantitative and data analysis
skills commonly used by natural resource managers.
• Understand potential environmental effects of various land and water uses
and how these resources can benefit from integrated watershed
management.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Comprehend the physical, biological and environmental aspects and their
interrelations within a watershed; choose and apply available system tools for
system intervention.
• Comprehend the participatory decision making processes; comprehend the
interdependencies between natural resources and management at different
locations in land and water management.
• Formulate a vision and design a sustainable watershed management plan
that shows an integrated approach towards multiple use of land- and water
resources and social equity and economic viability.
• Work in multidisciplinary and multicultural groups (with respect for different
views, expertise and culture); reflect on own contribution to group work and
on group processes
UNIT-I
Introduction
Concept of watershed development, objectives of watershed development, need for
watershed development in India, Integrated and multidisciplinary approach for
watershed management.
UNIT-II
Characteristics of watershed
Size, shape, physiography, slope, climate, drainage, land use, vegetation, geology
and soils, hydrology and hydrogeology, socio-economic characteristics, basic data
on watersheds.
UNIT-III
174
Principles and measures to control erosion
Types of erosion, factors affecting erosion, effects of erosion on land fertility and
land capability, estimation of soil loss due to erosion, Universal soil loss equation.
Contour techniques, ploughing, furrowing, trenching, bunding, terracing, gully
control, rockfill dams, brushwood dam, Gabion.
UNIT-IV
Water harvesting
Rainwater Harvesting, catchment harvesting, harvesting structures, soil moisture
conservation, check dams, artificial recharge, farm ponds, and percolation tanks.
UNIT-V
Land and ecosystem management
Land use and Land capability classification, management of forest, agricultural,
grassland and wild land. Reclamation of saline and alkaline soils. Role of
Ecosystem, crop husbandry, soil enrichment, inter, mixed and strip cropping,
cropping pattern, sustainable agriculture, bio-mass management, dry land
agriculture, Silvi pasture, horticulture, social forestry and afforestation.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Watershed Management by JVS Murthy, - New Age International
Publishers.
2. Water Resource Engineering by R.Awurbs and WP James, - Prentice Hall
Publishers.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Land and Water Management by VVN Murthy, - Kalyani Publications.
2. Irrigation and Water Management by D.K.Majumdar, Printice Hall of India
175
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective- II 4 0 4
(CED1141)CONSTRUCTION TECHNOLOGY AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Learn the fundamentals of construction law.
• Learn the fundamentals of construction safety.
• Understand various equipments used in construction.
• Learn Fundamentals of Project Planning.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Differentiate construction equipment.
• Prepare Plan and control resources of projects.
• Prepare Construction Schedule by using different methods.
• Know ISO 9000 Standards
UNIT-I :
Fundamentals of construction Technology – Construction activities – process –
construction schedule – construction records – documents – quality – safety – codes
and regulations.
UNIT-II :
Construction method – earthwork – piling – concrete and concreting – formwork –
fabrication and erection - Mechanised construction – construction equipment –
equipment economics – excavators – Rollers – Dozers – Scrapers – Handling
equipment – concrete equipment – cranes – draglines and clamshalls
UNIT-III :
Quality control, Assurance and safety – ISO – 9000 – quality systems – principles on
safety – personnel, fire and electrical safety – environment protection – concept of
green building.
UNIT-IV :
Contract management – project estimation – types of estimation – contract
document – classification – bidding – procurement process - Construction planning –
project planning techniques – planning of manpower, material, equipment and
finance.
UNIT-V :
Project scheduling – PERT – CPM, Resource leveling - Construction claims,
Dispute and project closure – source of claim – claim management – Dispute
Resolution – Arbitration – Construction Closure – Contract Closure – Documentation.
TEXT BOOK
1. Construction Technology by Subir K.Sarkar, Subhajit Saraswati / Oxford
University Press
176
2. Construction Project Management – Theory and Practice, Niraj kumar jha,
Pearson Education
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Construction Planning Equipment and Methods by Peurifacy,
Schexnayder, Sharpira TMH
2. Project Planning and Control with PERT and CPM – B.C. Punmia,
K.K.Khandelwala – Laxmi Publication.
177
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective- II 4 0 4
(CED1142) PRINCIPLES OF WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Develop an understanding water management Concepts
• Develop an understanding of water requirements for various uses
• Develop an understanding of treatment of water
• Develop an understanding of miscellaneous water treatment methods
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge of Quality of water
• Acquire the knowledge of Treatment of water
• Acquire the knowledge of Design of water Treatment Plant
• Acquire the knowledge of Miscellaneous treatment methods
UNIT – I
Introduction
Water Demand - Domestic, Institutional, Industrial & fire Fighting demand.
Estimating per capita water demand. Quality of water and drinking water standards.
UNIT – II
Water Sources
Rainfall and runoff – Measurement of precipitation and runoff, Rainfall intensity-
duration- frequency relationship. Groundwater – Formation of ground water,
Infiltration galleries, yield of wells. Surface Sources – Catchment area, Reservoir
sites, yield of surface sources.
UNIT –III
Qualities of water supplies
Impurities of water, Examination of water – Collection of samples, Standard tests,
Classification of tests, Biological examination of water.
UNIT – IV
Treatment of water
layout of water treatment plant, Sedimentation – Sedimentation tank, sedimentation
aided with coagulation. Filtration – Theory of filtration, types of filters, comparison of
slow sand and rapid gravity filters. Disinfection – Theory of disinfection by chlorine,
different chlorination methods.
UNIT – V
Miscellaneous treatment methods: Water softening, Aeration, Fluoridation,
Desalting, Radio Isotope removal.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1.Water supply, Waste disposal & Environmental Engg by A.K. Chatterjee
178
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective- II 4 0 4
(CED1143) GEOSPATIAL TECHNOLOGY & APPLICATIONS
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• To enable the students to understand different types of datum‘s and
coordinates systems.
• To enable the students to understand different types of applications like
environment ,social and commercial applications
• GIS is software which can be used for collecting, storing and analyzing of
data which is useful for real world applications.
• To enable the students to understand how GIS can be used to address the
problems and develop solutions in everyday problems.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Use different types of projections and datum‘s for spatial data base
generation.
• Student able to classify the different types of disasters so management of
disasters is very easy.
• By Using GIS, the student can develop knowledge on using the analytical
hierarchy process, which considers several factors for bringing out the best
solution in a effective manner.
• By GIS the student can communicate to the common man his analysis of
different problems developments, benefits by preparing different thematic
maps.
UNIT -I
Introduction
Geospatial data, Spatial data infrastructure, three important geospatial technologies,
Spatial elements. Datums &Geodetic Systems-Geodetic datums, Geodetic reference
system
UNIT-II
Coordinates & coordinate systems
Coordinates and coordinate systems, Datums and geodetic systems, Coordinate
transformations. Basic electromagnetic radiation.
UNIT-III
Overview of gst applications
GST for Environmental, Social, Local Government and Commercial applications.
UNIT-IV
Municipal & urban GIS
GST for Urban Environmental Monitoring. GST for Municipal Administration.
Geomatics in Solid and Hazardous waste disposal site selection, Environmental
179
Information System Development for municipalities: Case studies GST for Traffic
and Transportation planning Assessment
UNIT-V
Disaster management
Introduction and Overview- Natural and manmade hazards – Vulnerability
assessment and Mapping on Disasters- Spatial Information for natural Hazard and
risk assessment –Land slides- volcanoes- floods and famines- earth quakes-
Drought hazard and risk assessment- Human Induced disasters- industrial disasters-
dams- constructional and others.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Manual of Geospatial Science and Technology Edited By John. D. Bossler,
Taylor And Francis, London
2. Fundamentals of GIS by MICHAEL N DEMERS. Published By john Wiley &
Sons Inc.
3. Environmental Modeling with GIS, Michael F. Goodchild, Bradley O. Parks,
Louis T. Stewart
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Environmental Modeling with GIS, Michael F. Goodchild, Bradley O. Parks,
Louis T. Stewart
2. Geographic Information Systems: A Management Perspective by Stan
Arnoff.
3. Geographical Information Sysytems by Demmeers
180
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective- II 4 0 4
(CED1144) PRESTRESSED CONCRETE
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Develop an understanding of the necessity of prestressed concrete
structures.
• Develop an understanding of various techniques of prestressing.
• Develop an understanding of various losses of prestress.
• Develop an understanding of the analysis of prestressed concrete
members.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge of evolution of process of prestressing.
• Acquire the knowledge of various prestressing techniques.
• Develop skills in analysis of prestressed concrete beams, and slabs.
• Develop skills to satisfy the serviceability and strength provisions of the
Indian Standards (IS: 1343-1980).
UNIT – I
Introduction
Historic development – General principles of prestressing pretensioning and post
tensioning – Advantages and limitations of prestressed concrete – Materials – High
strength concrete and high tensile steel, their characteristics.
I.S.Code provisions, Methods and Systems of Prestressing; Pre-tensioning and post
tensioning methods – Analysis of post tensioning - Different systems of prestressing
like Hoyer System, Magnel System Freyssinet system and Gifford – Udall System.
UNIT – II
Losses of prestress
Loss of prestress in pre-tensioned and post-tensioned members due to various
causes like elastic shortening of concrete, shrinkage of concrete, creep of concrete,
Relaxation of steel, slip in anchorage bending of member and frictional losses.
UNIT – III
Analysis of sections for flexure
Elastic analysis of concrete beams prestressed with straight, concentric, eccentric,
bent and parabolic tendons.
UNIT – IV
Deflections of prestressed concrete beams
Importance of control of deflections – factors influencing deflections – short term
deflections of uncracked members prediction of long term deflections.
UNIT – V
Composite section
181
Introduction – Analysis of stress – Differential shrinkage – General designs
considerations.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Prestressed Concrete by Krishna Raju; - Tata Mc.Graw Hill Publications.
2. Prestressed Concrete by N.Rajasekharan; - Narosa publications.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Prestressed Concrete by Ramamrutham; Dhanpatrai Publications.
2. Design of Prestressed concrete structures (Third Edition) by T.Y. Lin & Ned
H.Burns, John Wiley & Sons.
3.Codes: BIS code on prestressed concrete, IS 1343.
182
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective- II 4 0 4
(CED1145) WATER RESOURCES PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• To impart to the students the concepts of Water Resource Planning and
Management.
• To enable the students to understand different types of Optimization
Techniques
• To enable the students to solve analytical problems
• To enable the students to do optimal allocation of water resources
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Do Linear and Dynamic Programming
• Use non linear optimization models
• Perform benefit cost calculation for Projects
• Allocate water resources based on scientific criterion
UNIT I
Introduction
Concepts of systems analysis, definition, systems approach to water resources
planning and management, role of optimization models objective function and
constraints, types of optimization techniques.
Linear Programming - I
Formulation linear programming models, graphical method, simplex method,
application of Linear programming in water resources.
UNIT II
Linear Programming - II
Revised simplex method, duality in linear programming, sensitivity and past
optimality analysis.
UNIT III
SDynamics programming
Belman‘s of principles of optimality forward and backward recursive dynamic
programming, case of dimensionality, application of dynamic for resource allocation.
UNIT IV
Non-linear Optimization Techniques
Clerical of method optimization, Kuch-Tucleer, gradient based research techniques
for simple unconstrained optimization.
Simulation : Application of simulation techniques in water resources.
UNIT V
Water- resources economics
183
Principles of Economics analysis, benefit cost analysis socio economic intutional and
pricing of water resources.
Water resources management
Planning of reservoir system, optimal operation of single reservoir system, allocation
of water resources, optimal cropping pattern, conjunctive use of surface and sub-
surface water resources.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Water Resources System Analysis-Vedula & Mujumdar – Tata Mc.Graw-
Hill Company Ltd.2005.
2. Water Resources Economics – James & Lee. Oxford Publishers 2005.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Optimal design of water distribution networks P.R.Bhave, Narosa
Publishing house 2003.
184
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective- II 4 0 4
(CED1146) PAVEMENT ANALYSIS DESIGN AND EVALUATION
Course Objectives: Student will be able to
• Understand the basic modeling concepts used to analyze flexible and rigid
pavements.
• Appreciate pavement management concepts to better manage road
pavement.
• Apply the various types of highway appurtenance to enhance the safety of
motorists.
• Learn to estimate traffic noise and the effect of noise attenuation
measures.
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of this course, it is expected that
students should be able to
• Design flexible and rigid pavements
• Propose a pavement management system framework
• Design highway appurtenance and highway drainage
• Design mitigation measures to attenuate traffic noise
UNIT – I
Some Fundamentals of Pavements
Functions and Desirable characteristics of Pavements, Types of pavements,
Comparision of Flexible and rigid pavements, Functions of Individual Layers,
Factors affecting design of pavements – wheel loads –ESWL Concept- tyre pressure
– contact pressure, Material characteristics – Environmental and other factors.
UNIT –II
Design of Flexible pavements
Stresses in Flexible pavements – Visco elasic theory and assumptions, Layerd
system concepts, Stress solution for one and two layered systems, Fundamental
design concepts, Methods of design of flexible pavements, AASHTO and IRC
method of Pavement design.
UNIT –III
Design of Rigid Pavement
Stresses in Rigid pavements - relative stiffness of slab, modulus of sub-grade
reaction – stresses due to warping, stresses due to loads, stresses due to friction,
Westergard‘s theory and assumptions, IRC method of Rigid pavement design –
Importance of Joints in Rigid Pavements- Types of Joints – Use of Tie Bars and
Dowell Bars, AASHTO method of Design.
UNIT – IV
Highway Materials and Construction Aspects
185
Highway Materials – Soil, Aggregate and Bitumen- Tests on aggregates –
Aggregate Properties and their Importance- Tests on Bitumen – Bituminous
Concrete- Requirements of Design Mix- Marshall‘s Method of Bituminous Mix
design, Highway construction – Construction of Earth Roads- Gravel Roads – WBM
Roads- Bituminous Pavements- Cement Concrete Roads- Steps in Construction-
Reinforced Concrete Pavements – Soil Stabilization – Methods and Objectives- Soil-
cement Stabilization and Soil-lime Stabilization.
UNIT – V
Pavement Evaluation
Need for Highway Maintenance- Pavement Failures- Failures in Flexible Pavements-
Types and Causes-Rigid Pavement Failures- Types and causes- Pavement
Evaluation- Benkleman Beam method- Strengthening of Existing Pavements-
Overlays, IRC method of Overlay design, Importance of profile correction course.
Text Books
1. Highway Engineering – S.K.Khanna & C.J.Justo, Nemchand & Bros.,
7th Edition (2000).
2. Principles and Practices of Highway Engineering – Dr.L.R.Kadiyali &
Dr.N.B.Lal – Khanna publishers – (2003).
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Principles of Pavement design, Yoder.& Witzorac Mathew, John Wiley
& Sons Inc.
2. Pavement Analysis and Design, Yang H. Huang, Prentice Hall Inc.
3. IRC codes for Design of Flexible and Rigid Pavements.
186
