SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/R12/R12ECE.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
Electron ics and
Communication Engineering
B.TECH. FOUR YEAR DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2012-2013)
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous Institute
Approved by AICTE & Affiliated to JNTUH
NAAC Accredited-‘A’ Grade
Bachupally, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500090, Andhra Pradesh, India
Phone: 040-23042758/59/60; FAX: 040-23042761
E-Mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
1
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi and Govt. of A.P & Affiliated to JNTUH
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS FOR B.TECH. DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for Students admitted from the academic year 2012-2013)
1. Courses of study
The following courses of study are offered at present for specialization for the B.
Tech. Course:
Branch Code Branch
01 Civil Engineering.
02 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
03 Mechanical Engineering
04 Electronics and Communication Engineering
05 Computer Science and Engineering.
10 Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
12 Information Technology
24 Automobile Engineering
1.1 Eligibility Criteria for Admission
The eligibility criteria for admission into engineering programmes shall be as
mentioned below:
The candidate shall be an Indian National / NRI
The candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st December
of the academic year for which the admissions are being conducted.
The Candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or
equivalent as on the date of admission.
Seats in each programme in the Institution are classified into Category A
and Category B as per the G.Os.
2
1.1.1 Category – A Seats
These seats will be filled through counseling as per the rank at the Common
Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by the State Government and as per
other admission criteria laid down in the G.Os.
1.1.2 Category - B Seats
These seats will be filled by the institute as per the G.Os Issued by State
Government from time to time.
1.1.3 Category: Lateral Entry
The candidate shall be admitted into the Third Semester, based on the rank
secured by the candidate at Engineering Common Entrance Test
(ECET(FDH)) by the Convener, ECET.
2. Distribution and Weightage of Marks
i. The performance of a student in each Semester shall be evaluated subject –
wise with a maximum of 100 marks for theory and 100 marks for
practical subjects. In addition, an Industry oriented mini-project, Seminar,
Comprehensive viva-voce, and Project Work shall be evaluated for 50, 50, 50
and 200 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects the distribution shall be 30 marks for Mid Semester
Evaluation and 70 marks for the End-Examination.
For theory subjects, Two mid examinations will be conducted in each
Semester as per the academic calendar. Each mid examination is evaluated
for 25 marks.
Two assignments are to be given to students covering the syllabus of first Mid
and second Mid examinations and are evaluated for 5 marks each. .
The first assignment shall be submitted before first mid examinations and
second Assignment should be submitted before second mid examination.
At the end of the Semester, Internal Marks (Maximum 30) for the respective
subject is assigned as follows:
(a) 25 marks: 80% from the best performed Mid examination and 20% from
the other Mid examination.
(b) 5 marks: Average of the two assignment marks
iii. For practical subjects there shall be a continuous evaluation during the
Semester for 30 marks and 70 marks for end examination. Out of the 30
marks, day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be evaluated for 10
marks, and 10 marks for practical examination (two practical examinations
will be conducted and the average of the two examinations will be taken into
account) and 10 marks for laboratory record.
NOTE: A student who is absent for any assignment/Mid term examination for any
reason what so ever shall be deemed to have secured ‘zero’ marks in
3
the test/examination and no makeup test/examination shall be
conducted.
iv For the subjects having design and / or drawing, (such as Engineering
Graphics, Engineering Drawing, Machine Drawing, Production Drawing
Practice, and Estimation etc.,) the distribution shall be 30 marks for internal
evaluation (15 marks for day-to-day work and 15 marks for Mid
examination (the average of the two examinations will be taken into account)
and 70 marks for end semester examination. There shall be two Mid
examinations in a Semester.
V There shall be an industry-oriented mini-Project, in collaboration with an
industry of their specialization, to be taken up during the a summer vacation
after III year II Semester examination. The mini project shall be evaluated
during the IV year I Semester. The industry oriented mini project shall be
submitted in report form and should be presented before a committee, which
shall be evaluated for 50 marks. The committee consists of Head of the
Department, the supervisor of mini project and a senior faculty member of the
department. There shall be no Midterm assessment for industry oriented
mini project. However, attending the shadow engineering program is a
pre – requisite for evaluating industry – oriented mini project. Students
should submit a report on learning outcomes of the shadow engineering.
Every student should attend shadow engineering programming an industry
for a week days during second year I or II semester.
vi. There shall be a Seminar presentation in IV year II Semester. For the
Seminar, the student shall collect the information on a specialized topic other
than the project topic and prepare a technical report, showing his
understanding of the topic, and submit to the department, which shall be
evaluated by a Departmental committee consisting of the Head of the
department, Seminar supervisor and a senior faculty member. The seminar
will be awarded 50 marks in which 40 marks will be evaluated for
seminar report and 10 marks for MTP Record by the committee.
vii. There shall be a Comprehensive Viva-Voce in IV year II Semester. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce will be conducted by a Committee consisting of
the Head of the Department and three Senior Faculty members of the
Department. The Comprehensive Viva-Voce is aimed to assess the student’s
understanding in various subjects studied during the B.Tech. course of
study. The Comprehensive Viva-Voce is evaluated for 50 marks by the
Committee. There will be no Midterm assessment for the Comprehensive
viva-voce.
4
viii. The Project work shall be started by the student in the beginning of the IV
year I Semester. Out of a total of 200 marks for the project work, 60 marks
shall be for Midterm Evaluation and 140 marks for the Semester end
Examination. The viva-voce shall be conducted by a committee comprising
of an external examiner, Head of the Department and the project supervisor
and one senior faculty. The evaluation of project work shall be conducted at
the end of the IV year II Semester. The Midterm Evaluation shall be on
the basis of three Seminars conducted during the IV year II Semester for
30 marks by the committee consisting of Head of the Department,
project supervisor and senior faculty member of the Department and for
30 marks by the supervisor of the project.
3. Semester end Examination
(a) Theory Courses
Each course is evaluated for 70 marks. Examination is of 3 hours duration.
(b) Practical Courses
Each lab course is evaluated for 70 marks. The examination shall be
conducted by the laboratory teacher and another senior teacher concerned
with the subject of the same/other department/Industry. One examiner may
be appointed by the Chief Superintendent in consultation with HOD as and
when required.
(c ) Supplementary Examinations
Supplementary examinations will be conducted along with regular Semester
end examinations.
(During even Semester regular examinations: supplementary examinations of
odd Semester
and during odd Semester regular examinations: supplementary examinations
of even Semester will be conducted).
4. Attendance Requirements
i. A student shall be eligible to appear for the Semester end examinations if he
acquires a minimum of 75% of attendance in aggregate of all the
subjects for Semester.
ii. Condonation of shortage of attendance in aggregate up to 10% (65% and
above and below 75%) in a Semester may be granted by Institute
Academic Committee.
iii. A student will not be permitted to write the end examination and not promoted
to the next Semester unless he satisfies the attendance requirement of the
present Semester, as applicable. He may seek re-admission for that
Semester when offered next.
5
iv. Shortage of Attendance below 65% in aggregate shall in NO case be
condoned.
v. Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned in any Semester are
not eligible to take their end semester examination of that Semester.
vi. A stipulated fee shall be payable towards condonation of shortage of
attendance.
5. Minimum Academic Requirements
The following academic requirements have to be satisfied in addition to the
attendance requirements mentioned in item No.4.
i. A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic
requirements and earned the credits allotted to each theory or practical
design or drawing subject or project, if he secures not less than 35% (25 out
of 70 marks) of marks in the end examination and a minimum of 40% of
marks in the sum total of the Midterm evaluation and end semester
examination taken together.
ii. A student shall be promoted from II to III year only if he fulfils the academic
requirement of 37 credits from the following examinations,
 Two regular and one supplementary examinations of I year I Semester
 One Regular and One Supplementary exam of I year II Semester
 one regular examination of II year I Semester irrespective
iii. A student shall be promoted from III year to IV year only if he fulfils the
academic requirements of total 62 credits from the following
examinations,
 Three regular and Two supplementary examinations of I B Tech I Semester.
 Two regular and two Supplementary examinations for I B Tech II Semester
 Two regular and one supplementary examinations up to the end of II year I
Semester.
 One regular and one supplementary examinations of II year II Semester.
 One regular examination of III year I Semester.
iv. A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 200
credits and earn the 200 credits. Marks obtained in all 200 credits shall be
considered for the calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA).
v. In addition to the above 200 credits the student must complete the non credit
courses also. The non-credit courses awarded with a grade of satisfactory or
not satisfactory based on the attendance of the student. Minimum attendance
for the non-credit course is 75%.
6
vi. The student should also register and complete any two value added courses
offered by the Institute.
vii. Students who fail to earn 200 credits as indicated in the course structure
within eight academic years from the year of
their admission shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech. course and their
admission stands cancelled.
6. Course pattern
i. The entire course of study is of four academic years. All the I, II, III and IV
years are of Semester pattern .
ii. A student eligible to appear for the end semester examination in a subject,
but absent or has failed in the end semester examination may reappear for
that subject at the supplementary examination whenever conducted.
iii. When a student is detained due to shortage of attendance in any Semester,
he may be re-admitted into that Semester when it is offered next, with the
academic regulations of the batch into which he gets readmitted.
iv. When a student is detained due to lack of credits in any year, he may be
eligible to be promoted or for promotion into the next year after fulfillment of
the academic requirements, with the academic regulations of the batch
into which he gets admitted
Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
A student will be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. Degree if
he/she fulfils the following academic regulations:
i) Pursued a course of study for not less than four academic years and not
more than eight academic years.
ii) Registered for 200 credits and secured 200 credits and other Academic
Requirements .
iii) complete the non-credit courses and value added courses as per their course
structure.
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award
of the degree within eight academic years from the year of their
admission, shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech. Course.
7. CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points:
The absolute grading method is followed, based on the total marks obtained
in internal and external examinations. Grades and grade points are assigned
as per the Table given below
7
B.Tech Program: The Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the total marks
obtained in internal and external examinations. Grades and Grade points are assigned
as given below
Marks Obtained Grade Description Grade Points(GP)
of Grade Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A+ Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 A Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 B Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 C Fair 6.00
>=40 and <49.99 D Pass 5.00
<40 F Remedial
Not Appeared the Exam(s) N Absent
The student is eligible for the award of the B.Tech degree with the class as
mentioned in the Table.
CGPA CLASS
>= 7.5 First Class with Distinction
>= 6.5 and <7.5 First class
>= 5.5 and < 6.5 Second Class
>=5.0 and < 5.5 Pass class
Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
The performance of each student at the end of the each semester is indicated in terms
of SGPA. The SGPA is calculated as below:
8
Where ‘Ci’ = Number of Credits allotted to particular subject ‘I’
‘Gi’ = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded in that subject ‘i”
‘i”= 1,2,…..P represent the number of subjects for that particular semester
* SGPA is calculated and awarded for the candidates who pass all the courses in
a semester.
Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) for Entire Programme.
The CGPA is calculated as below:
Assessment of the overall performance of a student is obtained by calculating
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA), which is weighted average of the grade
points obtained in all subjects during the course of study.
Where Ci= Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘I”
Gi = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded in that
subject ‘i”
I= 1,2,….m represent the number of subjects of the entire program.
Grade lower than D in any subject is not considered for CGPA calculation. The CGPA
is awarded only when the student acquires the required number of credits prescribed
for the program.
Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
e) Award list indicating the marks awarded to the student.
9
8. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to College, or if any case of indiscipline is
pending against him, the result of the candidate may be withheld and he will
not be allowed to go into the next higher Semester. The award or issue of
the Degree may also be withheld in such cases.
9. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of
attendance or any other academic requirements, may be considered for
readmission as and when they become eligible. They have to take up
Equivalent subjects, as substitute subject in place of repetition of subjects as
decided by the Institute Academic Committee.
10. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each Semester shall be 90 instruction
days.
11. There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission
process.
12. The decision of the Institute Academic Committee will be final in respect
of equivalent subjects for those students who are transferred from
other colleges. The procedure for permitting students to transfer from
other colleges will be decided by the principal / Institute Academic
Committee keeping the Government Rules in view.
13. General
i. Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include “she”,
“her”, “hers”.
ii. The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
iii. In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arises in the above rules and
regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
iv. The College may change or amend any or all of the academic regulations or
syllabi at any time and the changes or amendments made shall be applicable to
all the students concerned with effect from the dates notified by the College.
14. Academic Regulations for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2013-2014)
(i) A student shall register for all 150 credits and earn all the 150 credits. Marks
obtained in all 150 credits shall be considered for the calculation of the class.
(ii) A student who fails to earn 150 credits as indicated in the course structure within
six academic years from the year of their admission shall forfeit their seat in
B.Tech. programme and their admission stands cancelled.
10
(iii) The same attendance regulations are adopted as that of B.Tech. Four year
degree course.
(iv) A student shall be promoted from third year to fourth year only on fulfilling the
academic requirements of securing 37 credits from the following examinations.
a. Two regular and one supplementary examination of II year I Semester
b. One regular and one supplementary examination of II year II Semester
c. One regular examination of III year I Semester.
In case of getting detained for want of credits the student may make up the
credits through supplementary exams of the above exams before the date of
commencement of class work for IV year I Semester.
(v) All other regulations as applicable to B.Tech. four year degree course will hold
good for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme).
15. Malpractice Rules
Disciplinary Action for Malpractices/Improper Conduct in Examinations
Nature of Malpractices/Improper Punishment
conduct
If the candidate:
1. (a) Possesses or keeps accessible in Expulsion from the examination hall and
examination hall, any paper, note cancellation of the performance in that
book, programmable calculators, Cell subject only.
phones, pager, palm computers or
any other form of material concerned
with or related to the subject of the
examination (theory or practical) in
which he is appearing but has not
made use of (material shall include
any marks on the body of the
candidate which can be used as an
aid in the subject of the examination)
11
(b)Gives assistance or guidance or Expulsion from the examination hall and
receives it from any other candidate cancellation of the performance in that
orally or by any other body language subject only of all the candidates
methods or communicates through involved. In case of an outsider, he will
cell phones with any candidate or be handed over to the police and a
persons in or outside the exam hall in case is registered against him.
respect of any matter.
2. Has copied in the examination hall Expulsion from the examination hall and
from any paper, book, programmable cancellation of the performance in that
calculators, palm computers or any subject and all other subjects the
other form of material relevant to the candidate has already appeared
subject of the examination (theory or including practical examinations and
practical) in which the candidate is project work and shall not be permitted
appearing. to appear for the remaining
examinations of the subjects of that
Semester/year.
The Hall Ticket of the candidate is to
be cancelled.
3. Impersonates any other candidate in The candidate who has impersonated
connection with the examination. shall be expelled from examination hall.
The candidate is also debarred and
forfeits the seat. The performance of the
original candidate who has been
impersonated, shall be cancelled in all
the subjects of the examination
(including practicals and project work)
already appeared and shall not be
allowed to appear for examinations of
the remaining subjects of that
semester/year. The candidate is also
debarred for two consecutive semesters
from class work and all end semester
examinations. The continuation of the
12
course by the candidate is subject to
the academic regulations in connection
with forfeiture of seat. If the imposter is
an outsider, he will be handed over to
the police and a case is registered
against him.
4. Smuggles the Answer book or Expulsion from the examination hall and
additional sheet or takes out or cancellation of performance in that
arranges to send out the question subject and all the other subjects the
paper during the examination or candidate has already appeared
answer book or additional sheet, including practical examinations and
during or after the examination. project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class work
and all end semester examinations. The
continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the academic
regulations in connection with forfeiture
of seat.
5. U s e s o b j e c t i o n a b l e , a b u s i v e o r C a n c e ll a t i o n o f t h e p e r f o r m a n c e i n t h a t
offensive language in the answer subject.
paper or in letters to the examiners or
writes to the examiner requesting him
to award pass marks.
6. Refuses to obey the orders of the In case of students of the college, they
Chief Superintendent/Assistant – shall be expelled from examination halls
Superintendent / any officer on duty and cancellation of their performance in
or misbehaves or creates disturbance that subject and all other subjects the
of any kind in and around the candidate(s) has (have) already
examination hall or organizes a walk appeared and shall not be permitted to
out or instigates others to walk out, or appear for the remaining examinations
threatens the officer-in charge or any of the subjects of that semester/year.
person on duty in or outside the The candidates are also debarred and
examination hall of any injury to his forfeit their seats. In case of outsiders,
person or to any of his relations they will be handed over to the police
13
whether by words, either spoken or and a police case is registered against
written or by signs or by visible them.
representation, assaults the officer-
in-charge, or any person on duty in or
outside the examination hall or any of
his relations, or indulges in any other
act of misconduct or mischief which
result in damage to or destruction of
property in the examination hall or
any part of the College campus or
engages in any other act which in the
opinion of the officer on duty amounts
to use of unfair means or misconduct
or has the tendency to disrupt the
orderly conduct of the examination.
7. Leaves the exam hall taking away Expulsion from the examination hall and
answer script or intentionally tears of cancellation of performance in that
the script or any part thereof inside or subject and all the other subjects the
outside the examination hall. candidate has already appeared
including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class work
and all University examinations. The
continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the academic
regulations in connection with forfeiture
of seat.
8. Possess any lethal weapon or firearm Expulsion from the examination hall and
in the examination hall. cancellation of the performance in that
subject and all other subjects the
candidate has already appeared
including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be permitted
14
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred and forfeits
the seat.
9. If student of the college, who is not a If the student belongs to the college,
candidate for the particular expulsion from the examination hall and
examination or any person not cancellation of the performance in that
connected with the college indulges subject and all other subjects the
in any malpractice or improper candidate has already appeared
conduct mentioned in clause 6 to 8. including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred and forfeits
the seat.
Person(s) who do not belong to
the College will be handed over to
police and, a police case will be
registered against them.
10. Comes in a drunken condition to the Expulsion from the examination hall and
examination hall. cancellation of the performance in that
subject and all other subjects the
candidate has already appeared
including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year.
11. Copying detected on the basis of Cancellation of the performance in that
internal evidence, such as, during subject and all other subjects the
valuation or during special scrutiny. candidate has appeared including
practical examinations and project work
of that semester/year.
12. If any malpractice is detected which
is not covered in the above clauses 1
15
to 11 shall be reported to the
academic council of the Institute for
further action to award suitable
punishment.
Malpractices identified by squad or special invigilators
Punishments to the candidates as per the above guidelines.
Malpractice identified at Spot center during valuation
The following procedure is to be followed in the case of malpractice cases
detected during valuation, scrutiny etc. at spot center.
1) Malpractice is detected at the spot valuation. The case is to be referred to the
malpractice committee. Malpractice committee will meet and discuss/question
the candidate and based on the evidences, the committee will recommend
suitable action on the candidate.
2) A notice is to be served to the candidate(s) involved through the Principal to his
address and to the candidate(s) permanent address regarding the malpractice
and seek explanations.
3) The involvement of staff who are in charge of conducting examinations,
invigilators valuing examination papers and preparing / keeping records of
documents relating to the examinations in such acts (inclusive of providing in
correct or misleading information) that infringe upon the course of natural justice
to one and all concerned at the examinations shall be viewed seriously and
recommended for award of appropriate punishment after thorough enquire.
4) Based on the explanation and recommendation of the committee action may be
initiated.
5) Malpractice committee:
i. Controller of Examinations Chairman
ii. Assistant controller of Evaluation Member
iii. Chief Examiner of the subject/subject expert Member
iv. Concerned Head of the Department Member
16
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
Regulations- R12
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
MTH1101 Mathematics – I 3 1 3
MTH1102 Mathematics- II 3 1 3
PHY1101 Engineering Physics 3 1 3
ENG1101 English 3 0 3
CSE1101 Computer Programming 3 0 3
MED1105 Engineering Drawing 2 4 4
English Language Communication
ENG1203 0 3 2
Skills Lab
CSE1201 Computer Programming Laboratory 0 3 2
MED1202 Workshop Practice 0 3 2
Total 17 16 25
17
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
EEE1101 Circuit Theory 4 0 4
MTH1104 Numerical analysis and Linear
Programming 3 1 3
PHY1103 Advanced Engineering Physics 3 1 3
CHE1101 Engineering Chemistry 3 0 3
ITD1102 Data Structures 3 0 3
ECE1101 Electronic Devices and circuits 3 1 3
ITD1202 Data Structures Laboratory 0 3 2
Engineering Physics &
EPC1201 0 3 2
Engineering Chemistry Laboratory
Electronic Devices and circuits
ECE1201 0 3 2
Laboratory
Total 19 12 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
18
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
MTH1105 Applied Mathematics 4 1 4
Probability Theory and Stochastic
ECE1102 4 1 4
Processes
EIE1101 Signals and Systems 4 1 4
EEE1154 Principles of Electrical Engineering 3 1 3
ECE1103 Electronic Circuit Analysis 4 1 4
Non Credit
NCC1101 Human Values and Professional Ethics 2
Audit Course
ECE1202 Basic Simulation Laboratory 0 3 2
ECE1203 Electronic Circuit Analysis Laboratory 0 3 2
EEE1252 Electrical Engineering Laboratory 0 3 2
Total 21 14 25
19
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
EEE1105 Control Systems 3 1 3
ECE1104 Switching Theory and Logic Design 4 0 4
Electromagnetic Theory and
ECE1105 4 1 4
Transmission Lines
EIE1104 Pulse and Digital Circuits 3 1 3
CED1105 Environmental Studies 3 1 3
ECE1106 Analog Communications 4 1 4
ECE1204 Analog Communications Laboratory 0 3 2
Pulse and Digital Circuits
EIE1202 0 3 2
Laboratory
Total 21 11 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
20
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
III YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
ITD1104 Computer Organization 4 0 4
Linear and Digital IC
EIE1106 4 0 4
Applications
ECE1107 Digital Communications 3 1 3
Antennas and Wave
ECE1108 4 0 4
Propagation
Business Economics and
CMS1101 4 0 4
Financial Analysis
Soft Skills and Personality Non Credit Audit
NCC1102 2
Development Course
Advanced English
ENG1204 Communication Skills 0 3 2
Laboratory
Linear and Digital IC
EIE1204 0 3 2
Applications Laboratory
Digital Communications
ECE1205 0 3 2
Laboratory
Total 21 10 25
21
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
III YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
EIE1124 Electronic Measurements
3 1 3
and Instrumentation
CMS1102 Management Science 4 0 4
ECE1109 Microprocessors and
4 0 4
Microcontrollers
ECE1110 Digital Signal Processing 3 1 3
Open Elective -1
ITD1105 Object Oriented
Programming through JAVA 3 0 3
ITD1122 Cloud Computing
EEE1127 Renewable Energy Sources
ECE1111 Microwave Engineering
4 0 4
ECE1206 Microprocessors and
0 3 2
Microcontrollers Laboratory
ECE1207 Digital Signal Processing
0 3 2
Laboratory
Total 21 8 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
22
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
IV YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
ECE1112 VLSI Design 3 0 3
ITD1106 Computer Networks 4 0 4
Elective – I
ECE1113 Digital Image Processing
ECE1114 Optical Communications
3 0 3
EEE1119 Artificial Neural Networks and Fuzzy Logic
Open Elective -2
MED1164 Elements of Nano Technology
3 0 3
CED1147 Disaster Management
ITD 1107 Operating Systems
Elective – II
ECE1115 RADAR Systems
CSE1130 Relational Data Base Management 3 0 3
Systems
ECE1116 Speech Processing
Elective – III
ECE1117 DSP Processors and Architectures
3 0 3
ECE1118 Telecommunication Switching Systems
ECE1119 Satellite Communications
ECE1208 Microwave Engineering Laboratory 0 3 2
ECE1209 ECAD and VLSI Laboratory 0 3 2
ECE1301 Industry Oriented mini – Project 0 6 2
Total 19 12 25
*Major Project initiated in I.Sem and Evaluated in II.Sem
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
23
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
IV YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
ECE1120 Cellular and Mobile Communications
3 1 3
Elective –IV
ECE1121 Spread Spectrum Communications
ECE1122 Digital Design through Verilog
3 0 3
CSE1112 Cryptography and Network Security
ECE1123 Television and Video Engineering
Elective – V
ECE1124 Embedded Real Time Operating Systems
ECE1125 Adhoc Wireless Networks 3 0 3
EIE1107 Bio-Medical Instrumentation
ECE1126 CPLD and FPGA Architectures
ECE1302 Technical Seminar
0 3 2
ECE1303 Comprehensive Viva
0 3 2
ECE1304 Project work
0 18 12
Total 9 22 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
Note: All End Examinations (Theory and Practical/ Drawing) are of three
hours duration.
24
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MTH1101) MATHEMATICS – I
(Advanced Calculus)
Pre-requisites: Calculus
Course Objectives
 Understand Taylor’s theorem and its application to maxima and minima of f(x,y)
 Understand the process of curve sketching
 Understand multiple integrals and its applications
 Apply the integral theorems of vector calculus.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Solve problems involving the maxima and minima of f(x,y).
 Apply the curve tracing concepts to find arc length of curves, surface area,
volume of solids of revolution.
 Evaluate the multiple integrals using appropriate change of variables.
 Verify the integral theorems.
UNIT I
Differential Calculus
Mean value theorems - Rolle’s theorem, Lagrange’s theorem, Cauchy’s theorem, and
generalized mean value theorem (Taylor’s Theorem) (statements only), Curvature and
Radius of curvature, Curve tracing – Cartesian, polar and parametric curves(standard
curves only)
UNIT II
Functions of Several Variables
Partial differentiation; Euler’s theorem, Functional dependence; Jacobian; Maxima and
Minima of functions of two variables with constraints and without constraints.
UNIT III
Improper integrals and Multiple intehgrals
Improper Integrals; Beta, Gamma, and Error integrals - Properties and simple
applications. Applications of integration to lengths, volumes and surface areas in
cartesian and polar coordinates. Multiple integrals - double and triple integrals, change
of variables ( Cylindrical and Spherical polar coordinates) and change of order of
integration.
25
UNIT IV
Vector calculus
Introduction to vector and scalar functions; gradient, curl, divergence, and their related
properties of sums and products; Laplacian and second order operators; Vector
integration - line integral, work done, potential function; Area, surface, and volume
integrals; Statements of Vector integral theorems and their verification (without proofs)
- Green’s theorem, Stoke’s theorem, and Gauss divergence theorem.
UNIT V
Elementary analysis
Sequences and series - convergence and divergence, ratio test, comparison test,
integral test, Cauchy’s root test, Raabe’s test (statements only for the tests), and
absolute and conditional convergence.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Calculus and Analytic Geometry by Thomas and Finney, 9th edition;
Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Higher Engineering Mathematics – by Dr. B. S. Grewal, 40th edition,
Publisher: Khanna Publishers.
3. Schaum’s Outline of Vector Analysis by Murray R. Spiegel (2011); 2nd
edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES
1. Elementary Analysis: The Theory of Calculus by Kenneth Ross; Publisher:
Springer
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition; Publisher:
John Wiley.
26
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MTH1102) MATHEMATICS – II
(Linear Algebra and Ordinary Differential Equations)
Pre-requisites: Basic Algebra
Course Objectives
 Understand the Echolen form and Normal form of a matrix and its applications in
solving linear system of equations.
 Understand the methods of solving first order differential equations and learn
about its applications to L-R and R-C circuits.
 Apply the convolution theorem to evaluate Laplace Transform of the functions.
 Apply Z-Transforms in solving the difference equations.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Find the rank using Echolen form and Normal form.
 Solve the problems in first order and second order differential equations.
 Learn Laplace Transform as a tool.
 Evaluate the Z-Transform of the given function.
LINEAR ALGEBRA
UNIT I
Solution of linear systems
Matrices and linear systems of equations - elementary row transformations, Rank, row
Echelon form, and normal form; Solution of linear systems - direct methods - LU
decomposition, LU decomposition from Gauss elimination, and solution of Tri-diagonal
systems by Thomas algorithm; Eigen values, eigen vectors, and their properties -
Liner dependence and independence; Cayley-Hamilton theorem (without proof) -
inverse and powers of a matrix by Cayley-Hamilton theorem, diagonalization of a
matrix, calculation of powers of a matrix; Modal and spectral matrices.
UNIT II
Linear transformations
Real matrices - symmetric, skew symmetric, and orthogonal linear transformation;
Complex matrices - Hermitian, Skew-Hermitian and unitary matrices; Quadratic forms -
reduction of quadratic form to canonical form, rank, positive, negative definite, semi
definite, index, signature, Sylvester law, and singular value decomposition.
ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
27
UNIT III
Ordinary differential equations and their applications
Differential equations of first order and first degree - Linear, Bernoulli and exact
differential equation; Applications of differential equations of first order and first degree
- Newton’s law of cooling, Law of natural growth and decay, Orthogonal trajectories,
and basic circuits.
UNIT IV
Differential equations of higher order and their applications
Differential equations of higher order - homogeneous and non-homogenous type,
differential equations of second order and higher order with constant coefficients with
ax ax
right hand side term of the type e , sin (ax), cos (ax), polynomials in x, e V(x),
x V(x), and method of variation of parameters and Euler-Cauchy’s 2nd order differential
equations, applications to mechanical systems and Simple harmonic motion.
UNIT V
Laplace transform and application to ODE
Laplace transform of standard functions; Inverse transform-first shifting theorem;
Dirac’s delta function; Convolution theorem; Periodic function; Differentiation and
integration of transforms; Application of Laplace transforms to ordinary differential
equations.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Differential Equations, with Applications and Historical Notes by George F.
Simmons and John S. Robertson (2008) 2nd Edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw
Hill.
2. A First Course in Differential Equations by Dennis G. Zill; Publisher: Brooks
Cole.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Dennis G. Zill, Warren S. Wright, and
Michael R. Cullen, 4th edition; Publisher: Jones & Bartlett Learning.
REFERENCES
Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition; Publisher:
John Wiley.
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher:
Cengage Learning.
2. Elementary Differential Equations and Boundary Value Problems by William E.
Boyce and Richard C. Diprima; Publisher: Wiley.
3. Linear Algebra and its applications by David C Clay; Publisher: Pearson
Education.
28
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I B.TECH ECE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(Common for all Branches)
(PHY1101) ENGINEERING PHYSICS
Pre-requisites: Intermediate Physics
Course Objectives
 To learn essential concepts in Optics as light interacts with matter.
 To learn basic principles and working of LASERS and Double refracting crystals.
 To describe structural classification and bonding in crystals.
 To know various crystal defects and crystal analysis with X-rays.
 To understand surface phenomenon and size dependent properties of solids.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Realize importance of diffraction in optical elements and interference of light in
thin films.
 work with different wave plates to obtain desired polarization and to distinguish
LASER light from ordinary light.
 Describe types of crystal systems and bonds in crystals.
 illustrate the importance of X-rays in crystal studies and identify various crystal
defects.
 Identify importance of Nano-dimensional materials.
UNIT I
INTERFERENCE
Superposition principle, resultant amplitude, coherence, methods to obtain coherent
sources, interference, Young’s double slit experiment, interference in thin films by
reflection, Newton’s rings Experiment
DIFFRACTION-I:
Distinguish between Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction, diffraction at single slit
(Qualitative and Quantitative (Phasors approach)).
29
UNIT II
DIFFRACTION-II
Diffraction at double slit, circular aperture, and multiple slits (grating)( Qualitative
Approach), Resolution of spectral lines, Rayleigh criterion, and resolving power of
grating.
POLARIZATION
Polarization phenomenon, Brewster’s Law and Malus law, examples, types of
polarization, double refraction, Nicol prism, Quarter and Half wave plates
UNIT III
LASERS:
Characteristics of Lasers – Spontaneous and Stimulated Emission of radiation, meta
stable state, population inversion, lasing action, Einstein’s coefficients and relation
between them –– Ruby Laser – Helium-Neon Laser –Semiconductor Laser –
Applications of lasers.
FIBER OPTICS:
Principle of optical fiber and properties – Acceptance angle and acceptance cone –
Numerical aperture –Types of fibers and refractive index profiles – Qualitative analysis
of attenuation in optical fibers –Application of optical fibers.
UNIT IV
ELEMENTS OF STATISTICAL MECHANICS:
Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics (non-mathematical
treatment); Photon gas, Planck’s law of black body radiation; Deduction of Wien’s law
and Rayleigh-Jeans law from Plank’s law.
PRINCIPLES OF QUANTUM MECHANICS:
Waves and particles – De Broglie hypothesis - Matter waves - Davisson and Germer
experiment –Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle - Schrodinger Wave Equation – Wave
function and its Physical Significance - Particle in one dimensional potential box(wave
functions, probability densities and energy states).
UNIT V
FREE ELECTRON FERMI GAS:
Energy levels in one dimension, Effect of temperature on the Fermi-Dirac distribution,
Free electron gas in three dimensions, electrical conductivity & Ohm’s law, Electrical
Resistivity of Metals (Qualitative).
BAND THEORY OF SOLIDS:
Electron in a periodic potential; Bloch Theorem; Kronig-Penney model (non-
mathematical treatment); Origin of energy band formation in solids; Classification of
materials into conductors, semiconductors & Insulators; and Concept of effective mass
of an electron.
30
TEXT BOOKS
(1) Physics vol.2, by Halliday, Resnick and Krane; John Wiley & Sons
(2) Concepts of Modern physics by Arthur Beiser, McGraw Hill Inc.
(3) Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel : John Wiley & Sons
REFERENCE BOOKS
(1) Engineering Physics by R.K.Gaur and S.L.Gupta; Dhanpat Rai and Sons
(2) Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd.
(3) Optics by Ghatak and Thyagarajan, Tata Mc Graw
(4) Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
(5) Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
(6) Engineering Physics by Dr M Chandra Shekar and Dr P. Appala Naidu, VGS
Book links.
(7) Introduction to Optical Communication by G. Keiser
(8) Quantum Mechanics by Gupta Kumar Sharma
31
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ECE- I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(ENG1101) ENGLISH
Introduction
This is the age of information and communication technologies. Engineers and
technical professionals need to convey technical information in English for various
purposes.
Besides learning general English as an international language, engineering students
need to be equipped with adequate writing ability so that they can communicate
technical information clearly on at least a basic level. A good English writing proficiency
can be a contributing factor to professional recognition and career prospects. This
course teaches those writing strategies that scientists, engineers, and others will need
in order to write successfully on the job. It initiates the students into Technical Writing.
The purposes of technical writing are to inform and persuade. This program aims to
train students in writing clear, concise and effective English.
This Syllabus is therefore, a Pragmatic English Writing Program for engineering
students with intermediate proficiency. The program covers a syllabus outline and
instructional approaches on basic writing skills with particular reference to technical
writing.
Pre-requisites: Intermediate English
Course Objectives:
 To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for academic writing and
speaking.
 To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns and
grammatical constructions required in technical writing as well as oral
communication.
 To acquaint the students with the writing process in preparation for academic
and workplace writing.
 Equip the students with the concept of coherence and cohesion for meaningful
and coherent communication.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Comprehend technical writing produced in the engineering profession
 Understand the writing process and create logical paragraphs
 Use infrastructural patterns in writing and speaking
32
 Communicate coherently orally and in writing.
Objectives:
i) To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for advanced writing and speaking.
ii) To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns and
grammatical constructions required of in technical writing.
iii) To acquaint the students with the writing process, beginning with paragraph
writing. This would prepare them for academic and workplace writing.
iv) Equip the students with Oral Communication Skills.
Methodology
A Task-based, process oriented methodology will be used by the teachers to give a
practical orientation to the teaching of language. An inductive approach will be used to
demonstrate the use of language in context. This should enable the students to
internalize the language structures and vocabulary used in context. Students will be
exposed to numerous examples and ample practice will be given in the contextual use
of language structures.
Syllabus Outline
Unit I : Review of Grammar
i) Common Errors v) Use of Articles and Prepositions
ii) Subject-Verb Agreement vi) Conjunctions
iii) Adverbs vii) pronoun reference
iv) Transitional elements
Unit II : Prose 1
1. Heaven’s Gate by Pico Iyer
2. The Connoisseur by Nergis Dalal
Unit III Reading and Writing Skills
i) Reading Comprehension -- Skimmimg & scanning
ii) Reading Comprehension -- Intensive reading
iii) Reading Comprehension -- Critical Analysis
iv) Paragraph Writing
v) Letter Writing
vi) Memo Writing
Unit IV : Prose 2
1. The Cuddalore Experience by Anu George
2. The Odds Against Us by Satyajit Ray
Unit V : Advanced Writing Skills
1. Comparison and Contrast Pattern
33
2. Cause and Effect Pattern
3. Classification
4. Analogy
5. Problem-Solution Pattern
Prescribed Text Books
1. Enjoying Everyday English by A. Ramakrishna Rao
2. Effective Technical Communication by Ashraf Rizvi
3. Technical Writing Process and Product by Gerson Sharon J. and Steven
Gerson. 3rd edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
References
1. M. Raman and S. Sharma, 2004; Technical Communication : Principles and
Practices, OUP, (Indian Edition)
2. Blanton, L.L. 1993; Composition Practice, Book 4 ,Second Edition, Heinle & Heinle
Publishers, pp. 54
3. Georges, T.M. 1996; A course in Analytical Writing for Science and Technology,
http://www.mspiggy.etl.noaa.gov/write/
4. Neufeld, J.K. 1987; A Handbook for Technical Communication, Prentice-Hall, Inc.
pp.20,65-68
5. Yalden, J. 1987; Principles of Course Design for Language Teaching, Cambridge
University Press
6. David F. Beer and David McMurrey, Guide to Writing as an Engineer, 2nd ed.,
Wiley, 2004, ISBN: 0471430749.
7. Greaney, G.L. 1997; Less is More: Summary Writing and Sentence Structure in the
Advanced ESL Classroom, The Internet TESL Journal, Vol.III, No.9
http://iteslj.org/Techniques/Greaney-Writing.html
34
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(CSE1101) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING
Pre-requisites: Basic computer Knowledge
Course Objectives
 Discuss the fundamentals concepts of C programming.
 Identify the appropriate decision making and branching statements to solve the
problem.
 Understand different derived data types and the concepts of files
 Usage of different c concepts in problem solving.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Understand the fundamentals of C programming.
 Choose the loops and decision making statements to solve the problem.
 Usage of different derived data types and the concepts of files
 Implement different c concepts in problem solving.
UNIT I
Computer fundamentals-Hardware, software, computer language , translators,
Program Development steps-Algorithms, Pseudo code, flow charts, Introduction to C
Language – History, Simple C Program, Identifiers, Basic data types, user defined data
types, Variables, Constants, type qualifiers, Managing Input / Output, Operators,
Expressions, Precedence and Associativity, Expression Evaluation, Type conversions,
Simple C Programming examples.
UNIT II
Selection Statements – if and switch statements, Repetitive statements – while, for, do-
while statements, C Programming examples, other statements related to looping –
break, continue, go to, C Programming examples.
Arrays – Basic concepts, one-dimensional arrays, two – dimensional arrays,
multidimensional arrays, C programming examples.
UNIT III
Introduction to Structured Programming, Functions- basics, user defined functions,
inter function communication, Standard functions, Storage classes-auto, register,
static, extern, scope rules, arrays to functions, recursive functions, example C
programs.
35
Strings – Basic concepts, String Input / Output functions, arrays of strings, string
handling functions, strings to functions, C programming examples.
UNIT IV
Derived types – Structures – Basic concepts, nested structures, arrays of structures,
structures and functions, unions, bit fields, C programming examples.
Pointers – Basic concepts, pointers and functions, pointers and strings, pointers and
arrays, pointers and structures, self referential structures , example C programs.
UNIT V
Preprocessor Directives, Dynamic Memory Allocation
File I/O – Basic concepts, text files and binary files, file input / output operations, file
status functions (error handling), C programming examples, Command-Line
Arguments.
TEXT BOOKS
1. C programming A Problem-Solving Approach by Behrouz
A.Forouzan,E.V.Prasad,Richard F.Gilberg
2. C How to Program Paul Deitel and Harvey Deitel , PH
3 Computer Programming and Data Structures by E Balagurusamy, Tata
McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES
1. Let Us C Yashavant kanetkar BPB
2. The C Programming Language by Brian W. Kernighan, Dennis M. Ritchie
3. Absolute beginner's guide to C, Greg M. Perry, Edition 2,Publisher: Sams
Pub.,1994
36
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
2 4 4
(MED1105) ENGINEERING DRAWING
(Common to EEE, ECE, EIE, CSE & IT)
Pre-requisites: Geometrical constructions
Course Objectives:
 Remember the conventions of Engineering Drawing and Auto Cad software
commands
 Remember the importance of engineering curves
 Know the importance of orthographic projections for points, lines, planes and
solids
 Know the various types of projections- orthographic to isometric and vice-versa
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Interpret the concepts of curves and Solve the problems as per the drawing
conventions in Auto Cad
 Solve the problems on Projections for points,lines, planes and solids in Auto
Cad
 Apply the concepts of isometric projections and solve the problems in Auto CAD
 Apply the concepts of orthographic projections and solve the problems in Auto
CAD
UNIT I
Introduction to engineering graphics – construction of ellipse, parabola and hyperbola
– cycloidal curves.
UNIT II
Orthographic projections of points, lines and planes – axis inclined to one planes and
inclined to both the planes.
UNIT III
Orthographic projections of solids:
Cylinder, cone, prism, pyramid and sphere positions and axis inclined to both the
planes.
UNIT IV
Isometric Scale, Isometric drawing and Isometric projections of lines, planes and
simple solids.
37
UNIT V
Conversion of orthographic views into isometric views for simple objects. Construction
of orthographic projections for given isometric projections.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering drawings By N.D.Bhatt.
2 Engineering graphics By K.L. Narayana and P.Kannayya.
REFERENCES
1. Engineering drawing and graphics: Venugopal/ New age
2. Engineering drawing : Johle / TMH
38
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
( ENG1203 ) ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS
LABORATORY
The English language Communication Skills Lab aims to provide practice in all the four
skills of LSRW, with a special emphasis on listening and speaking skills.
Pre-requisites: Intermediate English, Intermediate level LSRW skills
Course Objectives
 Provide ample practice in LSRW skills and train the students in oral
presentations, public speaking, role play and situational dialogue.
 Provide practice in vocabulary usage, grammatical construction, structural
patterns, and improve comprehension abilities in the students.
 Train students to use neutral pronunciation through phonetic sounds, symbols,
stress and intonation.
 Enable students to transfer information from verbal to graphic representation
and vice versa
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Comprehend spoken and written discourse.
 Speak fluently with neutral pronunciation and exhibit interpersonal skills.
 Write accurately, coherently and lucidly making appropriate use of words
depending on context and present data clearly.
 Introduce oneself to people and be able to speak extempore.
Syllabus for Lab Sessions
UNIT I
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar : Nouns and Pronouns; Articles; The Present Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 1
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: Introduction of Self and others
39
UNIT II
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar : Concord; Adjectives; The Past Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 2
3. Listening Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Seeking and Giving Information, Giving and Taking
Instructions
UNIT III
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar --- adverbs, conjunctions, Prepositions; The Future Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 3
3. Telephoning Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Role Play/ Situational Dialogues
UNIT IV
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar ---- Active and Passive Voice; Language Analysis
2. Vocabulary : Lesson 4
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: i) JAM/ Short Talk ii) Information Transfer
a) Data Analysis
b) Interpretation of Graph
UNIT V
Multimedia Lab
1. Introduction to Technical Writing
A. Definition of a Technical Term
B. Description of a Mechanism
C. Description of a Technical Process
2. Vocabulary : Lesson 5
Communication Skills Lab : Presentation Skills : Oral Presentation
Multimedia Lab Requirements
The English Language Lab shall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Lab for 60 students with 60 systems, one
master console, LAN facility and English language software for self- study by
learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Lab with movable chairs and audio-visual aids
with a P.A System a T. V., a digital stereo –audio & video system and
camcorder etc.
System Requirement (Hardware component):
40
Computer network with Lan with minimum 60 multimedia systems with the
following specifications:
iv) P – IV Processor
a) Speed – 2.8 GHZ
b) RAM – 512 MB Minimum
c) Hard Disk – 80 GB
v) Headphones of High quality
5. Suggested Software:
The software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above should be
procured and used.
Suggested Software:
 Clarity Pronunciation Power – part II
 Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
 DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill
Practice.
 Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
 TOEFL & GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO & BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE by
CLIFFS)
Multimedia Lab Requirements
Minimum Requirement:
The English Language Lab shall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Lab for 60 students with 60 systems, one
master console, LAN facility and English language software for self- study by
learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Lab with movable chairs and audio-visual aids
with a P.A System, a T. V., a digital stereo –audio & video system and
camcorder etc.
System Requirement (Hardware component):
Computer network with Lan with minimum 60 multimedia systems with the
following specifications:
iv) P – IV Processor
a) Speed – 2.8 GHZ
b) RAM – 512 MB Minimum
c) Hard Disk – 80 GB
v) Headphones of High quality
5. Suggested Software:
The software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above should be
procured and used.
Suggested Software:
 Clarity Pronunciation Power – part II
41
 Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
 DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill
Practice.
 Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
 TOEFL & GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO & BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE by
CLIFFS)
42
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/ D C
0 3 2
(CSE1201) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING LABORATORY
Pre-requisites: Basic computer Knowledge
Course Objectives
 Discuss about different linux commands.
 Understand the basic structure of C Programming.
 List different decision making and branching statements, derived data types to
solve the given problem
 Usage of different c concepts in problem solving.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Able to write, compile and debug programs in C language using both Linux and
windows environment
 Implement appropriate decision making statements and derived data types to
solve a given problem.
 Implement different concept s of files to solve real world examples.
 Implement different c concepts in problem solving.
Week 1
a. Basic Linux commands
b. Simple C programs -to implement basic arithmetic operations – sum, average,
product, smallest, largest of the numbers, difference, quotient and remainder of
given numbers etc.
Week 2
Programs on if, else-if, nested if, else if ladder - largest and smallest of given
numbers, to find the grade of a student based on marks, roots of a quadratic
equation etc.
Week 3
a. Programs on switch-case – to check the type of a given character, to find the
grade of a student etc.
b. Programs on while and do-while- to find factorial, Fibonacci series, GCD, sin(x),
cos(x) series , to check whether a given number is an Armstrong, Palindrome,
Perfect, number conversion, and Prime number etc.
Week 4
43
Programs on for loop- sum of n natural numbers, factorial, sin(x), to generate
Pascal’s triangle etc.
Week 5
a. Programs on nested loops – check for Fibonacci prime, Pyramids of numbers,
generation of prime numbers in the given range, multiplication table etc.
b. programs using break, go to, continue.
Week 6
a. Programs on 1-D array-finding Minimum and maximum element, Sorting and
Searching etc.
b. Programs on 2-D array – Sum, product and Multiplication of two Matrices etc.
Week 7
a. Programs on Functions-Implementation of user defined functions categories,
passing of arrays to functions etc.
b. Programs on recursion - factorial of a given integer, GCD of two given integers
etc.
Week 8
1. Programs on String handling functions-Copying, reverse, substring,
concatenation.
2. Programs on structure and unions.
Week 9
Midterm exam
Week 10
Programs using pointers- pointer basic operations, pointers and functions etc
Week 11
Programs on pointers and structures, Pointers and arrays, pointers and strings.
Week 12
Programs on files-Implementation of file handling functions.
Week 13
a. Programs on files error handling.
b. Programs on Dynamic memory allocation
Week 14
Programs on command line arguments.
Week 15
Programs on preprocessor directives
Week 16
Internal Lab Exam
44
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(MED1202) WORKSHOP PRACTICE
(Common to CE, EEE, ECE, EIE, CSE & IT)
(8 + 8 Weeks)
TRADES FOR EXCERCISES
Pre-requisites: Basic Knowledge of Maths, English, Physics
CourseObjectives:
 To study/demonstrate the concepts of computer w.r.t. its hardware, operating
system, assembling and disassembling.
 To conduct the experiments related to production engineering technology.
 To demonstrate the usage of power tools
 To get the knowledge of machine shop for different exercises
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 To identify, assemble, dissemble, install and write commands for a given
configuration of a computer.
 To create components using the techniques of Carpentry, Tin Smithy,
Welding and Fitting etc. listed in trades for exercises.
 To evaluate the jobs prepared in different trades with the models prepared
using various machine tools.
 To evaluate the performance of different Power Tools.
Any eight exercises from the following trades (at least one exercise from each)
1. Carpentry
2. Fitting
3. Welding
4. Electrical Wiring
5. Lathe Operations
IT WORK SHOP EXCERCISES
Any eight exercises from the following :
1. Computer Hardware: Identification of Peripherals
2. Assembling and disassembling of a PC
45
3. Simple diagnostic exercises – Related to hardware
Installation of Windows Operating System
4. Installation of Linux Operating System
5. Linux Basic Commands
6. Simple diagnostic exercises –Related to Operating System
TEXTBOOKS
1. Work shop Manual - P.Kannaiah/ K.L.Narayana, Scitech Publishers.
2. Workshop Manual by Venkat Reddy.
3. Engineering Workshop Practice – V Ramesh Babu, VRB Publishers Pvt. Ltd.
4. IT Essentials PC Hardware and Software Companion Guide Third Edition by
Davis Anfinson and Ken Quamme – CISCO Press, Pearson Education.
5. PC Hardware and A+ Handbook – Kate J. Chase PHI (Microsoft)
46
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(EEE1101) CIRCUIT THEORY
Pre-requisites: Mathematics, Physics
Course Objectives
 To analyze transient response of circuits with dc excitation
 To understand two port network parameters, filters and attenuators
 To know about performance of DC machines
 To understand the operation of transformers and AC machines
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Analyze transient response of circuits
 Evaluate two port parameters and design simple filters
 Appreciate the working of DC machines
 Understand the operation of transformers and AC machines.
UNIT I Introduction to Electrical Circuits
Circuit Concept – R-L-C parameters – Voltage and Current sources – Independent and
dependent sources-Source transformation – Voltage – Current relationship for passive
elements (for different input signals-square, ramp, saw tooth, triangular). Kirchhoff’s
laws – network reduction techniques – series, parallel, series parallel, star-to-delta or
delta-to-star transformation.
UNIT II Magnetic Circuits
Magnetic Circuits – Faraday’s laws of electromagnetic induction – concept of self and
mutual inductance – dot convention – coefficient of coupling – composite magnetic
circuit - Analysis of series and parallel magnetic circuits
UNIT III Single Phase A.C Circuits
R.M.S and Average values and form factor for different periodic wave forms, Steady
state analysis of R, L and C (in series, parallel and series parallel combinations) with
sinusoidal excitation – Concept of Reactance, Impedance, Susceptance and
Admittance – Phase and Phase difference – concept of power factor, Real and
Reactive powers – J-notation, Complex and Polar forms of representation, Complex
power.
47
UNIT IV Locus diagrams and Resonance
Locus diagrams – series R-L, R-C, R-L-C and parallel combination with variation of
various parameters – Resonance – series, parallel circuits, concept of band width and
Q factor.
UNIT V Network topology and Network theorems
Definitions – Graph – Tree, Basic cutset and Basic Tieset matrices for planar networks
– Nodal analysis, Mesh analysis, Super Node and Super Mesh analysis of Networks
with Independent and Dependent voltage and current sources - Duality and Dual
networks.
Superposition, Reciprocity, Thevenin’s, Norton’s, Maximum Power Transfer,
Tellegen’s, Millman’s and Compensation theorems for d.c. and a.c. excitations.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering circuit analysis - William Hayt and Jack E. Kemmerly, Mc Graw Hill
Company, 6th Edition.
2. Network Analysis - A. Sudhakar, Shyammohan Palli, Mc Graw Hill Company,
3. Circuit Theory - A. Chakrabarti, Dhanipat Rai and Co., 6th Edition.
REFERENCES
1. Network Analysis by M. E Van valkenburg, PHI.
2. Linear circuit analysis (time domain phasor, and Laplace transform
approaches) by RAYMOND A.DECARLO and PEN-MIN-LIN, Oxford University
Press. 2nd Edition 2004.
3. Network Theory: - N.C. Jagan and C.Lakshminarayana, B.S Publications.
4. Electrical Circuit theory by K. Rajeswaran, Pearson Education 2004.
5. Basic Circuit analysis by D.R, Cunningham and J.A Stuller, Jaico Publications.
48
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MTH1104) NUMERICAL ANALYSIS AND LINEAR PROGRAMMING
NUMERICAL ANALYSIS
Pre-requisites: Integration, Differentiation
Course Objectives
 Understand the numerical methods for non linear systems, evaluating definite
integrals and ordinary differential equations.
 Understand various methods of interpolation.
 Understand the simplex method and methods to solve the transportation
problem.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Apply the numerical methods to find a root of algebraic and transcendental
equations.
 Apply the numerical methods to find the solutions of ordinary differential
equations.
 Use simplex method procedure to optimize a linear function.
 Solve transportation problems.
UNIT I Solutions of non-linear systems
Introduction; Mathematical preliminaries; Solution of algebraic and transcendental
equations – the bisection method, the method of false position, the iteration method,
Newton - Raphson method, and their order of convergence.
UNIT II Interpolation
Introduction; Errors in polynomial interpolation; Finite differences; Forward differences;
Backward differences; Central differences; Symbolic relations and separation of
symbols; Differences of a polynomial; Newton’s formulae for interpolation; Central
difference interpolation formulae; Gauss’s central difference formulae; Lagrange and
Hermit interpolation formulae; Cubic spline interpolation.
UNIT III Numerical Integration
Trapezoidal rule, Simpson’s 1/3 rule, and Simpson’s 3/8 rule.
Numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations
49
Solution of initial value problems by Taylor’s series - Picard’s method of successive
approximations, Euler’s method, and Runge - Kutta methods; Predictor Corrector
methods - Adams Moulton method, and Milne’s method.
UNIT IV Numerical solutions of partial differential equations (PDE)
Introduction; Classification of second order PDE; Approximation of derivatives by finite
difference method; Solution of Laplace equation - Jacobi’s method, Gauss-Seidal
(Leibmann’s) method, Solution of parabolic equations by explicit and crank Nicolson
implicit scheme method; Solution of hyperbolic equations.
LINEAR PROGRAMMING
UNIT V Linear programming
linear programming - Basic concepts; -problem formulation, graphical method,
canonical and standard forms of LPP simplex method, Artificial variables techniques- M
method, Transportation problems: Balanced transportation problem-North-West corner
rule, Least cost method, Vogel’s approximation method and MODI method.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Elementary Numerical Analysis – an algorithmic approach by Samuel D. Conte
and Carl De Boor (2006); 3rd edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Elementary Numerical Analysis by Dr. B.S.Grewal, 4th edition, Publisher: Khanna
Publishers
3. Operations Research: Theory and Applications by Kanthi Swaroop, 4th edition,
Macmillan Publishers India Ltd.
REFERENCES
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher:
John Wiley and Sons.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher:
Cengage Learning
50
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(PHY1103) ADVANCED ENGINEERING PHYSICS
Pre-requisites: Intermediate Physics
Course Objectives
 To learn basic concepts that lead to the development of Quantum Mechanics.
 To study behavior of electrons in metals.
 To describe the principles of conduction of charges in semiconductor.
 To learn the classification and behavior of magnetic materials and super
conductors.
 To study dielectric properties of material.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Distinguish fermions and bosons, recognize wave nature of particles and one
dimensional behavior of a particle quantum mechanically.
 Illustrate periodic motion of electrons in solids that leads to classification of
solids into conductors, semiconductors and non conductors.
 Estimate the concentration of charge carriers in semiconductors and realize the
importance of principle of in P-n junction which is the fundamental for many
semiconductor devices.
 Distinguish magnetic materials, especially ferrites and realize the importance of
super conducting materials.
 Understand the dielectric behavior of materials under application of electric
fields.
UNIT I
SEMICONDUCTOR PHYSICS:
Fermi level in Intrinsic and Extrinsic semiconductors - Intrinsic semiconductor and
carrier concentration – Extrinsic semiconductor and carrier concentration – Equation of
continuity – Direct and indirect band gap semiconductors - Hall Effect.
51
PHYSICS OF SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES:
Formation of p-n junction – open circuit p-n junction – Energy diagram of diode – i/v
characteristics of p-n junction diode – p-n diode as a rectifier – Diode equation –
Introduction to LED, BJT and FET.
UNIT II
CRYSTAL STRUCTURES:
Space lattice – Unit cell – Lattice parameter – Crystal systems – Bravais lattices
Atomic radius – Co-ordination number - Structures and Packing fractions of Simple
Cubic – Body Centered Cubic – Face Centered Cubic crystals – Hexagonal closed
packed crystals - Structures of diamond, NaCl.
BONDING IN SOLIDS
Force and energy between two approaching atoms, primary and secondary bonds,
binding energy and cohesive energy, Madelung constant, cohesive energy and
Madelung constant for NaCl crystal
UNIT III
DIRECTIONS, PLANES AND X-RD:
Miller Indices for Crystal planes and directions – Inter planar spacing of orthogonal
crystal systems –Diffraction of X-rays by crystal planes and Bragg’s law– Laue method
– Powder method – Applications of X-ray diffraction
DEFECTS IN SOLIDS:
Imperfections in crystals – Point defects (Vacancies, Interstitial and Impurities)
Schottky and Frenkel defects – (with mathematical treatment)- Line imperfections –
Edge and Screw dislocation – Burger vector – Surface defects and volume defects
(Qualitative Treatment).
UNIT IV
MAGNETIC PROPERTIES OF MATERIALS:
Permeability, Field intensity, magnetic field induction, Magnetization and Magnetic
susceptibility – Origin of magnetic moment, Bohr magneton – Classification of
magnetic materials (Dia, Para and Ferro)- Domain theory of ferromagnetism,
Hysteresis curve – Soft and Hard magnetic materials – Ferrites and their applications.
UNIT V
DIELECTRIC PROPERTIES:
Electric dipole, Dipole moment, Dielectric constant, Electronic, Ionic and Orientation
Polarization – Calculation of Polarizibilities – Internal fields – Claussius – Mossotti
equation –Piezo and Ferro electricity
SUPERCONDUCTORS
Experimental survey and superconductivity phenomenon, – Meissner effect – Critical
fields and Persistent currents, Type I and Type II superconductors - London equations-
flux quantization-BCS Theory- Josephson Effect, Applications of Superconductors.
TEXT BOOKS
52
1. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel , Publishers: John Wiley
& Sons
2. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd
3. Electronic Devices and circuits by Milliman and Halkias
References
1. Solid State Physics by A.J.Dekker; Macmillan Publishers India Ltd.
2. Engineering Physics by Dr M Chandra Shekar and Dr P. Appala Naidu, VGS
Book links.
3. Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
4. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
5. Engineering Physics by M.R.Srinivasan, New Age Publishers
6. Solid State Physics by M.A. Wahab.
53
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(CHE1101) ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
Prerequisite: General Chemistry
Course Objectives
 Understand electrochemistry which deals with the utilization of electrical energy
of an external source for bringing about a physical or chemical change.
 Knowledge of “Corrosion engineering education” and Usage of polymers in
modern world as an integral part of every human’s life.
 Knowledge of purification techniques and various applications of soft water in
industries.
 Usage of nano-materials as emerging scientific components with amazing
potential applications in various fields.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Visualize the chemical applications of electricity.
 Prevention of corrosion of metals and applications of polymers from domestic
articles to sophisticated scientific and medical instruments.
 Benefits of treated water as source in steam generation and other fields like
production of steel, paper, textiles, atomic energy etc.
 The applicability and greater efficiency of using a material at nanoscale in
different engineering fields.
UNIT I
Electrochemical cells and batteries
Conductance-factors effecting conductance, conductometric titrations; cells: types of
cells, cell representation, electrode potential; Standard electrode potential;
Electrochemical series; Nernst equation; Reference electrodes – hydrogen, calomel
electrode; Ion selective electrodes (glass electrode & flouride electrode); Numerical
problems.
Batteries
Primary and secondary cells (lead-acid cell; Ni-Cd cell; lithium cells); Applications of
batteries; Fuel cells – methanol – oxygen fuel cells, advantages of fuel cells; Solar cells
- principle, and applications.
54
UNIT II
Corrosion and its control
Introduction; Causes and effects of corrosion; Different types of corrosion; Theories of
corrosion – chemical, electrochemical corrosion (reactions); Factors affecting corrosion
– nature of metal (galvanic series; over voltage; purity of metal; nature of oxide film;
nature of corrosion product), and nature of environment (effect of temperature; effect
of pH; humidity; effect of oxidant).
Corrosion control methods – cathodic protection, sacrificial anode, and impressed
current cathode;
Surface coatings – methods of application on metals (hot dipping; galvanizing; tinning;
cladding; electroplating), and organic surface coatings (paints - constituents and
functions).
UNIT III
III a) Polymers
Introduction; Types of polymerization; Plastics - thermoplastic resins, and thermoset
resins; Compounding & fabrication of plastics; Preparation, properties, and engineering
applications of polyethylene, PVC, PS, Teflon, bakelite, nylon.
III b) Rubber
Natural rubber- processing, vulcanization; Elastomers (Buna-s; Butyl rubber; Thiokol
rubbers); Fiber reinforced plastics (FRP) and their applications.
UNIT IV
Water
Introduction; Hardness - causes, expression of hardness, units, types of hardness,
estimation of temporary & permanent hardness of water, and numerical problems;
Boiler troubles – scale & sludge formation, caustic embrittlement, corrosion, priming &
foaming; Softening of water (Internal & external treatment - lime soda, zeolite, ion
exchange process, and numerical problems); Reverse osmosis and Electro dialysis
(desalination processes).
UNIT V
Nanomaterials
Introduction; Preparation and applications of nanomaterials with special reference to
carbon nanotubes.
Insulators
Classification of insulators; characteristics of thermal & electrical insulators and their
applications; Superconductors - Nb-Sn alloy, YBa Cu O ; Applications of
2 3 7-x
superconductors.
55
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna Cherukuri; Publisher:
VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain & Monica Jain, Publisher: Dhanpatrai
3. Publishing Company.
REFERENCES
1. Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara & Mukkanti; Publisher: S.Chand & Co.
2. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna
3. Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, Sulochana
Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
4. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi ,Cengage
Learning Publications.
56
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(ITD1102) DATA STRUCTURES
Prerequisites: 'C' Programming language
Course Objectives
 List various linear data structures and non linear data structures.
 Understand various operations of linear data structures and non linear data
structures
 List the application of linear data structures.
 Identify basic and advanced sorting and searching techniques
Course Outcomes
After the completion of the course students will be able to
 Explore and analyze the working of linear data structures like list, stack and
variations of queue in both static and dynamic implementation.
 Relate and demonstrate the application of linear data structures.
Illustrate and Implement basic non linear data structures like trees, graphs and their
operations
UNIT I
Data Structures – Introduction to Data Structures, abstract data types, Linear list –
singly linked list implementation, insertion, deletion and searching operations on linear
list, circular linked list implementation, Double linked list implementation, insertion,
deletion and searching operations. Applications of linked lists.
UNIT II
Stacks-Operations, array and linked representations of stacks, stack applications-infix
to postfix conversion, postfix expression evaluation, recursion implementation.
UNIT III
Queues-operations, array and linked representations. Circular Queue operations,
Dequeues, applications of queue.
UNIT IV
Trees – Definitions, Binary tree representation, Binary search tree, binary tree
traversals.
Graphs – Definitions, Graph representations, Graph traversals
UNIT V
Searching and Sorting – Big O Notation, Sorting- selection sort, bubble sort, insertion
sort, quick sort, merge sort,
57
Searching-linear and binary search methods.
TEXT BOOKS
1. C Programming & Data Structures, B.A.Forouzan and R.F. Gilberg, Third
Edition, Cengage Learning.
2. Data Structures Using C (Paperback) by Aaron M. Tenenbaum
REFERENCES
1. C& Data structures – P. Padmanabham, Third Edition, B.S. Publications.
2. Data Structures using C – A.M.Tanenbaum, Y.Langsam, and M.J.
Augenstein, Pearson Education / PHI
3. C Programming & Data Structures, E. Balagurusamy, TMH.
4. C Programming & Data Structures, P. Dey, M Ghosh R Thereja, Oxford
University Press
5. C& Data structures – E V Prasad and N B Venkateswarlu, S. Chand&Co.
58
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(ECE1101) ELECTRONIC DEVICES AND CIRCUITS
Pre-requisites: Semiconductor physics
Course Objectives
 To learn principle of operation, construction and characteristics of various
electronic devices.
 To study operation and characteristics of Rectifiers with filters.
 To understand the analysis of small signal low frequency amplifiers.
 To provide the concepts involved in design of electronic Circuits.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Understand the operation and characteristics of various electronic devices.
 Develop few applications of devices.
 Understand the importance of biasing and stabilization.
 Analyze small signal model for BJTand FETamplifiers
UNIT I
p-n Junction Diode and Applications : Review of Semi Conductor Materials, Theory
of p-n Junction, p-n Junction as a Diode, Diode Equation, Volt-Ampere Characteristics,
Temperature dependence of V-I characteristic, Ideal and Practical Diode Equivalent
Circuits, Static and Dynamic Resistance levels , Transition and Diffusion Capacitances.
The p-n diode as a rectifier, Half wave Rectifier, Full wave rectifier, Bridge Rectifier,
Harmonic components in a Rectifier Circuit, Inductor filters, Capacitor filters, L- Section
Filters, - section filters, Comparison of Regulation Characteristics of different Filters,
Breakdown Mechanisms in Semi Conductor Diodes, Zener Diode Characteristics,
Shunt Voltage Regulation using Zener Diode.
UNIT II
Transistors, Biasing and Stabilization : The Bipolar Junction Transistor(BJT),
Transistor Current Components, Transistor Construction, BJT Operation, Common
Base, Common Emitter and Common Collector Configurations, Limits of Operation,
Transistor as an Amplifier, BJT Specifications, Principle of series voltage regulators.
The DC and AC Load lines, Quiescent operating Point, Need for Biasing, Fixed Bias,
Collector Feedback Bias, Emitter Feedback Bias, Collector-Emitter Feedback Bias,
Voltage Divider Bias, Bias Stability, Stabilization Factors, Stabilization against
59
variations in V β and I . Bias Compensation using Diodes, Thermistors and
BE, 1 CO
Sensistors, Thermal Runway, Thermal Stability.
UNIT III
Small signal low frequency BJT Amplifiers: Small signal low frequency transistor
amplifier circuits: h-parameter representation of a transistor, Analysis of single stage
transistor amplifiers CE, CC, CB configurations using h-parameters: voltage gain,
current gain, Input impedance and Output impedance. Comparison of CB, CE, CC
configurations in terms of A, R, A , R .
I i V O
UNIT IV
FET, Biasing and Amplifiers : Construction and operation of Junction Field Effect
Transistor (JFET), Volt-Ampere characteristics - Drain and transfer Characteristics,
FET as Voltage Variable Resistor, Biasing FET, The JFET Small Signal Model, FET
Common Source Amplifier, Common Drain Amplifier, Construction and operation of
MOSFET , MOSFET Characteristics in Enhancement and Depletion modes.
Comparison of BJT and FET amplifiers.
UNIT V
Special Purpose Electronic Devices : Principle of Operation and Characteristics of
Tunnel Diode (with the help of Energy Band Diagram), Varactor Diode and schotky
barrier diode. Principle of Operation and Characteristics of UJT, UJT Relaxation
Oscillator. Principle of Operation of SCR, Schockley diode Diac and Triac. Principle of
Operation of Semiconductor Photo Diode, PIN Diod, Photo Transistor ,LED and LCD.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Electronic Devices and Circuits – J.Millman, C.C.Halkias, and Satyabratha Jit,
Tata McGraw Hill, 2nd Edition, 2007.
2. Electronic Devices and Circuits – R.L. Boylestad and Louis Nashelsky,
Pearson/Prentice Hall, 11th Edition, 2006.
3. Electronic Devices and Circuits – David A Bell, Oxford University Press, 5th
edition (2008)
REFERENCES
1. Integrated Electronics - J.Millman and Christos.C.Halkias, and Satyabratha, Jit
Tata McGraw Hill, 2nd Edition,
2008.
2. Electronic Devices and Circuits – T.F. Bogart Jr., J.S.Beasley and G.Rico,
Pearson Education, 6th Edition, 2004.
3. Electronic Devices and Circuits- S. S Salivahanan, N. Sursh Kumar, A. Vallava
Raju,2nd Edition., TMH, 2010.
60
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE – II Sem
L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ITD1202) DATA STRUCTURES LABORATORY
WEEK1
1. Write a program for creation, Search and Traversal of Single Linked List
2. Write a program to perform insertion and deletion operations in Single Linked
List
3. Write a program to merge two single linked lists
WEEK2
1. Write a program for creation, Search and Traversal of Circular Linked List
2. Write a program to perform insertion and deletion operations in Circular
Linked List
WEEK 3
1. Write a program for creation, Search and Traversal of Double Linked List
2. Write a program to perform insertion and deletion operations in Double
Linked List
WEEK 4
1. Write a program to implement stack using Arrays
2. Write a program to implement stack using Linked List
WEEK 5
1. Write a program to convert infix expression to postfix expression using stack
2. Write a program to evaluate postfix expression
WEEK 6
1. Programs using recursion
2. Write a program to convert infix expression to prefix expression using stack
WEEK 7
1. Write a program to implement Linear queue using Array
2. Write a program to implement Linear queue using Linked List
WEEK 8
1. Write a program to implement insertions and deletions in a circular Queue
2. Write a program to perform search and count operations in a circular queue
WEEK 9
1. Write a program to implement insertions and deletions in a Dequeue
2. Write a program to perform search and count operations in Dequeue
61
WEEK 10: Midterm Exam
WEEK 11
1. Write a program to implement Linear search
2. Write a program to implement Binary Search
WEEK 12
1. Write a program to implement Selection sort
2. Write a program to implement Bubble sort
3. Write a program to implement Insertion sort
WEEK 13
1. Write a program to implement Merge sort
2. Write a program to implement Quick sort
WEEK 14
1. Implementation of a binary tree representation using Arrays
2. Write a program to implement tree traversals.
3. WEEK 15
1. Implementation of a Graph representation using Adjacency Matrix
2. Write a program to implement graph traversals.
WEEK 16: Final Internal Lab Exam
62
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(EPC1201) ENGINEERING PHYSICS AND ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
LABORATORY
Course Objectives
 To practically learn interaction of light with matter through physical phenomena
like
interference, diffraction and dispersion.
 To understand the periodic motion and formation of standing waves and to
know the characteristics of the capacitors and resistors.
 To compare the experimental results with the class room learning.
.
Course Outcomes
After the completion of the course students will be able to
 Demonstrate the optical phenomena with formation of Newton Rings, and
formation of spectra with a grating and a prism.
 Illustrate periodic motion by measuring rigidity modulus of a material and
formation of standing waves by Melde’s apparatus and also discharging of a
capacitor.
 Correlate the experimental results with the class room learning
Any Eight Experiments from the following
1. Dispersive Power of the material of a Prism using Spectrometer
2. Diffraction Grating (both with Laser and non-laser source)
3. Single Slit with laser light
4. Newton’s Rings
5. Finding thickness of a thin wire or sheet by forming a wedgeshaped film
6. Energy gap of a Semiconductor material
7. Torsional Pendulum Expt. to determine the rigidity modulus of material of a
wire
8. Melde’s experiment
9. Sonometer Experiment
10. Numerical Aperture and Acceptance angle of an optical fiber cable
11. Stewart Gee’s experiment
63
12. Characteristics of LED.
13. Photo cell/ Solar Cell
14. AC frequency of sonometer method.
15. Attenuation and bending losses in opptical fiber.
Book: Essential Practical Lab Manual of Physics - P. Raghavendra Rao
ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
1. Titrimetry
a) Estimation of hardness of water by EDTA method.
2. Instrumental methods
(i). Conductometry
Conductometric titration of strong acid Vs Strong base
(ii). Colorimetry
A. Estimation of copper by colorimetric method
(iii). Potentiometry
A. Titration of strong acid Vs Strong base by potentiometry
3. Physical properties
a) Determination of viscosity of sample oil by Redwood viscometer.
4. Preparation of organic compounds
a) Preparation of aspirin or Thiokol rubber
TEXT BOOKS
1. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry - S.K.Bhasin and Sudha
Rani,Dhanpat Rai Publishing Company.
2. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry - Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna
Cherukuri, VGS Book Links, Vijayawada.
64
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ECE1201) ELECTRONIC DEVICES AND CIRCUITS LABORATORY
Pre-requisites: Semiconductor physics, Electronic Devices and Circuits
Concepts
Course Objectives
 To identify various components and testing of active devices.
 To study and operation of multimeters, function generators ,regulated power
supplies and CRO
 To know the characteristics of various active devices.
 To study frequency response Amplifier.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Calculate various parameters of devices from characteristics.
 Use of devices in real time applications.
 Calculate h-parameters of BJT under various configurations.
Compute frequency response of various amplifiers
Part A: (Only for viva-voce Examination)
ELECTRONIC WORKSHOP PRACTICE(in 3 lab sessions):
1. Identification, Specification, testing of R,L,C components (color codes),
Potentiometers (SPDT, DPDT, and DIP),
Coils, Gang Condensers, Relays, Bread Board, PCB’s
1. Identification, Specification, testing of Active devices : Diodes, BJT, Low power
JFET’s, MOSFET’s, Power Transistors, LED’s, LCD’s, SCR, UJT.
2. Study and operation of :
 Multimeters (Analog and Digital)
 Function Generator
 Regulated Power Supplies
 CRO
Part B: (For Laboratory Examination – Minimum of 10 experiments)
1. Forward and Reverse Bias V-I characteristics of PN junction Diode.
2. Zener diode V-I characteristics and Zener diode as voltage regulator.
3. Half Wave, and Full wave with and without filters.
4. Characteristics of a BJT under CE configuration and calculation of h-parameters.
65
5. Characteristics of a BJT under CC configuration and calculation of h-parameters.
6. Characteristics of a BJT under CB configuration and calculation of h-parameters.
7. FET characteristics under CS configuration.
8. Frequency response of CE Amplifier.
9. Frequency response of CC Amplifier.
10. Frequency response of CS FET Amplifier.
11. SCR characteristics.
12. UJT characteristics and Relaxation Oscillator.
66
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II YEAR I SEM L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(MTH1105) APPLIED MATHEMATICS
(SPECIAL FUNCTIONS AND COMPLEX ANALYSIS)
Pre-requisites: Calculus
Course Objectives
 Identify the difference of power series and Frobenius method and
 Obtain the solutions of Bessel and Legender equations.
 Distinguish Cauchy’s integral theorem and Cauchy’s integral formula.
 Apply Taylor’s Series and Laurent series to expand the function.
 Understand the idea of a conformal mapping
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Solve Second order D.E’s with variable coefficients.
 Use the Cauchy-Riemann equations to obtain the derivative of complex
functions
 Use residues to evaluate contour integrals
 Calculate the image of the given curve under the given transformation.
SPECIAL FUNCTIONS
UNIT I
Special functions
Series solutions of second order Ordinary Differential Equations , Regular point ,
Regular singular point, Frobineous Method ,Bessel functions properties. Recurrence
relations, Orthogonally. Legendre polynomials , Properties, Rodrigue’s formula,
Recurrence relations and Orthogonal properties.
COMPLEX ANALYSIS
UNIT II
Functions of a complex variable: Functions of a complex variable
Continuity,Differentiability, Analyticity, Properties, Cauchy-Riemann equations in
Cartesian and polar coordinates. Harmonic and conjugate harmonic functions,Milne –
Thompson method.
67
UNIT III
Elementary functions and Integration of complex function
Exponential, trigonometric, hyperbolic functions and their properties.
zc
and Logz,
principal value. Line integral, evaluation along a path and by indefinite integration.
Cauchy’s integral theorem ,Cauchy’s integral formula.
UNIT IV
Power series and Residues
Radius of convergence , Expansion in Taylor’s series, Maclaurin’s series and Laurent
series. Singular point, Isolated singular point, pole of order m , essential singularity.
Residues – Evaluation of residue by formula and by Laurent Series, Residue theorem,
Evaluation of Improper real integrals .
UNIT V
Conformal mapping
Transformation ofez , lnz, zn, (n positive integer), Sin z, cos z, z + a/z. Basic
transformations Translation, rotation, inversion. Bilinear transformation , fixed point ,
cross ratio , properties , invariance of circles , determination of bilinear transformation
mapping three given points.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – B. S. Grewal
2. Complex Variables & Its Applications- Churchill and Brown, (1996), International
Edition, McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES
1. Advance Engineering Mathematics - Peter O’Neil,(2000),5th Edition, Cengage
Learning
2. Schaum’s Outline Of Complex Variables - Murray.R.Spiegel, (2011), 2nd Edition,
Tata McGraw Hill.
68
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(ECE1102) PROBABILITY THEORY AND STOCHASTIC PROCESSES
Pre-requisites: Basics of Mathematical and Probability Concepts
Course Objectives
 To describe and interpret the basic concepts of probability and stochastic
processes.
 To Describe and interpret the discrete time and continuous time stochastic
processes.
 To learn spectrum of Random process
 To learn noise sources and their characteristics
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Apply the concepts of probability to experiments that have Random outcomes
and to recognize a random variable of single, multiple variables and its
properties
 Apply the concepts of statistical estimations to the random variables
 Characterize the stochastic process and its response applying to linear systems
 Estimate and eliminate noise in communication systems
UNIT I
Overview of Probability Theory: Definitions, Scope and history, sets, sample space and
events, Axioms of Probability, Discrete, Continuous and Conditional Probabilities,
Independence, Total probability, Baye’s Rule and Applications.
Random Variables: Definition of Random Variable, classification of Random Variables,
Probability mass function, CDF and PDF of Random Variables and their properties
(Single and Multiple Random variables), Conditional distribution and densities,
properties.
Functions of a Random variables, Functions of two random variables, Sum of Two
Independent Random variables. Some Special Random variables: Binomial, Poisson,
Uniform, Gaussian, Exponential, Rayleigh.
UNIT II
Operations on Single and Multiple Random Variables: Mean, Variance, Skew and
Moments of Random Variables- Raw and Central Moments, Joint Moments, Marginal
69
distribution and density functions. Characteristic Function, Moment Generating
Function, Operations on distribution and density functions of special Random variables.
UNIT III
Random Processes: Concept and classification of Random Process; Probabilistic
structure of a random process; Concept of Stationary Random Process, Wide Sense
Stationary, Time Averages, Ergodicity, Auto Correlation, Cross Correlation and
Covariance of Random Processes.
UNIT IV
Spectral Characteristics of Random Process: Power Spectrum-Properties, Relation
between PSD and Autocorrelation function of a Random Process, Cross spectral
Density and its relation with Cross Correlation function.
Random signal Response of Linear Systems: System Response-Convolution, Mean
and Mean-squared value of system Response, autocorrelation Function of Response,
Cross-Correlation Functions of input and output, Spectral Characteristics of System
Response; Power Density Spectrum of Response, Cross Power Density Spectrums of
Input and Output.
UNIT V
System Noise: Mathematical Modeling of Various system Noise sources, White Noise
and colored noise, Effective Noise Temperature, Noise Figure, Average Noise Figure
of Cascaded networks.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Probability, Random Variables and Random Signal Principles - Peyton Z Peebles
4th Edidtion,TMH, 2001.
2. Probability, Random Variables and Stochastic Processes- Athanasios Papoulis
and S. Unnikrishnan Pillai,4th Edition, TMH
3. Principles of Communication Systems – H.Taub, Donald L. Schiling, Goutham
Saha, 3rd Edition,TMH,2007.
REFERENCES
1. Theory of probability and stochastic Processes – pradip Kumar Gosh University
press.
2. Probability and Random processes with application to signal processing – Henry
Stark and John W, Woods, 3rd
Edition, PE.
3. Probability Methods of Signal and System Analysis – George R.Cooper, Clave
D.Mc Cillem, 3rd Edition,Oxford, 1999.
4. Statistical Theory of communication – S.P.Eugene Xavier, New age Publications,
1997.
70
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(EIE1101) SIGNALS AND SYSTEMS
Pre-requisites: Basics of mathematical concepts
Course Objectives
 To understand various fundamental characteristics of signals and systems.
 To study the importance of transform domain.
 To analyze and design various systems.
 To study the effects of sampling.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Design solutions for complex input signals
 Analyze statistical parameters of a given signal.
 Apply the knowledge in modeling of LTI systems
 Create new systems
UNIT I
Representation of Signals: Continuous signals, Classification of Signals – Periodic
and aperiodic, even and odd, energy and power signals, deterministic and random
signals, complex exponential and sinusoidal signals. Concepts of Impulse function,
Unit step function, Signum function. Various operations on Signals.
Signal Analysis : Analogy between vectors and signals, Orthogonal signal space,
Signal approximation using orthogonal functions, Mean square error, Closed or
complete set of orthogonal functions, Orthogonality in complex functions
UNIT II
Fourier Series Representation of Periodic Signals : Representation of Fourier
series, Continuous time periodic signals, properties of Fourier series, Dirichlet’s
conditions, Trigonometric Fourier series and Exponential Fourier series, Complex
Fourier spectrum, Gibb’s Phenomenon.
Fourier Transforms : Deriving Fourier transform from Fourier series, Fourier transform
of arbitrary signals, Fourier transform of standard signals, Fourier transform of periodic
signals, properties of Fourier transforms, Fourier transforms involving impulse function
and Signum function.
71
UNIT III
Laplace Transforms: Concept of region of convergence (ROC) for Laplace
transforms. Properties of ROC. Relation between Laplace Transforms and Fourier
transform of a signal. Introduction to Hilbert Transform.
Signal Transmission through Linear Systems: Classification of Continuous time and
discrete time Systems, impulse response, Response of a linear system, Transfer
function of a LTI system. Filter characteristics of linear systems. Distortion less
transmission through a system, Signal bandwidth, system bandwidth, Ideal LPF, HPF
and BPF characteristics, Causality and Paley -Wiener criterion for physical realization,
relationship between bandwidth and rise time.
UNIT IV
Convolution and Correlation of Signals : Concept of convolution in time domain and
frequency domain, Graphical representation of convolution, Properties of Convolution,
Concepts of correlation, properties of correlation. Relation between convolution and
correlation, Detection of periodic signals in the presence of noise by correlation,
Extraction of signal from noise by filtering.
UNIT V
Representation of discrete time signals. Classification of Signals, Properties of
discrete time complex exponential signals
Sampling Theorem: Representation of continuous time signals by its samples -
Sampling theorem – Reconstruction of a Signal from its samples, aliasing – discrete
time processing of continuous time signals, sampling of band pass signals.
Z –Transforms: Basic principles of z-transform, region of convergence, properties of
ROC, Properties of z-transform ,Poles and Zeros. Inverse z-transform using Contour
integration, Residue Theorem, Power Series expansion and Partial fraction expansion.
Distinction among Fourier transform, Laplace Transform and Z - Transforms.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Signals, Systems and Communications - B.P. Lathi, BS Publications, 2009.
2. Signals and Systems – Alan V.Oppenheim, Alan S.Willsky and S.Hamid
Nawab,2nd Edition, PHI.
REFERENCES
1. Signals and Systems- A.Anand Kumar, 2nd Edition, PHI ,2012
2. Signals and Systems -Simon Haykin and Barry Van Veen, 2nd Edition, John
Wiley.
3. Signals and Systems- Cengage Learning, Narayana Iyer, 2011.
4. Signals, Systems and Transforms –C.L.Philips,J.M Parr and Eve A. Riskin,3rd
Edition, Pearson, 2004 .
5. Signals and Systems Schaum’s Outlines - HWEI P. HSU , Tata Mc Graw Hill,
2004.
72
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(EEE1154) PRINCIPLES OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
Pre-requisites: Circuit Theory, Mathematics
Course Objectives
 To analyze transient response of circuits with dc excitation
 To understand two port network parameters, filters and attenuators
 To know about performance of DC machines
 To understand the operation of transformers and AC machines
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Analyze transient response of circuits
 Evaluate two port parameters and design simple filters
 Appreciate the working of DC machines
 Understand the operation of transformers and AC machines
Unit I
Transient Analysis (First and Second Order Circuits) : Transient Response of RL,
RC and RLC Circuits for DC excitations, Initial Conditions, Solution using Differential
Equations approach and Laplace Transform Method.0
Unit II
Two Port Networks :Impedance Parameters, Admittance Parameters, Hybrid
Parameters, Transmission (ABCD) Parameters, Conversion of one Parameter to
another, Conditions for Reciprocity and Symmetry, Interconnection of Two Port
networks in Series, Parallel and Cascaded configurations, Image Parameters,
Illustrative problems.
Unit III
Filters and Symmetrical Attenuators : Classification of Filters, Classification of Pass
band and Stop band, Characteristic Impedance in the Pass and Stop Bands, Constant-
k and m-derived filters-Low Pass Filter and High Pass Filters (both qualitative and
qunatitaive treatment); Band Pass filter and Band Elimination filters (qunatitaive
treatment only), Illustrative Problems. Symmetrical Attenuators – T-Type Attenuator, p-
Type Attenuator, Bridged T-type Attenuator, Lattice Attenuator.
73
Unit IV- DC Machines
DC Generators: Principles of Operation of DC Machine, construction, EMF equation,
Types of Generators, Magnetization, Internal and external Characteristics of DC
Generators.
DC Motors : DC Motors, Types of Dc Motors, Characteristics of Dc Motors, Losses
and Efficiency, Swinburne’s Test, Speed Control of Dc Shunt Motor- Flux and Armature
Voltage control methods.
Unit V Transformers and AC Machines
Transformers and Their Performance : Principle of Operation of Single Phase
transformer, Types, Constructional Features, Phasor Diagram on No Load and Load,
Equivalent Circuit, Losses, Efficiency and Regulation of Transformer, OC and SC
Tests, Predetermination of Efficiency and Regulation, Simple Problems.
AC Machines
Three Phase Induction Motor : Principle of operation of three phase induction
motors- Slip ring and Squirrel cage motors –Slip_Torque characteristics.
Alternators: Principle of operation –Types - EMF Equation- Predetermination of
regulation by Synchronous Impedance Method- OC and SC tests.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Principles of Electrical Engineering- A.Sudhakar, Shyammohan S.Palli, TMH
publications
2. Introduction to Electrical Engineering – M.S.Naidu and S. Kamakshaiah, TMH
publications.
3. Network analysis and Synthesis- C L Wadhwa, New Age International
Publishers.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Networks, Lines, and Fields – John.D.Ryder, PHI publications.
2. Engineering Circuit Analysis – W.H.Hayt and J.E Kemmerly and S.M.Durbin,
TMH publications.
3. Circuit Theory by Chakrabarti, Dhanpat Rai and Co.
4. Network Analysis – N.C.Jagan and C.Lakshmi Narayana, BS publications.
5. Network Analysis – A.Sudhakar, Shyammohan S.Palli, TMH publications.
74
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech ECE – I sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(ECE1103) ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT ANALYSIS
Pre-requisites: Electronic Devices and Circuits
Course Objectives
 To explain the operation, design and Analysis of multistage amplifiersusing
BJT and MOSFET.
 Design high frequency BJT amplifiers and analysis of MOS amplifiers.
 Understand the concepts of feedback amplifiers and Oscillators
 Design large signal and tuned amplifiers.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Apply the knowledge of BJTs and MOSFETs to design practical amplifier
circuits.
 Design electronic sub systems such as feedback amplifiers, oscillators.
 Design various power amplifiers to meet the required specifications.
 Apply the knowledge of Tuned amplifiers to design practical amplifier circuits.
UNIT I
Multistage Amplifiers
Introduction, Methods of inter-stage coupling, n-stage cascaded amplifier, Equivalent
circuits, Miller’s Theorem, Frequency effects, Amplifier analysis, High input resistance
Transistor Circuits, Darlington Pair, CE- CC amplifier, Cascode amplifier, Two-stage
RC-coupled JFET amplifier (in Common Source configuration), Difference Amplifier.
UNIT II
BJT Frequency Response of Amplifiers
Frequency response of BJT amplifier, Analysis at low and high frequencies, Effect of
coupling and bypass capacitors, Hybrid-π Common Emitter transistor model, CE short
circuit gain, CE current gain with resistive load, Single-stage CE transistor amplifier
response, Gain-Bandwidth Product, Emitter follower at higher frequencies.
MOS Amplifiers
Basic Concepts, MOS Small signal Model, Common source amplifier with Resistive
load, Diode connected load, and current source load, Source follower, Common Gate
stage Cascode and Folded Cascode Amplifier and their frequency response.
75
UNIT III
Feedback Amplifiers and Oscillators
Concept of feedback, Classification of feedback amplifiers, general characteristics of
negative feedback amplifiers, Effect of feedback on amplifier characteristics, voltage
series, voltage shunt, current series and current shunt feedback configurations,
Illustrative problems.
Classification of oscillators, Conditions for oscillations, RC phase shift oscillator, Wien
bridge oscillator, Generalized analysis of LC oscillators – Hartley and Colpitts
oscillators, Piezoelectric crystal oscillator, Stability of oscillators.
UNIT IV
Power Amplifiers
Classification of power amplifiers, Class A large-signal amplifiers, Series-fed and
transformer-coupled Class A audio power amplifier, Efficiency of Class A amplifier ,
Class B amplifier, Transformer-coupled Class B push-pull amplifier, Complementary-
symmetry Class B push-pull amplifier, Efficiency of Class B amplifier, Distortion in
power amplifiers, Thermal stability and Heat sinks
UNIT V
Tuned Amplifiers
Introduction, Small signal single tuned amplifiers, Double-tuned amplifiers , Effect of
cascading single and double tuned amplifiers on bandwidth, Stagger-tuned amplifiers,
Class-C tuned amplifiers. Power supply requirements, Introduction and classification of
Power Supplies.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Integrated Electronics - Jacob Millman and Christos C. Halkias, , Tata
McGraw-Hill Education, 2008.
2. Electronic Circuit Analysis - S. Salivahanan, N. Suresh Kumar, , Tata
McGraw-Hill Education, 2nd edition, 2012.
3. Design of Analog CMOS Integrated Circuits - Behzad Razavi, Tata
McGraw-Hill Education , 2008.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Electronic Devices and Circuit Theory - Robert L.Boysted , Louis
Nashelisky, Pearson Education , 9th edition, 2008. (ISBN: 978-81-219-2450-4)
2. Introductory Electronic Devices and Circuits, Robert T. Paynter, Pearson
Education, 7th edition, 2010.
3. Micro Electronic Circuits – Sedra and Smith, Oxford University Press, 5th
edition, 2009.
76
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
2 0 0
(NCC1101) HUMAN VALUES & PROFESSIONAL ETHICS
Course Description
Objectives
To develop the ability to distinguish between what is of value and what is superficial in
life.
To develop the ability to face difficult situations in life boldly and resolve them
confidently.
To enable students to progress from discrimination to commitment.
To Encourage the students to understand values in life.
Syllabus
1. Self-confidence
2. Peer Pressure-Irregular life style
3. The Power of Self- determination
4. Human relationship—trust and respect- resolving conflict
5. Anger-A sign of helplessness
6. Interaction and ragging
7. Right Utilization of physical facilities
8. Unhappiness -Unfulfilled expectations
9. Setting goals- long term and short term goals-handling
responsibilities
10. Dealing with people while coordinating work
11. Coping with stress-Identifying one’s interests and strengths
12. Time Management-Planning and aligning with one’s goals
13. Skills and Values
14. The role of values in Society
Course Book
The resource material that has been prepared by IIIT can be used apart from material
that is available in the websites. Later text books can be identified for the facility of the
students.
Evaluation
This course would only have a pass/ fail grade. Participation in discussions,
submission of assignments and weekly reports and a final report will be used in
evaluation.
77
Outcome
At the end of the course the students would become sensitive towards human values.
They would understand commitment and responsibility. They would be able to bring
harmony in the society they live.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Mike Martin and Roland Schinzinger, “Ethics in Engineering”, McGraw -Hill,
New York 1996.
2. Govindarajan M, Natarajan S, Senthil Kumar V. S, “Engineering Ethics”,
Prentice Hall of India, New Delhi, 2004
REFERENCES
1. Charles D. Fleddermann, “Engineering Ethics”, Pearson Education / Prentice
Hall, New Jersey, 2004 (Indian Reprint now available).
2. Charles E Harris, Michael S. Protchard and Michael J Rabins, “Engineering
Ethics–Concepts and Cases”, Wadsworth Thompson Leatning, United States,
2000 (Indian Reprint now available)
3. John R Boatright, “Ethics and the Conduct of Business”, Pearson Education,
New Delhi, 2003.
4. Edmund G Seebauer and Robert L Barry, “Fundamentals of Ethics for
Scientists and Engineers”, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2001.
5. Naagarazan, R.S. ‘A Textbook on Professional Ethics and Human Values’
2006.
78
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ECE1202) BASIC SIMULATION LABORATORY
Pre-requisites: Basic concepts of Mathematics and Signal and systems
Course Objectives
 To learn basic Operations on Matrices
 To model generation of various signals
 To simulate operations on signals and systems.
 To simulate various random variables’ generation and processes
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Apply signal generation in different areas.
 Apply the knowledge of random variables and processes in fields of
communications.
 Analyze the systems for various properties.
 Create or design various systems and analyze sampling effects
1. Basic Operations on Matrices
2. Generation of various signals and sequences (Periodic and Aperiodic), such
as unit Impulse step, Square, Saw tooth, Triangular, Sinusoidal, Ramp, Sinc.
3. Operations on signals and sequences such as Addition, Multiplication,
Scaling, Shifting, Folding, Computation of Energy and Average Power.
4. Finding the Even and Odd parts of Signal / Sequence and Real and
imaginary parts of Signal.
5. Convolution between Signals and Sequences.
6. Auto Correlation and Cross Correlation between Signal of a given
Sequences.
7. Verification of Linearity and Time Invariance Properties of a given Continuous
/ Discrete System.
8. Computation of Unit sample, Unit step and sinusoidal responses of the given
LTI system and verifying its Physical realiazability and stability properties.
9. Gibbs Phenomenon.
10. Finding the Fourier Transform of a given signal and plotting its magnitude and
phase spectrum.
11. Waveform Synthesis using Laplace Transform.
79
12. Locating the Zeros and Poles and Plotting the Pole-Zero maps in S plane and
Z-Plane for the given transfer function.
13. Generation of Gaussian noise (Real and Complex), Computation of its mean,
M.S. Value and its Skew, Kurtosis and PSD, Probability Distribution Function.
14. Sampling theorem Verification.
15. Removal of noise by Autocorrelation / Cross correlation.
16. Extraction of Periodic Signal, masked by noise using Correlation.
17. Verification of Weiner – Khinchine Relations.
18. Checking a Random Process for Stationarity in Wide sense
80
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ECE1203) ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT ANALYSIS LABORATORY
Pre-requisites: Semiconductor physics, Electronic Devices and Circuits
Concepts
Course Objectives
 To identify various components and testing of active devices.
 To study and operation of multimeters, function generators ,regulated power
supplies and CRO
 To know the characteristics of various active devices.
 To study frequency response Amplifier.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Calculate various parameters of devices from characteristics.
 Use of devices in real time applications.
 Calculate h-parameters of BJT under various configurations.
 Compute frequency response of various amplifiers
Design and simulation of the following circuits using simulation software and
implementation through hardware.
1. Common Emitter Amplifier with & without emitter bypass capacitor.
2. Common source Amplifier.
3. Two stage RC coupled BJT Amplifier.
4. Darlington pair.
5. Current shunt and voltage series feedback amplifier.
6. Cascode amplifier.
7. Wien bridge Oscillator using transistors
8. RC phase shift Oscillator using transistors.
9. Hartley and colpitt’s Oscillator using transistors.
10. Class A power Amplifier (Transformer less and with transformer load).
11. Class B Complementary Symmetry Amplifier.
12. Class C power Amplifier.
13. MOS Amplifier.
81
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(EEE1252) ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING LABORATORY
Pre-requisites: Circuit Theory, Principles of Electrical Engineering
Course Objectives
 The theoretical concepts of KVL and KCL are verified experimentally
 The transient behavior of RLC networks are studied practically
 The network theorems are verified experimentally
 The performance and efficiency / regulation of electrical machines are
determined experimentally (under various operating conditions)
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Apply the network theorems in the domain applications
 Practically study the transient behavior of the RLC networks
 Find the applications of the electrical machines with the experimental
determination of the performance of the machines.
 Find the difference between Generator and Motor performance
characteristics
PART- A
1. Verification of KVL and KCL.
2. Series and Parallel Resonance – Timing, Resonant frequency, Bandwidth
and Q-factor determination for RLC network.
3. Time response of first order RC/RL network for periodic non-sinusoidal inputs
time constant and steady state error determination.
4. Two port network parameters –Z and Y-parameters
5. Two port network parameters – ABCD and h-parameters
6. Verification of Superposition and Reciprocity theorems.
7. Verification of maximum power transfer theorem. Verification on DC and AC
Excitation with resistive and Reactive loads.
8. Experimental determination of Thevenin’s and Norton’s equivalent circuits
and verification by direct test.
9. Constant –k Low Pass Filter and High Pass Filter- Design and Test.
82
PART- B
1. Magnetization characteristics of D.C Shunt generator, Determination of
critical field resistance.
2. Swinburne’s Test on Dc shunt machine. (Predetermination of efficiency of a
given Dc Shunt machine working as motor and generator)
3. Brake test on DC shunt motor. Determination of performance characteristics.
4. OC and Sc tests on Single-phase transformer (Predetermination of efficiency
and regulation at given power factors and determination of equivalent circuit).
5. Load Test on single Phase Transformer.
6. Speed Control of DC shunt Motor – flux and armature voltage control
methods.
Note: Any 12 of the above experiments 6 from each part to be
conducted.
83
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(EEE1105) CONTROL SYSTEMS
Pre-requisites: Basic concepts of Mathematics and Signal concepts
Course Objectives
 To understand the different ways of system representations such as Transfer
function representation and state space representations and should able to
assess the system dynamic response
 To assess the system performance using time domain analysis and should know
how to improve it
 To assess the system performance using frequency domain analysis and should
know how to improve it
 To design various controllers and compensators to improve system performance
Course outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 know how to improve the system performance by selecting a suitable controller
and/or compensator for a specific application
 Apply various time domain and frequency domain techniques to assess the
system performance
 Apply various control strategies to different applications (example: Power
systems, electrical drives etc…)
 Test system Controllability and Observability using state space representation
and applications of state space representation to various systems.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Concepts of Control Systems- Open Loop and closed loop control systems and their
differences- Different examples of control systems- Classification of control systems,
Feed-Back Characteristics, Effects of feedback.
Mathematical models – Differential equations, Impulse Response and transfer
functions - Translational and Rotational mechanical systems
84
UNIT II
TRANSFER FUNCTION REPRESENTATION AND TIME RESPONSE ANALYSIS
Transfer Function of DC Servo motor - AC Servo motor- Synchro transmitter and
Receiver, Block diagram representation of systems considering electrical systems as
examples -Block diagram algebra – Representation by Signal flow graph - Reduction
using Mason’s gain formula.
Standard test signals - Time response of first order systems – Characteristic Equation
of Feedback control systems, Transient response of second order systems - Time
domain specifications – Steady state response - Steady state errors and error
constants – Effects of proportional derivative, proportional integral systems.
UNIT III
STABILITY ANALYSIS IN S-DOMAIN
The concept of stability – Routh’s stability criterion – qualitative stability and conditional
stability – limitations of Routh’s stability.
ROOT LOCUS TECHNIQUE
The root locus concept - construction of root loci-effects of adding poles and zeros to
G(s) H(s) on the root loci.
UNIT IV
FREQUENCY RESPONSE AND STABILITY ANALYSIS IN FREQUENCY DOMAIN
Introduction, Frequency domain specifications-Bode diagrams-Determination of
Frequency domain specifications and transfer function from the Bode Diagram-Phase
margin and Gain margin-Stability Analysis from Bode Plots. Polar Plots-Nyquist Plots-
Stability Analysis.
UNIT V
CLASSICAL CONTROL DESIGN TECHNIQUES AND STATE SPACE ANALYSIS OF
CONTINUOUS SYSTEMS
Compensation techniques – Lag, Lead, Lead-Lag Controllers design in frequency
Domain, PID Controllers.
Concepts of state, state variables and state model, derivation of state models from
block diagrams, Diagonalization- Solving the Time invariant state Equations- State
Transition Matrix and it’s Properties – Concepts of Controllability and Observability.
85
TEXT BOOKS
1. Control Systems Engineering by I. J. Nagrath and M. Gopal, New Age
International (P) Limited, Publishers, 2nd edition.
2. Automatic Control Systems 8th edition by B. C. Kuo 2003– John wiley and
son’s.,
REFERENCES
1. Modern Control Engineering by Katsuhiko Ogata, Prentice Hall of India Pvt.
Ltd., 3rd edition, 1998.
2. Control Systems by N.K.Sinha, New Age International (P) Limited Publishers,
3rd Edition, 1998.
3. Control Systems Engineering. by NISE, John wiley, 3rd Edition.
4. Modelling and Control Of Dynamic Systems by Narciso F. Macia George J.
Thaler, Thomson Publishers.
5. Modern control system theory by M.Gopal, New age international publishers,
Revised second edition.
86
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(ECE1104) SWITCHING THEORY AND LOGIC DESIGN
Pre-requisites: Basic Electronics
Course Objectives
 To understand the concepts of number systems, codes and design of various
combinational and synchronous sequential circuits
 To learn various methods to minimize the Boolean expressions for reducing the
number of gates and cost
 To realize logic networks, digital computers using PROM, PLA, PAL devices.
 To design state machines and ASM charts
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Use the concepts of Boolean Algebra for the analysis and various
number systems for digital data representations
 Design combinational and sequential circuits
 Implement designs on PLDs
 Design ASM charts for digital systems
UNIT I
NUMBER SYSTEMS & CODES: Philosophy of number systems – complement
representation of negative numbers-binary arithmetic-binary codes-error detecting &
error correcting codes –hamming codes.
BOOLEAN ALGEBRA: Fundamental postulates of Boolean Algebra - Basic theorems
and properties
UNIT II
SWITCHING FUNCTIONS: Canonical and Standard forms-Algebraic simplification ,
Digital logic gates, properties of XOR gates –universal gates-Multilevel NAND/NOR
realizations.
MINIMIZATION OF SWITCHING FUNCTIONS : Map method, Prime implicants, Don’t
care combinations, Minimal SOP and POS forms, Tabular Method, Prime –Implicant
chart, simplification rules.
87
UNIT III
COMBINATIONAL LOGIC DESIGN:Design using conventional logic gates, Encoder,
Decoder, Multiplexer, De-Multiplexer, Modular design using IC chips, MUX Realization
of switching functions Parity bit generator, Code-converters, Hazards and hazard free
realizations.
PROGRAMMABLE LOGIC DEVICES: Basic PLD’s-ROM, PROM, PLA, PLD
Realization of Switching functions using PLD’s.
UNIT IV
SEQUENTIAL CIRCUITS – I: Classification of sequential circuits (Synchronous,
Asynchronous, Pulse mode, Level mode with examples) Basic flip-flops-Triggering and
excitation tables. Steps in synchronous sequential circuit design. Design of modulo-N
Ring & Shift counters, Serial binary adder,sequence detector.
UNIT V
SEQUENTIAL CIRCUITS - II: Finite state machine-capabilities and limitations, Mealy
and Moore models-minimization of completely specified and incompletely specified
sequential machines, Partition techniques and Merger chart methods-concept of
minimal cover table. Introduction to ASM charts, simple examples, system Design
using data path and control subsystems , ASM charts for Flip Flops and Binary
multiplier
TEXTBOOKS
1. Switching & Finite Automata theory – Zvi Kohavi, TMH,2nd Edition.
3. Digital Design – Morris Mano, PHI, 3rd Edition, 2006.
REFERENCES
1. An Engineering Approach To Digital Design – Fletcher, PHI. Digital Logic –
Application and Design – John M. Yarbrough, Thomson.
2. Fundamentals of Logic Design – Charles H. Roth, Thomson Publications, 5th
Edition, 2004.
3. Digital Logic Applications and Design – John M. Yarbrough, Thomson
Publications, 2006
88
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(ECE1105) ELECTROMAGNETIC THEORY AND TRANSMISSION LINES
Pre-requisites: Vector Calculus, Electric and Magnetic fields concepts
Course Objectives
 To provide the basic concepts of Electric and Magnetic fields.
 To understand the Maxwell’s equations and applying boundary conditions to the
different material interfaces.
 To conceptualize the wave propagation characteristics for different media.
 To learn the basic parameters of Transmission lines.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Apply the basic concepts of Electric and Magnetic fields in static and time
varying conditions.
 Apply Maxwell’s equations to solve equations of EM fields.
 Apply wave propagation characteristics and power calculations in applications
like antennas.
 Design a lossless/distortion less transmission system.
UNIT I
Electrostatics: Coulomb’s law, Electric filed intensity, fields due to different charge
distributions, Electric flux density, Gauss law and applications, Electric potential,
Relations between E and V, Maxwell’s two equations for electro static fields, energy
density, Convection and Conduction currents, Dielectric Constant, Isotropic and
Homogeneous Dielectrics , Continuity equation, Relaxation time, Poisson’s and
Laplace equations, Capacitance –parallel plate, coaxial, spherical capacitors,
Illustrative problems.
UNIT II
Magneto Statics :Biot – Savart’s law, Ampere’s circuital law and applications,
Magnetic flux density, Magnetic scalar and vector potentials, Forces due to Magnetic
fields, Amperes Force law, Inductances and Magnetic energy, Illustrative problems
UNIT III
Maxwell’s Equations: Maxwell’s Equations (Time Varying Fields)Faraday’s law and
Transformer emf, Inconsistency of the Amperes law and displacement current density,
Maxwell’s equations in differential forms, integral forms and word statements,
89
conditions at a boundary surface: Dielectric - Dielectric and Dielectric conductor
interfaces – Illustrative problems.
EM wave Characteristics – I: Wave equations for conducting and perfect dielectric
media. Uniform plane waves – definitions, all relations between E and H sinusoidal
variations, wave propagation in loss less and conducting media, conductors and
Dielectrics-characterization, wave propagation in good conductors and good
dielectrics, polarization, Illustrative problems.
UNIT IV
EM Waves characteristics – II : Reflection and refraction of plane waves – normal
and Oblique incidences for both perfect conductor and perfect dielectrics, Brewster
angle, Critical angle and Total internal reflection, Surface Impedance, poynting vector
and poynting theorem – applications, power loss in a plane conductor, Illustrative
problems.
UNIT V
Transmission Lines: Types, parameters, Transmission line equations, primary and
secondary constants, Expressions for characteristic impedances, propagation
constant, phase and group velocities, Infinite line concepts, Loss loss/ low loss
characterization, Distortion – condition for distortionless and minimum attenuation,
Loading, Types of loading, Illustrative problems.
Input impedance relations, sc and oc lines, reflection coefficient, VSWR, UHF lines as
circuit, elements, /4, /2, /8 lines - impedance Transformations, Significance of Z
min
and Z , smith chart, configuration and applications, single and double stub matching,
max
Illustrative problems.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Elements of Electro magnetics – Matthew N.O.Sadiku, Oxford Univ.Press, 3rd
Edition, 2001.
2. Electromagnetic Waves and Radiating Systems- E.C. Jordan and
K.G.Balman,PHI, 2nd Edition, 2000.
3. Transmission Lines and Networks - Umesh Sinha, Satya Prakashan,
Tech.India Publications, New Delhi, 2001.
REFERENCES
1. Engineering Electromagnetics - William H.Hayt jr.and John A. Buck,TMH, 7th
Edition, 2006.
2. Electromagnetic Field Theory and Transmission Lines - G.S.N. Raju, Pearson
Publication, 2005.
3 Networks Lines and Fields - John D Rider 2nd Edition, PHI, 1999.
90
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(EIE1104) PULSE AND DIGITAL CIRCUITS
Pre-requisites: Electronic Devices and Circuits
Course Objectives
 To provide knowledge of Pulse and Wave shaping circuits.
 To analyze and design BJT switching circuits
 Analyze and Design the Sweep generators for various applications.
 To Analyze and Design of the logic gates and sampling gates using discrete
components.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Design linear and non-linear wave shaping circuits.
 Apply the fundamental concepts of wave shaping circuits for various switching
and logic circuits
 Design the time base circuits for various applications
 Design the sampling gates for various applications
UNIT I
LINEAR WAVESHAPING
High pass, low pass RC circuits, their response for sinusoidal, step, pulse, square and
ramp inputs. RC network as differentiator and integrator. Attenuators and its
applications in CRO probe, RL and RLC circuits and their response for step input.
UNIT II
NON-LINEAR WAVE SHAPING
Diode clippers, Transistor clippers, clipping at two independent levels, Transfer
characteristics of clippers, Emitter coupled clipper, Comparators, applications of
voltage comparators, clamping operation, clamping circuits using diode with different
inputs, Clamping circuit theorem, practical clamping circuits, effect of diode
characteristics on clamping voltage.
UNITIII
SWITCHING CHARACTERISTICS OF DEVICES
Diode as a switch, piecewise linear diode characteristics, Transistor as a switch, Break
down voltage consideration of transistor, saturation parameters of Transistor and their
variation with temperature, transistor-switching times.
91
MULTIVIBRATORS
Analysis and Design of Bistable, Monostable, Astable Multivibrators and Schmitt trigger
using transistors.
UNIT IV
TIME BASE GENERATORS
General features of a time base signal, methods of generating time base waveform,
Miller and Bootstrap time base generators – basic principles, Transistor miller time
base generator, Transistor Bootstrap time base generator, Current time base
generators.
SYNCHRONIZATION AND FREQUENCY DIVISION
Principles of Synchronization, Pulse synchronization of Relaxation devices, Frequency
division in sweep circuits, astable relaxation circuits, Synchronization of a sweep circuit
with symmetrical signals.
UNIT V
SAMPLING GATES
Basic operating principles of sampling gates, Unidirectional and Bi-directional sampling
gates, Reduction of pedestal in gate circuits, Applications of sampling gates.
LOGIC GATES
Relaxation of logic gates Using Diodes and Transistors: AND, OR and NOT gates
using Diodes, Resistor, Transistor Logic and Diode Transistor Logic.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Pulse, Digital and Switching Waveforms J. Millman and H. Taub, McGraw-
Hill, 1991.
2. Pulse and Digital Circuits – A. Anand Kumar, PHI.
REFERENCES
1. Pulse and Digital circuits – M.S. Prakash Rao, Mc. Graw Hill
2. Solid State Pulse circuits - David A. Bell, PHI, 4th Edn.., 2002 .
3. Wave Generation and Shaping L. Strauss.
4. Pulse, Digital Circuits and Computer Fundamentals - R.Venkataraman.
92
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech ECE– II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(CED1105) ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
Course Objectives:
 Develop an understanding of the necessity of protection of environment
 Develop an understanding of Natural resources
 Develop an understanding of Biodiversity
 Develop an understanding of Global Environmental problems and
Environmental pollution
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Acquire the knowledge on environment
 Acquire the knowledge of various Natural Resources
 Develop skills in understanding of various environmental problems
 Develop skills to protect the Environment
UNIT-I
Introduction, Definition, scope and importance, Ecosystems: Introduction, types,
characteristic features, structure and functions of ecosystems. Bio geo chemical cycle,
Classification of Eco system.
UNIT-II
Natural Resources :classification of Resources, Land resources, Land as resource,
Common property resources, Land degradation, Soil erosion and desertification,
Effects of modern agriculture, fertilizer –pesticide problems, Forest resources, Use and
over-exploitation.
Mining and dams – their effects on forest and tribal people, Water resources, Use and
over- utilization of surface and groundwater, Floods, droughts, Water logging and
salinity, Dams –benefits and costs, Conflicts over Water. Energy resources, Energy
resources.
UNIT III
Bio-diversity and its conservation, Value of bio-diversity -consumptive and productive
use, social, ethical, aesthetic and option values, Bio-geographical classification of India
– India as a mega diversity habitat, Threats to bio-diversity –Hot-spots, habitat loss,
poaching of wild life, loss of species, seeds, etc. Conservation of bio-diversity – Insitu
and Ex-situ conservation.
93
UNIT IV
Environmental Pollution –Local and Global Issues, Nature of thermal pollution and
nuclear hazards, Global warming, Acid rain, Ozone layer depletion., Environmental
case studies:.
UNIT-V
Environmental Problems in India, Drinking water, sanitation and public health, Effects
of the activities on the quality of environment, Water scarcity and groundwater
depletion, Controversies on major dams – resettlement and rehabilitation of people:
problems and concerns, Rain water harvesting, cloud seeding and watershed
management. Economy and Environment, The economy and environment
interaction, Economics of development, preservation and conservation, Sustainability:
theory and practices, Limits to growth, Equitable use of resources for sustainable life
styles, Environmental Impact Assessment.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Environmental studies-A.Y.Anjaneyulu
2. Environmental studies-Deeksha dave
3. Environmental sciences and management-Venugopal
94
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B .Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(ECE1106) ANALOG COMMUNICATIONS
Pre-requisites: Signals and Systems
Course Objectives
 To know the need for modulation in radio communication system.
 To understand the principles of various modulation and demodulation
Techniques.
 To analyze various types of transmitters and receivers.
 To analyze the noise performance of Analog Modulation systems.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Apply and relate the analog modulation techniques to real time applications like
Radio Broadcasting,
telecommunications, TV’s etc.
 Compare different modulation Techniques
 Design transmitters and receivers for Analog Communication.
 Design various communication systems by including noise analysis
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION : Introduction to communication system, Need for modulation,
Frequency Division Multiplexing , Amplitude Modulation, Definition, Time domain and
frequency domain description, single tone modulation, power relations in AM waves,
Generation of AM wave using square law and Switching modulator, Detection of AM
Waves using square law and Envelope detector.
DSB MODULATION: Double side band suppressed carrier modulators, time domain
and frequency domain description, Generation of DSBSC Waves using Balanced and
Ring Modulator, Coherent detection of DSB-SC Modulated waves, COSTAS Loop.
UNIT II
SSB MODULATION: Frequency domain description, Frequency discrimination method
for generation of AM SSB Modulated Wave, Time domain description, Phase
discrimination method for generating AM SSB Modulated waves. Demodulation of SSB
Waves, Vestigial side band modulation: Frequency description, Generation of VSB
Modulated wave, Time domain description, Envelope detection of a VSB Wave pulse
Carrier, Comparison of AM Techniques, Applications of different AM Systems. Noise in
95
Analog communication System, Noise in DSB and SSB System Noise in AM System
UNIT III
ANGLE MODULATION: Basic concepts, Frequency Modulation: Single tone frequency
modulation, Spectrum Analysis of Sinusoidal FM Wave, Narrow band FM, Wide band
FM, Transmission bandwidth of FM Wave - Generation of FM Waves, Direct FM and
Indirect FM, Detection of FM Waves: Balanced Frequency discriminator, Zero crossing
detector, Phase locked loop, Foster Seeley discriminator, Ratio detector, Comparison
of FM and AM. Noise in Angle Modulation System, Threshold effect in Angle
Modulation System, Pre-emphasis and de-emphasis
UNIT IV
TRANSMITTERS: Radio Transmitter - Classification of Transmitter, AM Transmitter,
FM Transmitter – Variable reactance type and phase modulated FM Transmitter,
frequency stability in FM Transmitter.
RECEIVERS : Radio Receiver - Receiver Types - Tuned radio frequency receiver,
Super-heterodyne receiver, RF section, Mixer (Down Converter ) and Characteristics,
Frequency Synthesizer , Frequency changing and tracking, Intermediate frequency,
AGC, FM Receiver, Comparison with AM Receiver, Amplitude limiting.
UNIT V
PULSE MODULATION: Overview of sampling for Band pass and Band limited signals,
Time Division Multiplexing, Types of Pulse modulation, PAM (Single polarity, double
polarity) PWM: Generation and demodulation of PWM, PPM, Generation and
demodulation of PPM
TEXTBOOKS
1. Principles of Communication Systems – H Taub and D. Schilling, Gautham
Sahe, 3rd Edition, TMH, 2009.
2. Modern analog and digital Communication Systems – B.P. Lathi and Zhi
Ding, Oxford Publication,4th Edition, 2010.
3. Communication Systems – R.P. Singh, SP Sapre, 2nd Edition,TMH, 2007
REFERENCES
1. Principles of Communication Systems - Simon Haykin, John Wiley, 2nd
Edition.
2. Electronics and Communication System – George Kennedy and Bernard
Davis, TMH, 2004.
3. Fundamentals of Communication Systems - John G. Proakis, Masond, Salehi
PEA, 2006.
4. Communication Systems –B.P Lathi, B.S.Publication, 2006.
96
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ECE1204) ANALOG COMMUNICATION LABORATORY
Pre-requisites: signals and systems
Course Objectives
 To analyze various modulation techniques in communications.
 To analyze various spectrums using spectrum analyzer.
 To analyze receiver characteristics.
 To understand the importance of AGC and VCO
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Simulate all the experiments using any simulation software
 Design transmitter and receiver in analog communication system
 Perform various experiments using Teena software and ASL Kit
 Understand and Analyze various problems when implemented on DSP
The experiments are to be software simulated and implemented through
Hardware.
At least Six experiments have to be implemented using DSP Processor, i.e., TMS
3206713.
1. Amplitude modulation and demodulation.
2. Diode detector characteristics.
3. Frequency Modulation and Demodulation.
4. Balanced Modulator.
5. Synchronous detector.
6. SSB system
7. Pre-emphasis and de-emphasis.
8. Characteristics of mixer.
9. Digital phase detector.
10. Phase locked loop using ASL kit
11. Spectral analysis of AM and FM signals using spectrum analyzer.
12. Squelch Circuit.
13. Frequency Synthesizer.
14. AGC Characteristics and AVC using ASL kit.
15. Receiver Measurements
16. Function generator and VCO using ASL kit.
97
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(EIE1202) PULSE AND DIGITAL CIRCUITS LABORATORY
Pre-requisites: Electronic Devices and Circuits
Course Objectives
 To demonstrate the various wave shaping circuits.
 To demonstrate generation of various non-sinusoidal waveforms.
 To demonstrate functionality of various logic gates.
 To analyze dynamic response of electronic switch.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Design linear and non linear wave shaping circuits .
 Generate various wave forms such as Square, Pulse and Sweep
 Design electronic switch.
 Design simple applications such as counters of flip-flops.
List of Experiments:
1. Linear wave shaping.
2. Non Linear wave shaping – Clippers.
3. Non Linear wave shaping – Clampers.
4. Transistor as a switch.
5. Study of Logic Gates and Some applications.
6. Study of Flip-Flops and some applications.
7. Sampling Gates.
8. Astable Multivibrator.
9. Monostable Multivibrator.
10. Bistable Multivibrator.
11. Schmitt Trigger.
12. UJT Relaxation Oscillator.
13. Bootstrap sweep circuit.
14. PCB Design using ORCAD Software
98
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(ITD1104) COMPUTER ORGANIZATION
Pre-requisites: Digital fundamentals
Course Objectives
 Learn basic hardware and software of computer organization.
 Know the instructions codes, formats and addressing modes of a computer.
 Learn micro programmed control unit and memory organization of a computer.
 Understand computer arithmetic, IO organization and parallel processing.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Analyze the concepts of computer organization for several engineering applications.
 Use the fundamentals of computer organization as a tool in digital systems.
 Identify, formulate, and solve hardware and software computer engineering
problems.
 Analyze IO, memory, Stack organization and parallel processing of a computer.
UNIT I
BASIC STRUCTURE OF COMPUTERS: Computer types, functional unit, basic
operational concepts, bus structures, multi processors and multi computers, multi
tasking.
Register Transfer Language and Micro operations: Register Transfer language,
register Transfer, Arithmetic Micro operations, Logic Micro operations, Shift Micro
operations, Arithmetic logic shift unit.
UNIT II
BASIC COMPUTER ORGANIZATION AND DESIGN: Instruction Codes, Computer
Registers, computer instructions – instruction Cycle, memory reference instructions,
input-output and interrupt. Central Processing Unit: Stack organization, instruction
formats, addressing modes, data transfer and manipulation, program control, CISC and
RISC.
UNIT III
MICROPROGRAMMED CONTROL: Control memory, address sequencing, micro
program example, design of control unit, hardwired control, micro programmed control.
THE MEMORY ORGANIZATION: Memory hierarchy, Main Memory, Cache memory,
performance considerations, virtual memory, secondary storage.
99
UNIT IV
COMPUTER ARITHMETIC: Addition and subtraction, multiplication algorithms,
Division algorithms, floating-point arithmetic operations, Decimal arithmetic unit,
Decimal arithmetic operations.
INPUT-OUTPUT ORGANIZATION: Peripheral devices, input-output interface,
asynchronous data transfer, modes of transfer, priority interrupt, direct memory access.
UNIT V
PIPELINE AND VECTOR PROCESSING: Parallel Processing, Pipelining, Arithmetic
Pipeline, Instuction pipeline, RISC pipeline Vector Processing, Array Processors.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Computer System Architecture – M. Morris Mano, III edition, Pearson/PHI
2. Computer organization – Carl Hamacher, Zvonks Vranesic, Safeazaky, V
edition, Mc Graw Hill
REFERENCES
1. Computer Organization and Architecture – William Stallings Sixth edition,
Pearson/PHI
2. Fundamentals of Computer Organization and Design, Sivarama Dandamudi
3. Computer Architecture a Quantitative approach, John L. Hennessy and David
A Patterson, Fourth edition Elsevier.
4. Computer Architecture Fundamentals and Principles of Computer Design,
Joseph D/ Dumas II,
BS Publication
100
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(EIE1106) LINEAR AND DIGITAL IC APPLICATIONS
Pre-requisites: Electronic circuits and Digital fundamentals
Course Objectives
 To study the characteristics and design concepts of operational amplifiers.
 To understand the functionality of specific ICs: 555 timer, 565, voltage
regulators.
 To study the applications and design concepts of various ICs.
 To understand concepts of Digital circuits using digital ICs.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Analyze electrical properties of Op-Amps and design various linear and
nonlinear applications using Op-Amps.
 Design various applications of 555 timer, IC 565, voltage regulators.
 Understand and compare TTL and CMOS IC logic families.
 Design various combinational and sequential logic circuits using digital ICs.
UNIT I
INTEGRATED CIRCUITS : Classification, chip size and circuit complexity, basic
information of Op-amp, ideal and practical Op-amp, internal circuits, Op-amp
characteristics, DC and AC characteristics, 741 op-amp and its features, modes of
operation-inverting, non-inverting, differential.
OP-AMP APPLICATIONS : Basic application of Op-amp, instrumentation amplifier, ac
amplifier, V to I and I to V converters, sample and hold circuits, Log and antilog
amplifier, Precision rectifiers, Differentiators, Integrators, peak detectors,
comparators, sample and hold circuits
UNIT II
ACTIVE FILTERS and OSCILLATORS : Introduction, 1st order LPF, HPF filters. Band
pass, Band reject and all pass filters. Oscillator types and principle of operation – RC
and Wien bridge, waveform generators – triangular, square wave and VCO.
Comparators.
101
UNIT III
SPECIAL ICs: Introduction to 555 timer, functional diagram, monostable and astable
operations and applications, Schmitt Trigger. PLL - introduction, block schematic,
principles and description of individual blocks of 565, introduction to voltage regulators.
D-A AND A- D CONVERTERS : Introduction, basic DAC techniques, weighted resistor
DAC, R-2R ladder DAC, inverted R-2R DAC, and IC 1408 DAC, Different types of
ADCs - parallel comparator type ADC, counter type ADC, successive approximation
ADC and dual slope ADC. DAC and ADC specifications.
UNIT IV
LOGIC FAMILIES : Classification of Integrated circuits, comparision of TTL and CMOS
logic families, standard TTL NAND Gate- Analysis and characteristics, TTL open
collector O/Ps, Tristate TTL, MOS and CMOS open drain and tristate outputs, CMOS
transmission gate, IC interfacing- TTL driving CMOS and CMOS driving TTL .
UNIT V
COMBINATIONAL CIRCUIT DESIGN : Design using TTL-74XX series ICs - Code
Converters, Decoders, De-multiplexers, Encoders, priority Encoders, multiplexers and
their applications, Priority Generators, Arithmetic circuit ICs-parallel binary
Adder/Subtractor circuits using 2’s-Complement system, Digital comparator circuits.
SEQUENTIAL CIRCUITS : Commonly available 74XX series ICs-SR, JK, JK Master
Slave, D and T Type Flip-Flops & their conversions, Design of Synchronous and
Asynchronous counters, Decade counter, shift registers and applications using TTL-
74XX series ICs.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Linear Integrated Circuits –D. Roy Chowdhury, New Age International (p)
Ltd, 2nd Edition, 2008..
2. Digital Fundamentals – Floyd and Jain, Pearson Education, 8th Edition, 2005.
3. Op-Amps and Linear ICs – Ramakanth A. Gayakwad, PHI, 1987
REFERENCES
1. Operational Amplifiers and Linear Integrated Circuits – R.F. Coughlin and
Fredrick F. Driscoll, PHI, 1977.
2 . Operational Amplifiers and Linear Integrated Circuits:4/e William D Stanley
PEI 2009.
3. Op Amps and Linear Integrated Circuits: Concepts and Applications by
James M. Fiore, Cengage/ Jaico ,2/e, 2009.
4. Operational Amplifiers and Linear Integrated Circuits by K.Lal Kishore -
Pearson education, 2008.
5. Mordern Digital Electronics RP Jain 4/e TMH 2010.
102
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(ECE1107) DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS
Pre-requisites: Analog Communications, Probability theory
Course Objectives
 Understand various modulation techniques.
 Study the concepts of base band transmissions.
 Knowledge of information theory.
 Importance of coding theory.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Analyze pulse digital modulation techniques.
 Compare power spectral densities of various encoding formats and know the
Importance of pulse shaping.
 Apply modulation techniques to design a digital system.
 Understand source and channel coding schemes
UNIT I
PULSE DIGITAL MODULATION: Elements of digital communication systems,
advantages of digital communication systems, elements of PCM: sampling,
quantization and coding, quantization error, non-uniform Quantization and
companding. Differential PCM systems (DPCM) and Adaptive DPCM.
DELTA MODULATION: Delta modulation, its drawbacks, adaptive Delta modulation,
comparison of PCM and DM systems, noise in PCM and DM systems.
UNIT II
BASE BAND TRANSMISSION: Requirements of a line encoding format, various line
encoding formats- Unipolar, Polar, Bipolar, Scrambling techniques-B8ZS,HDB3.
Computation of power spectral densities of various line encoding formats.
M-ARY PULSE MODULATION: Inter symbol interference, pulse shaping to reduce ISI,
Nyquist’s criterion, Raised cosine filter, Equalization, Correlative level coding, Duo-
binary encoding, Modified Duo-binary encoding.
UNIT III
DIGITAL MODULATION TECHNIQUES: Introduction, ASK Modulator, Coherent ASK
Detector, Non-Coherent ASK Detector, FSK, Bandwidth and frequency Spectrum of
FSK, Non-Coherent FSK Detector, Coherent FSK Detector, FSK Detection using PLL,
BPSK, Coherent PSK Detection, QPSK, DPSK, DEPSK.
103
DATA TRANSMISSION: base band signal receiver, probability of error, optimum filter,
matched filter, probability of error using matched filter, probability of error for various
line encoding formats, correlator receiver, Calculation of Probability Errors of ASK,
FSK, BPSK.
UNIT IV
INFORMATION THEORY: Information and Entropy conditional entropy, Mutual
Information, channel Capacity, Various Mathematical Modeling of Communication
Channels and their Capacities, Hartley Shannon Law, Trade off between bandwidth
and S/N ratio Source Coding. Fixed Length and Variable Length Source Coding
Schemes.
UNIT V
LINEAR BLOCK CODES: Introduction to error control coding, Matrix description of
linear block codes, error detection and error correction capabilities of linear block
codes, hamming code, binary cyclic codes, algebraic structure, encoding, syndrome
calculation and decoding.
CONVOLUTIONAL CODES: Introduction, encoding of convolutional codes, time
domain approach, transform domain approach. General approach: state, tree and
trellis diagram, decoding using viterbi algorithm, burst error correction, block
interleaving and Convolutional interleaving.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Digital and Analog Communication Systems – Sam Shanmugam, John Wiley,
2005
2. Principles of Communication Systems – H. Taub and D. Schilling, Goutam
Saha, 3rd Edition, McGraw-Hill, 2010.
REFERENCES
1. Digital Communications – Simon Haykin, John Wiley, 2005.
2. Digital Communications – John Proakis, TMH, 1983.
3. Communication Systems Analog and Digital – Singh and Sapre, TMH, 2004.
4. Modern Analog and Digital Communications – B.P. Lathi and Zhi Ding,
International 4th Edition, Oxford University Press.
104
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(ECE1108) ANTENNAS AND WAVE PROPAGATION
Pre-requisites: Electro Magnetic Theory concepts
Course Objectives
 To know about the fundamentals to design various types of Antennas.
 To analyze the fields associated with various types of antennas along with
emphasis on their applications
 To know the measurement techniques involved in measuring antenna
parameters
 To understand the concepts of radio wave propagation in the atmosphere.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Apply the fundamentals to design various types antennas
 Quantify the fields radiated by various types of antennas
 Analyze antenna parameters measurement to assess antenna’s performance
 Analyze the intricacies involved in propagation of waves in free space
UNIT I
ANTENNA FUNDAMENTALS: Introduction, Radiation Mechanism – single wire,
2 wire, dipoles, Current Distribution on a thin wire antenna . Antenna Parameters -
Radiation Patterns, Patterns in Principal Planes, Main Lobe and Side Lobes,
Beamwidths, Polarization, Beam Area, Radiation Intensity, Beam Efficiency, Directivity,
Gain and Resolution, Antenna Apertures, Aperture Efficiency, Effective Height,
illustrated Problems.
UNIT II
THIN LINEAR WIRE ANTENNAS: Retarded Potentials, Radiation from Small Electric
Dipole, Quarterwave Monopole and Halfwave Dipole – Current Distributions,
Evaluation of Field Components, Power Radiated, Radiation Resistance, Beamwidths,
Directivity, Effective Area and Effective Hight. Natural current distributions, fields and
patterns of Thin Linear Center-fed Antennas of different lengths, Radiation Resistance
at a point which is not current maximum. Antenna Theorems – Applicability and Proofs
for equivalence of directional characteristics, Loop Antennas : Small Loops - Field
105
Components, Comparison of far fields of small loop and short dipole, Concept of short
magnetic dipole, D and R relations for small loops.
r
UNIT III
ANTENNA ARRAYS : 2 element arrays – different cases, Principle of Pattern
Multiplication, N element Uniform Linear Arrays – Broadside, Endfire Arrays, EFA with
Increased Directivity, Derivation of their characteristics and comparison; Concept of
Scanning Arrays. Directivity Relations (no derivations). Related Problems. Binomial
Arrays, Effects of Uniform and Non-uniform Amplitude Distributions, Design Relations.
Arrays with Parasitic Elements, Yagi - Uda Arrays, Folded Dipoles and their
characteristics.
NON-RESONANT RADIATORS : Introduction, Traveling wave radiators – basic
concepts, Longwire antennas – field strength calculations and patterns, Microstrip
Antennas-Introduction, Features, Advantages and Limitations, Rectangular Patch
Antennas –Geometry and Parameters, Impact of different parameters on
characteristics. Broadband Antennas: Helical Antennas – Significance, Geometry,
basic properties; Design considerations for monofilar helical antennas in Axial Mode
and Normal Modes (Qualitative Treatment).
UNIT IV
VHF, UHF AND MICROWAVE ANTENNAS - I : Reflector Antennas : Flat Sheet and
Corner Reflectors. Paraboloidal Reflectors – Geometry, characteristics, types of feeds,
F/D Ratio, Spill Over, Back Lobes, Aperture Blocking, Off-set Feeds, Cassegrainian
Feeds.
Horn Antennas – Types, Optimum Horns, Design Characteristics of Pyramidal Horns;
Lens Antennas – Geometry, Features, Dielectric Lenses and Zoning, Applications,
Antenna Measurements – Patterns Required, Set Up, Distance Criterion, Directivity
and Gain Measurements (Comparison, Absolute and 3-Antenna Methods).
UNIT V
WAVE PROPAGATION : Concepts of Propagation – frequency ranges and types of
propagations. Ground Wave Propagation–Characteristics, Parameters, Wave Tilt, Flat
and Spherical Earth Considerations. Sky Wave Propagation – Formation of
Ionospheric Layers and their Characteristics, Mechanism of Reflection and Refraction,
Critical Frequency, MUF and Skip Distance – Calculations for flat and spherical earth
cases, Optimum Frequency, LUHF, Virtual Height, Ionospheric Abnormalities,
Ionospheric Absorption.
Fundamental Equation for Free-Space Propagation, Basic Transmission Loss
Calculations. Space Wave Propagation – Mechanism, LOS and Radio Horizon.
Tropospheric Wave Propagation – Radius of Curvature of path, Effective Earth’s
Radius, Effect of Earth’s Curvature, Field Strength Calculations, M-curves and Duct
Propagation, Tropospheric Scattering.
106
TEXT BOOKS
1. Antennas for All Applications – John D. Kraus and Ronald J. Marhefka, 3rd
Edition, TMH, 2003.
2. Electromagnetic Waves and Radiating Systems – E.C. Jordan and K.G.
Balmain, 65PHI, 2nd Edition, 2000.
REFERENCES
1. Antenna Theory - C.A. Balanis, John Wiley and Sons, 2nd Edition, 2001.
2. Antennas and Wave Propagation – K.D. Prasad, Satya Prakashan, Tech
India Publications, New Delhi, 2001.
3. Transmission and Propagation – E.V.D. Glazier and H.R.L. Lamont, The
Services Text Book of Radio, vol. 5, Standard Publishers Distributors, Delhi.
4. Electronic and Radio Engineering – F.E. Terman, McGraw-Hill, 4th Edition,
1955.
5. Antennas – John D. Kraus, McGraw-Hill, 2nd Edition, 1988.
107
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(CMS1101) BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Course Objectives
 To explain different forms of organizing private and public sector
business enterprises and to analyze the significance of Business
Economics in solving the problems of business enterprise. Also to
define and analyze the concepts of Demand, Elasticity of Demand and
Demand Forecasting Methods.
 To analyze the various types of costs and to determine the level of
output at which there is neither profit nor loss. To estimate capital
requirements and to describe various sources of mobilizing funds. Also
to identify least cost combinations of inputs produce desired quantity of
output.
 To describe the features of different market structure and pricing
strategies.
 To explain the basic accounting concepts and conventions. To
elaborate the importance of finance function for evaluating the
economic status of a business unit.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Select the suitable form of business organization which meets the
requirement of selected business also perform decision – making
function effectively in an uncertain frame work by applying concepts of
Managerial Economics. Meet and manipulate the demand efficiently and
plan the future course of action.
 Apply right kind cost to reduce cost by paying attention towards the costs
which can be reduced. Take decision whether to buy or produce?
Reduce the cost of capital by selecting best source of fund mobilization
and select best investment opportunity which yields higher rate of return.
 Fix the right price which can best meets the predetermined objectives of
the business firm under different market conditions. Able to select best
combination of inputs to produce required quantity of output.
108
 Prepare books of accounts and know over all financial position of the
business enterprise which enables the concerned to take appropriate
measures to improve the situation. Also interpret the financial position
from difference angles and initiates the measures/ efforts in that
direction.
UNIT I
Business and new economic environment
Characteristic features of business; Features and evaluation of sole proprietorship;
Partnership; Joint stock company; Public enterprises and their types; Changing
business environment in post- liberalization scenario.
UNIT II
Introduction to business economics, and demand analysis
Definition; Nature and scope of managerial economics - demand analysis
determinants; Law of demand and its exceptions.
Elasticity of demand and demand forecasting
Definition; Types; Measurement and significance of elasticity of demand; Demand
forecasting; Factors governing demand forecasting; Methods of demand forecasting -
survey methods, statistical methods, expert opinion method, test marketing, controlled
experiments, and judgmental approach to demand forecasting.
UNIT III
Cost analysis
Cost concepts - opportunity cost, fixed vs. variable costs, explicit costs vs. implicit
costs, and out of pocket costs vs. imputed costs; Break-even analysis (BEA) -
determination of break-even point (simple problems), managerial significance, and
limitations of BEA.
Capital and capital budgeting
Capital and its significance; Types of capital; Estimation of fixed and working capital
requirements; Methods and sources of raising finance.
Nature and scope of capital budgeting; Features of capital budgeting proposals;
Methods of capital budgeting - payback method, accounting rate of return (ARR), and
net present value method (simple problems)
UNIT IV
Theory of production
Production function - isoquants and isocosts, least cost combination of inputs, and laws
of returns; Internal and external economics of scale.
Market structures
Types of competition; Features of perfect competition, monopoly, and monopolistic
competition; Price-output determination in case of perfect competition and monopoly.
109
Pricing policies and methods
Cost plus pricing; Marginal cost pricing; Sealed bid pricing; Going rate pricing, Limit
pricing, Market skimming pricing, Penetration pricing, Two-part pricing, Block pricing,
Bundling pricing, Peak load pricing, Cross subsidization.
UNI T V
Introduction to financial accounting
Double-entry book keeping; Journal; Ledger; Trial balance; Final accounts - trading
account, profit and loss account, and balance sheet with simple adjustments.
Financial analysis through ratios
Computation; Analysis and interpretation of liquidity ratios - current ratio, and quick
ratio; Activity ratios - inventory turnover ratio, and debtor turnover ratio; Capital
structure ratios – debt-equity ratio, and interest coverage ratio; Profitability ratios -
gross profit ratio, net profit ratio, operating ratio, P/E ratio, and EPs.
TEXT BOOK
1. Managerial Economics and Financial Analysis by Aryasri, 2009; Publisher:
Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Managerial Economics by Varshney & Maheswari, 2009; Publisher: Sultan
Chand.
REFERENCES
1. Financial Accounting for Management: An analytical perspective by Ambrish
Gupta, 2010; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Managerial Economics by H. Craig Peterson & W. Cris Lewis; Publisher:
Prentice Hall of India.
110
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING &TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech I Sem L T/P/D C
2 0 0
(NCC1102) Soft Skills and Personality Development
Introduction
In an era of Technological advances and competition in the job market, it is necessary
for students to possess soft skills and effective personal skills in addition to technical
skills. It is essential that students possess the ability to convey technical ideas in a
sound and simple manner. Planning and execution are the two important activities
required for them. It is the execution that requires the soft skills as it most of the times
deals with people. This course on “Soft Skills and Personality Development” is aimed
at enhancing students’ career prospects.
This course uncovers the principles of soft skills and personality skills, the ways to
integrate them in different phases of career that require personal and interpersonal
skills. It focuses on transforming the way of one’s thinking and reacting to the
environment. It equips the students with self analysis and gain self- control through
stress management and conflict management. It also helps students with study skills. It
helps students overcome their barriers and achieve excellence in performance and
succeed in their chosen field of work.
Objectives
enable students to convert the conceptual understanding of communication into
everyday
practice
train students to ground concepts/ideas in their own experience enable students to
exercise control over language use
sensitise students to the nuances of the four basic communication skills – Listening,
Speaking, Reading and Writing
enable students to understand the concept and components of personality, so as to
apply the
acquired knowledge and march towards excellence in their academic careers.
train students to become aware of their thinking styles and to enable them to convert
thinking
into performance
prepare students to evolve mental models for intra-personal and inter-personal
transactions
make students reflect and improve their use of body language – posture, gesture, facial
expression, tone
111
sharpen memory skills and other study skills, which are vital for academic excellence.
bring outthe creativity and latent talents of students through goal setting
train students for positive thinking to keep them in good stead at the time of crisis.
SYLLABUS
Unit I: Introduction to Personality Development
1. Definition and Basics of personality
 Determinants of Personality- biological, psychological and socio- cultural
factors
 Need for personality Development
2. Analyzing strengths and Weaknesses
3. Corporate theories on Personality development
4. Increasing vocabulary
5. Body Language
6. Preparation of Self Introduction
7. Motivation
 Self-analysis through SWOT
 Techniques and strategies for self-motivation
Unit II : Techniques in Personality Development Stage I
1. Communication Skills
2. Listening
3. Communication Barriers
4. Overcoming these Barriers
5. Importance of Self Esteem -- Building Self-esteem& Self Confidence
6. Working on attitudes – aggressive, assertive and submissive
7. Goal Setting
8. Leadership and Team Building Skills
9. Group Discussion
Unit III: Techniques in Personality Development Stage II
1. Interpersonal relationships
 Analysis of ego states, Transactions, Strokes and Life Positions
2. Stress Management
 Concept, Nature and Dimensions of Stress
 Causes, Impact and Managing Stress
 Relaxation Techniques
3. The Power of positive thinking
 Nurturing creativity, decision-making and problem solving
 Goals and techniques for positive thinking
 Enhancement of concentration through positive thinking
4. Projecting a Positive Social Image
 Grooming & Social Etiquette
112
 Voice Modulation
 Public Speaking
Unit IV: Techniques in Personality Development Stage III
 Conflict Management
 Introduction to Conflict Management
 Levels of Conflict
 Managing Conflict
 Time Management
 Concept
 Importance and Need
 Steps towards better Time Management
Unit V:Memory and Study Skills
 Definition and importance of memory
 Causes of forgetting
 How to forget (thought stopping), how to remember (techniques for
improving memory)
 The technique of passing exams-Management of examination fear.
PRACTICAL TRAINING
The course would include the following practical exercises.
 Ice- breaking. Brainstorming and simulation exercises. Thought stopping.
Memory and study skills training
 Role play and record work
REFERENCES
1. Mile, D.J (2004). Power of positive thinking. Delhi: Rohan Book Company.
2. Pravesh Kumar (2005). All about self- Motivation. New Delhi: Goodwill
Publishing House.
3. Dudley, G.A. (2004). Double your learning power. Delhi: Konark Press.
Thomas Publishing Group Ltd.
4. Lorayne, H. (2004). How to develop a super power memory. Delhi: Konark
Press. Thomas Publishing Group Ltd.
5. Hurlock, E.B (2006). Personality Development, 28th Reprint. New Delhi: Tata
Mc Graw Hill.
6. Windshuttle, Keith and Elizabeth Elliot.1999. Writing, Researching and
Communicating: Communication Skills for the Information Age. 3rd Reprint.
Tata McGraw-Hill. Australia
7. Dignen, Flinders and Sweeney. English 365. Cambridge University Press
8. Goleman, Daniel. 1998. Working with Emotional Intelligence. Bantam Books.
New York
9. Jones, Leo and Richard Alexander. 2003. New International Business
English. Cambridge University Press
113
10. Lucas, Stephen.2001. Art of Public Speaking. Mc-Graw Hill.
11. Tamblyn, Doni and Sharyn Weiss. 2000. The Big Book OF Humorous
Training Games. 2004 Edition. Tata McGraw-Hill. New Delhi
12. Personality Development by Rajiv K. Mishra. Rupa & Co.
13. Powell. In Company. Macmillan
14. Cotton, et al. Market Leader. Longman
15. Pease, Allan. 1998. Body Language: How to Read Others Thoughts by their
Gestures. Sudha Publications. New Delhi
16. Gardner, Howard. 1993. Multiple Intelligences: The Theory in Practice: A
Reader. Basic Books. New York
17. De Bono, Edward. 2000. Six Thinking Hats. 2nd Edition. Penguin Books.
18. De Bono, Edward. 1993. Serious Creativity. Reprint. Harper Business.
19. Mohan, Krishna and Meera Bannerji, 2001, Developing Communication
Skills. Macmillan.
20. V. Syamala, 2002. Effective English Communication for you. Emerald
Publishers, Chennai.
114
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech ECE– I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ENG1204) ADVANCED ENGLISH COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
Introduction
This course aims to offer students a practical approach to Technical Writing, and
provide a relevant, contemporary and authoritative introduction to the dynamic field of
technical communication that prepares them for Workplace Communication. Each unit
in the syllabus is devised so as to include a writing component as well as an oral
component.
Prerequisites: English Language Communication Skills laboratory
Course objectives:
 enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content to write
business letters, resume, SOP, Proposals and Technical Reports for academics
as well as for workplace
 enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific target
audience
 groom students to speak accurately and fluently and prepare them for real world
activities through behavioral skills.
 train students in soft skills through role play and group discussion to improve their
EQ.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 summarize and synthesize information and produce technical writing that is
required in academics as well as in the engineering profession
 write covering letters, resume, SOP, Project Proposals and Technical Reports
 speak fluently and address a large group of audience and participate in debates
and discussions.
 negotiate terms, manage complex situations through interpersonal skills,
persuade people and make quick decisions
The objectives of this course are to
i) expose students to workplace writing
ii) initiate them into the Process of Technical Communication
iii) enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content
115
iv) enable students to produce documents reflecting different types of technical
communication such as Abstracts, Proposals and Technical Reports through
ample practice
v) enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific
target audience
vi) groom students in behavioral skills
Methodology
Written Communication Component
A Process- Genre methodology will be used in teaching the technical genres. This
method would enable students to understand the use of particular lexico-grammatical
patterns required of in the context of technical writing. They would learn to use
language to express the particular communicative intent that is required of in the
context of writing these genres.
Objectives of Writing Component
i) enable students to write clearly and succintly
ii) equip students with the ability to write technical genres
Oral Communication Component
The objective of including Oral Communication is to impart behavioral skills and
prepare students to speak to a large group or team, keeping in mind the audience,
context and purpose of communication. This Oral Communication component must
enable students to speak in an organized and mature way, without any inhibitions.
They will be groomed to relate their speech to their audience.
Objectives of Oral Communication Component
i) equip students with Behavioral skills
ii) prepare them for Oral presentations, and Group Discussions
iii) equip them with Interview skills
Syllabus Outline
Unit I
Writing Skills 1
1. Applications and Covering letters
2. Resume Writing
3. Verbal Ability
4. Oral Communication :Talking About Yourself
Unit II
1. Writing an SOP
2. Summarizing and Synthesizing Information
3. Oral Communication: Making Presentations
Unit III
1. Writing Project Proposals
116
2. Oral Communication: Group Discussions
Unit IV
1. Writing Project Reports
2. Oral Communication: Interview Skills
Unit V.
Behavioral Skills and Personality Development
1. Building a positive attitude, building a positive personality, Motivation, goal
setting & values & vision
2. Problem Solving and Decision Making; Negotiation Skills through Role Play
3. Team Building and Leadership Abilities
4. Social Etiquette
REQUIRED TEXT AND MATERIALS
1. Ashraf Rizvi, M (2005). Effective Technical Communication, Tata Mc Graw
Hill Publishing Company Limited, New Delhi.
2. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical
Communication: A Reader-Centered Approach ( 5th ed..) (pp. 457-473).
Boston: Heinle.
3. William S. Pfeiffer, (2010) Technical Communication: A Practical Approach
(7th ed.). Prentice Hall
References
1. Burnett, Rebecca. Technical Communication. 5th Ed., Heinle, 2001
2. Bolter, Jay David. ( 2001). The late age of print. In Robert P. Yagelski's (Ed.)
Literacies and
Technologies: A Reader for Contemporary Writers (135-145). New York:
Longman.
3. Brandt, Deborah. (1998). Sponsors of literacy. College Composition and
Communication 49.2, 165-185.
4. Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson : Technical Writing Process and
Product. 3rd edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
5. Johnson-Sheehan, Richard. (2007). Starting Your Career. In Richard
Johnson-Sheehan's Technical Communication Today (2nd ed.) (pp. 388-
402). New York: Longman.
6. Markel, Mike. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies (8th
EDITION (2006-2007)
7. R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan, Business Correspondence and Report Writing,
Third Edition, TMH, 2002. (Indian Edition)
8. M. Raman and S. Sharma, Technical Communication : Principles and
Practices, OUP, 2004. (Indian Edition)
117
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(EIE1204) LINEAR AND DIGITAL IC APPLICATIONS LABORATARY
Course Objectives
 To demonstrate the characteristics and applications of Op-Amps
 To verify the functionality of specific ICs: 555 timer, IC 565, Voltage
regulators
 To verify the functions of various digital ICs
 To study and build applications with ASLKV2010 Starter Kit
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Design various applications using Op-Amps
 Design various applications with specific ICs: 555 timer, IC 565, voltage
regulators
 Design digital circuits using digital ICs
 Design applications using ASLKV2010 Starter Kit
Note: Minimum of 12 experiments have to be conducted (Four from each part).
List of Experiments:
PART 1: To Verify the following Functions.
1. Adder, Subtractor, Comparator using IC 741 OP-AMP.
2. Square Wave Generator and Triangular Wave Generator using OP-AMP.
3. RC Phase Shift & Wien Bridge Oscillators using IC 741 OP-AMP.
4. 4.bit Digital to Analog converter.
5. Schmitt Trigger circuits using IC 741 & IC 555.
6. Voltage Regulator using IC 723, Three terminal voltage regulators-7805,
7809, 7912.
PART -2: T0 Verify the Functionality of the following 74 Series TTL ICs.
7. D-Flip- Flop – (74LS74) and JK Master-Slave Flip- Flop (74LS73).
8. Decade Counter (74LS90) and UP-DOWN Counter (74LS192).
9. Universal Shift registers – 74LS194/195.
10. 3- 8 Decoder – 74LS138.
11. 4-bit COMPARATOR -74LS85.
12. 8X1 Multiplexer– 74151 and 2X4 De-multiplexer- 74155.
118
PART - 3:
Design of the Analog Systems using Analog System Lab Starter Kit (ASLKV2010
Starter Kit).
13. Negative Feedback Amplifier and Instrumentation Amplifier.
14. Regenerative Feedback system, Astable and Monostable Multivibrator.
15. Integrators and Differentiators
16. Analog Filters
17. Low Dropout (LDO)/Linear Regulator.
119
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ECE1205) DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS LABORATORY
Pre-requisites: Digital communications
Course Objectives
 To analyze various modulation techniques.
 To verify the sampling theorem.
 To study the spectral characteristics of PAM and QAM
 Develop various algorithms
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Develop any real time application using digital modulation techniques.
 Knowledge of time division multiplexing and its importance in real time
applications.
 Create various algorithms.
Evaluate the performance of various modulations
The Experiments should be software simulated using MatLab and implemented
through Hardware.
At least Six experiments have to be implemented using DSP Processor, i.e., TMS
3206713.
1. Pulse Amplitude Modulation and demodulation.
2. Pulse Width Modulation and demodulation.
3. Pulse Position Modulation and demodulation.
4. Sampling Theorem – verification.
5. Time division multiplexing.
6. Pulse code modulation.
7. Differential pulse code modulation.
8. Delta modulation.
9. Amplitude Shift Keying (ASK)
10. Frequency shift keying.
11. Phase shift keying.
12. Differential phase shift keying.
13. Study of the spectral characteristics of PAM and QAM
120
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(EIE1124) ELECTRONIC MEASUREMENTS AND INSTRUMENTATION
Pre-requisites: Operational Amplifier Concepts
Course Objectives
 Develop an awareness to various electronic measurement Concepts
 Explain the operation and design of different electronic instruments
 Compare different ADC and DAC techniques and explain various circuits for
conversion.
 Explain the operations of frequency and time measuring instruments and
transducers.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Apply measurement and instrumentation systems for electrical and electronics
engineering.
 Design signal conditioning circuits corresponding to the measurement purposes.
 Learn different types of CRO’s and bridges to measure resistance, capacitance
and inductance.
 Design real time applications using transducers
UNIT I
Performance characteristics of instruments, static characteristics, Accuracy,
Resolution, Precision, Expected value, Errors, Sensitivity. Errors in measurement ,
Dynamic Characteristics , DC voltmeters. D’Arsonval Movement, DC Current meters,
AC volt meters and Current Meters, Range Extension /solid state and Differential
voltmeters ,AC voltmeters, Multirange extension , Thermocouple type RF ammeter ,
ohmmeter series type , shunt type , Specifications and design consideration of different
types of Digital Voltmeters ( DVMs ) - Staircase Ramp- type DVM, Dual Slope
integrating type DVM, Successive Approximation Type DVM.
UNIT II
Signal generators-Fixed and variable, AF oscillators, Standard and AF sine and
square wave signal generators, Function Generators, Square , pulse generator , Signal
121
Analyzer, Logic Analyzer, Network Analyzer, Random noise generator, sweep
generator , arbitrary waveform generator Wave analyzers , harmonic distortion wave
analyzer , spectrum analyzers Frequency counter , time and period measurement.
UNIT III
Oscilloscopes- CRT Features, vertical amplifiers, Horizontal deflection system, sweep,
trigger pulse, delay line, sync selector circuits, simple CRO, Trigger sweep CRO, dual
beam CRO, Dual trace oscilloscope, sampling oscilloscope ,storage oscilloscope,
measurement of amplitude and frequency, probes for CRO-active and passive , CRO
Specifications, High Frequency CRO‘s.
UNITIV
DC bridges- Wheatstone’s bridge, Kelvin’s bridge, AC bridges-measurement of
inductance-Maxwell’s bridge, Hay’s bridge, measurement of capacitance, schering
bridge, wien bridge, errors and precautions in using bridges, Q-meter,different
connections in Q- meter.
UNITV
Transducers-active and passive transducers-Resistance transducers , Capacitance
transducers, inductance transducers, Strain gauges transducers, LVDT transducers,
Piezo electric transducers, Resistance thermometers, Thermocouples, Measurement
of physical parameters- flow measurement, liquid level measurement , data acquisition
systems.
TEXTBOOKS
1. Electronic Measurements and Instrumentation - K.Lal Kishore, Pearson
Education, 2005
2. Electronic Instrumentation, - H.S.Kalsi, 2nd Edition ,Tata McGraw Hill, 2004.
3. Modern Electronic Instrumentation and Measurement Techniques- A.D.Helfrick
and W.D. Cooper, 5th Edition ,PHI, 2002.
REFERENCES:
1. Transducers and display systems - B.S.Sonde
2. Electronic measurements and Instrumentation – B. M. Oliver and J.M. Cage,
TMH, 2009.
3. Electrical and Electronic measurements - Shawney, Khanna Publications.
4. Introduction to Instrumentation and measurements - Robert Northrop ( CRC
press)
122
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(CMS1102) MANAGEMENT SCIENCE
Pre-requisite: Knowledge on Business Economics & Financial Analysis
Course Objectives
 Understand the principles, functions, theories and practices of different
management areas and to provide them with practical exposure to cases of
success/failure in business.
 Exposure with a systematic and critical understanding of organizational theory,
structures and design.
 Comprehend conceptual models of strategic management and to familiarize with
the tools of operations and project management.
 Gain Knowledge on the role of human relations in the management of
operations and to provide basic insights into contemporary management
practices.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Function effectively in multidisciplinary teams to accomplish a common goal of
organizations.
 Apply theories to improve the practice of management.
 Appreciate the management challenges associated with high levels of change in
the organizations.
 Develop global vision and management skills at both a strategic level and
interpersonal level.
UNIT I
Introduction to management
Concepts of management - nature, importance, and functions of management; Taylor’s
scientific management theory; Fayol’s principles of management; Mayo’s Hawthorne
experiments; Maslow’s theory of human needs; Douglas McGregor’s theory X and
theory Y; Herzberg’s two-factor theory of motivation; System and contingency
approach to management; Planning – meaning, significance, and types of plans;
Decision making and steps in decision making process; Leadership styles; Social
responsibilities of management.
123
Organizing - Meaning, and features; Process of organization; Principles of
organization; Elements of organization; Organization chart; Span of control - Graicunas
formulae; Centralisation and decentralization; Types of mechanistic and organic
structures of organisation - line organization, line and staff organization, functional
organization, committee organization, matrix organization, virtual organisation, cellular
organisation, team structure, boundaryless organization, inverted pyramid structure,
and lean and flat organization structure; Their merits, demerits and suitability.
UNIT II
Human resources management
Concepts of HRM;
Basic functions of HR manager - human resource planning (definition; objectives;
process), recruitment (definition; sources; techniques), selection (definition; process),
induction and orientation, training and development (definition; need; methods),
employee exit process, employee relations management, employee compensation and
benefits administration, job evaluation (objectives; process; methods), and
performance appraisals (objectives; process; methods).
UNIT III
Strategic management
Mission; Goals; Objectives; Policy; Strategy; Programmes; Elements of corporate
planning process - environmental scanning; value chain analysis, BCG matrix, generic
strategy alternatives, SWOT analysis, and steps in strategy formulation and
implementation; Balance score card; Capability maturity model (CMM)/ People
capability maturity model (PCMM).
UNIT IV
Operations management
Plant location; Types of plant layout; Methods of production – job, batch, and mass
production; Work study-basic procedure involved in method study and work
measurement.
Materials management
Objectives; Need for inventory control; EOQ, ABC Analysis; Purchase procedure;
Value analysis; JIT, Six sigma; TQM; Supply chain management; Stores management
and stores records.
Marketing
Functions of marketing; Marketing mix, and marketing strategies based on product life
cycle; Channels of distribution.
UNIT V
Project management – network analysis
Network analysis; Programme evaluation review technique - PERT (probability of
completing the project within given time); Critical path method - CPM (Identifying
critical path); Project cost analysis; Project crashing; Simple problems.
124
TEXT BOOK
1. Management Science by Aryasri; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill, 2009.
2. Management by James Arthur, Finch Stoner, R. Edward Freeman, and Daniel
R. Gilbert 6th Ed; Publisher: Pearson Education/Prentice Hall.
3. Principles and Practice of Management - L.M. Prasad; Publisher: Sultan
Chand Publications, New Delhi.
REFERENCES
1. Principles of Marketing: A South Asian Perspective by Kotler Philip, Gary
Armstrong, Prafulla Y. Agnihotri, and Eshan ul Haque , 2010, 13th Edition,
Publisher: Pearson Education/ Prentice Hall of India.
2. A Handbook of Human Resource Management Practice by Michael Armstrong,
2010; Publisher: Kogan Page Publishers.
3. Quantitative Techniques in Management by N.D. Vohra, 4th edition, 2010;
Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
4. Operations Management: Theory and Practice by B. Mahadevan, 2010;
Publisher: Pearson Education.
5. Strategic Management by V.S.P. Rao and V. Hari Krishna, 2010; Publisher:
Excel Books.
125
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(ECE1109) MICROPROCESSORS AND MICROCONTROLLERS
Pre-requisites: Digital fundamentals, Computer Organization
Course Objectives
 To understand characteristics and architectures of various microprocessors and
microcontrollers.
 Understand basic programming concepts and software tools
 Learn various interfacing circuits necessary for various applications
 To learn various interfacing concepts.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Demonstrate the ability to design a system, component or a process as per
needs and specifications
 Select the proper architecture for the implementation of digital designs
 Write various assembly language programs for a given task using 8086, 8051
and ARM processors.
 Design and implement microprocessor and microcontroller based systems.
UNIT I
Introduction to 8085 Microprocessor, Architecture of 8086 Microprocessor, Addressing
modes of 8086, Instruction set of 8086, Assembler directives, simple assembly
language programs, procedures, and macros. Pin diagram of 8086-Minimum mode and
maximum mode of operation.
UNIT II
Memory and I/O organization of 8086, 8255 PPI – various modes of operation and
interfacing to 8086, D/A and A/D converter to 8086 using 8255, memory interfacing to
8086.
UNIT III
Serial Communication standards, serial data transfer schemes, 8251 USART
architecture and interfacing, RS-232, IEEE 488 standards. Interrupt structure of 8086,
Interrupt Vector Table. Need for 8259 Programmable Interrupt Controller.
126
UNIT IV
Introduction to Microcontrollers, 8051 Microcontroller Architecture, I/O ports, memory
organization, counters and Timers, Serial data Input/Output, Interrupts. Addressing
modes, Instruction set of 8051, Simple programs.
Timer, serial port and Interrupts programming: Programming 8051 timers/counters,
8051 serial port programming, programming timer interrupts, programming External
hardware interrupts, programming serial communication interrupts.
UNIT V
Interfacing to 8051: A/D and D/A Converter, Stepper Motor Interface, Key Board
Interfacing, LCD Interfacing.
ARM Processor: Fundamentals, Registers, current program status register, pipeline,
Exceptions, Interrupt and the vector table.
.TEXT BOOKS
1. Microprocessors and interfacing – Douglas V. Hall, TMH, 2nd Edition, 1999.
2. The 8051 microcontrollers and Embedded systems- Mazidi and mazidi, PHI,
2000.
3. ARM System Developer’s Guide: Designing and Optimizing System
Software- Andrew N. Sloss, Dominic Symes, Chris Wright, Elsevier Inc., 2007
REFERENCES
1. Micro computer systems, The 8086/8088 Family Architecture, Programming
and Design – Y.Liu and G.A. Gibson, PHI, 2nd edition.
2. Advanced microprocessors and Peripherals – A.K.Ray and K.M.Bhurchandi,
TMH, 2000.
3. Micro Computer System 8086/8088 Family Architecture Programming and
Design – By Liu and GA Gibson PHI, 2nd Edition
4. Microcontrollers and Applications, Ajay . V. Deshmukh, TMGH,2005.
5. The 8085 Microprocessor : Architecture Programming and Interfacing –
K.Uday Kumar, B.S Umashankar, Pearson , 2008.
127
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(ECE1110) DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING
Pre-requisites: Signals and systems
Course Objectives
 To understand characteristics of discrete time signals and systems
 To analyze and process signals using various transform techniques
 To understand various factors involved in design of digital filters and role of Multi
rate Signal Processing.
 To understand the effects of finite word length implementation.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Analyze and process signals in the discrete domain and their transformation
 Design filters to suit specific applications
 Design multi rate signal processing of signals through systems.
 Analyze binary fixed point and floating-point representation of numbers and
arithmetic operations.
UNIT I
Introduction: Introduction to Digital Signal Processing. Applications of Z-Transforms :
Solution of Linear constant coefficient difference equations, Block diagram
representation of LCCD equations. System function, Frequency domain representation
of discrete time signals and systems.
Discrete Fourier series: DFS representation of periodic sequences, Relation between
Z-transform and DFS.
UNIT II
Discrete Fourier Transforms: Properties of DFT, linear convolution of sequences
using DFT, Computation of DFT.
Fast Fourier Transforms: Radix-2 decimation in time and decimation in frequency
FFT Algorithms, Inverse FFT. Composite algorithm.
UNIT III
IIR Digital Filters: Analog filter approximations- Butterworth and Chebyshev ,
comparison of Butterworth and Chebyshev filters. Design of IIR Digital filters from
analog filters, Step and Impulse invariance transformation techniques, Bilinear
transformation method. Spectral transformations (Analog to Analog).
128
Realization of IIR Filters: Direct, Canonic, Cascade, Parallel, Lattice and Ladder
forms.
UNIT IV
FIR Digital Filters : Characteristics of linear phase FIR filters and its frequency
response. Comparison of IIR and FIR filters.
Design of FIR filters : Fourier Method, Frequency Sampling method and windowing
methods: Rectangular window, Hanning window, Hamming window, Bartlett window
and Kaiser window.,
Realization of FIR Filters: Direct form, cascade realization and Linear phase
Realization.
UNIT V
Multirate Digital Signal Processing: Introduction, Down sampling, Decimation, Up
sampling, Interpolation, sampling rate conversion, Implementation of sampling rate
conversion, Applications of Multirate Signal Processing.
Finite Word Length Effects: Limit cycles, Overflow oscillations, Round-off noise in IIR
digital filters , Computational output round off noise, Methods to prevent overflow,
Tradeoff between round off and overflow noise, Measurement of coefficient
quantization effects through pole-zero movement, Dead band effects.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Digital Signal Processing : Principles, Algorithms and Applications – John
G.Proakis, D.G.Manolakis, 4th Edition, Perason/PHI, 2009.
2. Digital Signal Processing – A Pratical Approach – Emmanuel C.Ifeacher,
Barrie. W. Jervis, 2nd Edition, Pearson Education, 2009.
REFERENCES
1. Discrete Time Signal Processing – A.V.Oppenheim and R.W. Schaffer, PHI,
2009
2. Digital Signal Processing- Fundamentals and Applications – Li Tan, Elsevier,
2008.
3. Fundamentals of Digital signal Processing using MatLab- Robert J.Schilling,
Sandra L.Harris,Thomson , 2007.
4. Digital Signal Processing – S.Salivahanan, A.Vallavaraj, C.Gnanapriya,TMH,
2009.
5. Fundamentals of Digital Signal Processing - Loney Ludeman, John
Wiley,2009.
129
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective-I 3 0 3
(ITD1105) OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING THROUGH JAVA
Course Learning Objectives
 To produce object-oriented solutions to a range of standard programming
problems
 They will be able to articulate and restructure programming objectives in the
object-oriented paradigm.
 They will be informed with regard to the fundamental concepts and principles
of object-oriented programming
 They will be able to apply these concepts in any programming language.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Design/Develop Program
 Implement Program
 Test Program
 Validate Program
UNIT I
Introduction to Java
Introduction: Creation of Java, Java buzzwords, OOP Principles, Encapsulation,
Inheritance and Polymorphism,
Classes and Objects: Creating and usage objects, introducing methods,constructors,
usage of static with data and methods, usage of final with data, access control, this key
word, garbage collection, overloading methods and constructors, parameter passing,
recursion, nested classes and inner classes, String Handling
UNIT-II
Inheritance, Packages and Interfaces
Basic concepts, member access rules, usage of super key word, forms of inheritance,
method overriding, abstract classes, dynamic method dispatch, using final with
inheritance, the Object class.
Defining, Creating and Accessing a Package, Understanding CLASSPATH, importing
packages, differences between classes and interfaces, defining an interface,
implementing interface, applying interfaces, variables in interface and extending
interfaces.
130
UNIT-III
Exception Handling and Multithreading
Concepts of Exception handling, types of exceptions, usage of try, catch, throw, throws
and finally keywords, Built-in exceptions, creating own exception sub classes,
Concepts of Multithreading, differences between process and thread, thread life
cycle,creating multiple threads using Thread class, Runnable interface,
Synchronization, thread priorities, inter thread communication, daemon
threads,deadlocks, thread groups.
UNIT-IV
Event Handling, AWT Controls
Events, Event sources, Event classes, Event Listeners, Delegation event model,
handling mouse and keyboard events, Adapter classes.
AWT : Concepts of components, container, panel, window, frame, canvas, Font class,
Color class and Graphics, AWT Controls.
Applets - Concepts of Applets, differences between applets and applications,life cycle
of an applet, types of applets, creating applets, passing parameters to applets.
UNIT-V
Networking, Java Library, JDBC
Networking: Inetaddress, TCP/IP sockets, Datagrams, URL, URL connection, String
handling, java.util, java.io and java.net packages.
JDBC: Different type of Drivers, Connection establishment, Retrieving and
manipulation data from client and storing in data base.
Java Library: explore io, util, net, lang, sql, awt packages.
Introduction to Java APIs: what is API, discuss APIs in Java SS, Java EE, Java ME
TEXT BOOKS
1. The Complete Reference Java J2SE 5th Edition, Herbert Schildt, TMH
Publishing Company Ltd, NewDelhi.
2. Big Java 2nd Edition, Cay Horstmann, John Wiley and Sons.
REFERENCES
1. Java How to Program, Sixth Edition, H.M.Dietel and P.J.Dietel, Pearson
Education/PHI
2. Core Java 2, Vol 1, Fundamentals, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell,
Seventh Edition, Pearson Education.
3. Core Java 2, Vol 2, Advanced Features, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell,
Seventh Edition, Pearson Education.
4. Beginning in Java 2, Iver Horton, Wrox Publications.
5. Java, Somasundaram, Jaico.
6. Java Networking and AWT API Super Bible, Natraj Nagaratnam, Brian
Masco, Arvind Srinivasan, White Group Press
131
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech ECE–II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - I 3 0 3
(ITD1122) CLOUD COMPUTING
Course Objectives
 Knowledge of Parallel computing architectures such as vector processing, symmetric
multi processing
 Importance and Details of Service oriented architecture and Virtualization
 What are Limitations, Key Characteristics, challenges of cloud computing , Saas,
Paas,Iaas
 Different services offered by Cloud computing and procedure involved in building the
cloud networks
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
 Articulate the main concepts, key technologies, strengths, and limitations of
cloud computing and the possible applications for state-of-the-art cloud
computing
 Identify the architecture and infrastructure of cloud computing, including SaaS,
PaaS, IaaS, public cloud, private cloud, hybrid cloud, etc.
 Explain the core issues of cloud computing such as security, privacy, and
interoperability.
 Identify problems, and explain, analyze, and evaluate various cloud computing
solutions.
UNIT I
UNDERSTANDING CLOUD COMPUTING
Cloud Computing – History of Cloud Computing – Cloud Architecture – Cloud Storage
–Why Cloud Computing Matters – Advantages of Cloud Computing – Disadvantages of
Cloud Computing – Companies in the Cloud Today – Cloud Services
UNIT II
DEVELOPING CLOUD SERVICES
Web-Based Application – Pros and Cons of Cloud Service Development – Types of
Cloud Service Development – Software as a Service – Platform as a Service – Web
Services – On-Demand Computing – Discovering Cloud Services Development
Services and Tools – Amazon Ec2 – Google App Engine – IBM Clouds
132
UNIT III
CLOUD COMPUTING SECURITY ARCHITECTURE
Cloud security fundamentals-Vulnerability assessment tool for cloud- Privacy and
Security in cloud computing security architecture: Architectural Considerations-
General Issues- Trusted Cloud computing- Secure Execution Environments and
Communications- Micro-architectures; Identity Management and Access control
Identity management- Access control, Autonomic Security
UNIT IV
CLOUD COMPUTING FOR EVERYONE
Centralizing Email Communications – Collaborating on Schedules – Collaborating on
To-Do Lists – Collaborating Contact Lists – Cloud Computing for the Community –
Collaborating on Group Projects and Events – Cloud Computing for the Corporation
UNIT V
CLOUD COMPUTING CASE STUDIES
Cloud computing case studies: Google App Engine – IBM Clouds –Windows live –
Micro soft dynamic CRM- Salesforce.com CRM- App Exchange – Amazon S3 – Oracle
OBIEE
Text Books:
1. Michael Miller, Cloud Computing: Web-Based Applications That Change the
Way You Work and Collaborate Online, Que Publishing, August 2008.
2. Haley Beard, Cloud Computing Best Practices for Managing and Measuring
Processes for On-demand Computing, Applications and Data Centers in the
Cloud with SLAs, Emereo Pty Limited, July 2008.
3. Cloud Computing a Practical Approach by Anthony T.Velte, Toby J.Velte
Robert Elsenpeter, Tata Mc Graw Hill Edition 2010.
4. Gautam Shroff, Enterprise Cloud Computing: Technology, Architecture,
applications, Cambridge University Press, 2010.
5. Ronald Krutz Russell Dean Vines, Cloud Security
REFERENCES
1. Michael Miller, Cloud Computing: Web-Based Applications That Change the
Way You Work and Collaborate Online, Que Publishing, August 2008.
2. Haley Beard, Cloud Computing Best Practices for Managing and Measuring
Processes for On-demand Computing, Applications and Data Centers in the
Cloud with SLAs, Emereo Pty Limited, July 2008.
3. Gautam Shroff, Enterprise Cloud Computing: Technology, Architecture,
applications, Cambridge University Press, 2010.
4. Ronald Krutz Russell Dean Vines, Cloud Security
133
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective-I 3 0 3
(EEE1127) RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES
Course Objectives
 To inculcate the awareness of energy conservation in students
 To understand the use of renewable energy sources for electrical power
generation
 To know different energy storage methods
 To learn about environmental effects of energy conversion
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Use different renewable energy sources to produce electrical power
 Minimize the use of conventional energy sources to produce electrical energy
 Identify the fact that the conventional energy resources are depleted
 Store energy and to avoid the environmental pollution.
UNIT I
PRINCIPLES OF SOLAR RADIATION
Role and Potential of New and Renewable source, the solar energy option,
Environmental impact of solar power, Physics of the Sun, The solar constant,
Extraterrestrial and Terrestrial solar radiation, Solar radiation on titled surface,
Instruments for measuring solar radiation and sun shine, solar radiation data.
UNIT II
SOLAR ENERGY COLLECTION & APPLICATIONS
Flat Plate Collectors and Concentrating Collectors, Classification of concentrating
collectors, Orientation and Thermal analysis, advanced collectors, Solar ponds, Solar
Energy Applications - solar heating/cooling techniques, solar distillation and drying,
Photovoltaic Energy Conversion.
UNIT III
WIND ENERGY
Sources and potentials, Horizontal and Vertical axis wind mills - Types, Blade Design,
Performance characteristics, Betz criteria, Induction Generators for Wind power
Generation, MHD Generation.
UNIT IV
BIO-MASS & DEC
Principles of Bio-Conversion, Anaerobic/aerobic digestion, Types of Bio-gas Digesters,
gas yield, Combustion characteristics of bio-gas, Utilization for cooking, Economic
134
aspects.Direct Energy Conversion, Need for DEC, Principles of DEC, Carnot Cycle and
Limitations.
UNIT V
HARNESSING GEOTHERMAL ENERGY & OCEAN ENERGY
Resources of Geothermal Energy, Types of wells, Methods of harnessing the energy,
potential in India, Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion, Principles, Utilization, Setting of
OTEC plants, Thermodynamic cycles, Tidal and Wave energy: Potential and
Conversion Techniques, Mini-Hydel Power plants.
COURSE OUTCOME
After completion of this course, the student will learn basic Rules for combining
probabilities. Discrete and continuous distributions, Reliability evaluation of series,
Parallel, series-parallel and complex systems, Marokv models, Evaluation of basic
indices of generation and transmission, Distribution systems.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Non-Conventional Energy Sources by G.D.Rai, Khanna Publishers.
2. Renewable Energy Resources by Twidell and Wier, CRC Press (Taylor and
Francis).
3. Non- Conventional energy resources by B.H.Khan, Tata Mc Graw-Hill, 2006.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Renewable Energy Resources by Tiwari and Ghosal, Narosa.
2. Renewable Energy Technologies by Ramesh and Kumar, Narosa.
3. Non-Conventional Energy Systems by K Mittal, Wheeler Publishing House.
4. Renewable Energy Sources and Emerging Technologies by D.P.Kothari,
K.C.Singhal, PHI.
135
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(ECE1111) MICROWAVE ENGINEERING
Pre-requisites: Electro Magnetic theory and Transmission lines
Course Objectives
 To present a cohesive overview of the required fundamentals on Transmission
lines and Wave Propagation Theory in the case of Wave guides.
 To understand various coupling techniques in waveguides and the basic
properties of Polarization in Ferrite based materials in the case of waveguide
components.
 To introduce the multiport junction concept for splitting the microwave energy in
a desired direction.
 To get exposure on Microwave components in building a Microwave test bench
setup for measurements.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Understand the basics of wave propagation inside waveguides
 Analyze the ferrite based microwave components
 Apply the scattering parameters calculation in characterizing microwave
junctions
 Analyze various types of Microwave measurements using a Microwave test
bench
UNIT I
Microwave Transmission Lines
Introduction, Microwave Spectrum and Bands, Applications of Microwaves.
Rectangular Waveguides: Solution of Wave Equations in Rectangular coordinates.
TE/TM mode Analysis, Expression for fields, Characteristic Equation and Cut-off
Frequencies. Filter characteristics, Dominant and Degenerate Modes, Mode
Characteristics: Phase and Group Velocities, Wavelengths and Impedance Relations.
Power Transmission and Power Losses in Rectangular Waveguides. Microstrip
Lines- Introduction, Z Relations, Effective Dielectric Constant, Q Factor and Losses.
0
Illustrative Problems
136
UNIT II
Waveguide components-I
Cavity Resonators: Introduction, Rectangular Cavities, Dominant Modes and
Resonant Frequencies,Q factor and Coupling Coefficients, Illustrative
Problems.Coupling Mechanisms: Probe, Loop, Aperture types. Waveguide
Discontinuities: Waveguide Windows, Tuning Screws and Posts, Matched Loads.
Waveguide Attenuators: Different types, Resistive Card and Rotary vane
Attenuators; Waveguide Phase shifters: Types, Dielectric and Rotary vane Phase
shifters.
UNIT III
Waveguide components-II:
Ferrite materials –Composition and Characteristics, Faraday Rotation, Ferrite
Components -Isolator, Circulator, Gyrator.
Scattering Matrix: Significance, Scattering Parameters, Formulation and Properties of
S Matrix.
Waveguide Multiport Junctions: E- plane, H-Plane and Magic Tee; Directional
coupler –two hole, Bethe Hole types. S matrix calculations of Two port and Multiport
Junctions.
UNIT IV
Microwave Tubes: Limitations of Conventional tubes at Microwave frequencies,
Microwave Tubes- Classifications, 2 cavity Klystrons –Structure, Velocity Modulation
process and Applegate diagram, Bunching process, Power output and efficiency.
Reflex Klystrons-Structure, Velocity Modulation, Applegate diagram and Principle of
Working, Mode Characteristics, Power Output and Efficiency, Oscillating Modes and
output characteristics.
Traveling Wave tubes: Significance, Types of Slow wave structures, Amplification
Process, Gain considerations (Qualitative analysis only)
Microwave crossed field tubes: Classification, Cylindrical Magnetron-Structure and
characteristics, PI mode operation. Illustrative problems.
UNIT V
Microwave Solid State Devices:
Transferred Electronic Devices: Introduction, Gunn Diode-Principle, Two valley theory,
High field domain, Basic modes of operation. Avalanche transit time devices :
Introduction, Avalanche multiplication. IMPATT, TRAPATT -Principle of Operation.
Microwave Measurements:
Description of Microwave Bench – Different Blocks and their Features, Microwave
power measurement- Bolometer Method. Measurement of Attenuation, Frequency,
VSWR, Cavity Q and Impedance Measurements.
137
TEXT BOOKS
1. Microwave Devices and Circuits – by Samuel Y. Liao, Pearson,3rd
Edition,2003
2. Microwave Principles – Herbert J. Reich, J.G. Skalnik, P.F. Ordung and H.L.
Krauss, CBS Publishers and Distributors, New Delhi, 2004.
3. Foundations for Microwave Engineering – R.E. Collin, IEEE Press, John
Wiley, 2nd Edition, 2002.
REFERENCES
1. Microwave Circuits and Passive Devices – M.L. Sisodia and
G.S.Raghuvanshi, Wiley Eastern Ltd., New Age
International PublishersLtd., 1995.
2. Microwave Engineering Passive Circuits – Peter A. Rizzi, PHI, 1999.
3. Microwave Engineering – A.Das and S.K.Das, TMH, 2nd Edition, 2009.
138
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ECE1206) MICROPROCESSORS AND MICROCONTROLLERS LABORATORY
Pre-requisites: Programming concepts, Instruction sets
Course Objectives
Introducing assembly language and the required tools for programming

microprocessors and microcontrollers .
Provide knowledge required to interface various peripherals to microprocessors

and microcontrollers
Design and develop both the hardware and software for microprocessor

/microcontroller based systems.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Develop the basic skills on choosing the suitable CPU and the required peripherals
for a given application
 learnt and apply various software development tools for programming the
microprocessors and microcontrollers
 design and develop microprocessor based general purpose computer systems
 design and develop special purpose systems used in various engineering
disciplines based on microcontrollers.
1. Programs for 16 bit arithmetic operations for 8086 (using Various Addressing
Modes).
2. Program for sorting an array for 8086.
3. Program for searching for a number or character in a string for 8086.
4. Program for string manipulations for 8086.
5. Program for digital clock design using 8086.
6. Interfacing ADC and DAC to 8086 / 8051.
7. Interfacing stepper motor to 8086 / 8051.
8. Programming using arithmetic, logical and bit manipulation instructions of
8051.
9. Program and verify Timer/ Counter in 8051.
10. Program and verify Interrupt handling in 8051
11. UART Operation in 8051.
12. Communication between 8051 kit and PC.
13. Interfacing LCD to 8051.
14. Interfacing Matrix / Keyboard to 8051.
139
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ECE1207) DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING LABORATORY
Pre-requisites: Digital Signal Processing concepts
Course Objectives
Simulation and implementation on DSP processor
 To verify properties of a discrete system.
 To learn various transforms on digital signals.
 To understand the design of digital filters.
 To verify basic properties of multi rate systems.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 To apply knowledge of digital filter design for various applications.
 To analyze various signals in transform domain
 To apply multirate concepts in different areas
 To perform real time experiments on processors such as audio and speech
processing.
The following experiments are to be performed using MATLAB
1) Circular Convolution
2) Discrete Fourier Transform / Inverse Discrete Fourier Transform
3) Power Density Spectrum
4) Implementation of Filters using IIR
5) Implementation of Filters using FIR
6) Generation of Sinusoidal signal through filtering
7) Generation of DTMF Signals
8) Implementation of Decimation and Interpolation processes, I/D sampling Rate
Converters.
Getting familiarity with Simulink:
i. Features of DSP Processor Kit (DSK)
ii. Installation Procedure for DSK
iii. Introduction To Code Composer Studio
iv. Procedure to Work On CCS
140
The following Experiments are to be performed using DSP Processor Kit.
1. To Verify Linear Convolution (Assembly Language program Using 67XX
Instructions).
2. To Verify Circular Convolution.
3. Implementation of FIR (Low Pass/High Pass) using Windowing Technique.
i. Using Rectangular Window
ii. Using Triangular Window
iii. Using Kaiser Window
4. Implementation of IIR Filter (Low Pass and High pass).
5. To find The FFT of given 1-D Signal and Plot
6. To compute Power Density Spectrum(PDS) of a Sequence
7. Audio applications such as audio effects , Interpolation, Decimation effects
141
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(ECE1112) VLSI DESIGN
Pre-requisites: Electronic Devices and circuits, Digital IC Concepts
Course Objectives
 To learn the various fabrication steps of IC and come across basic electrical
properties of MOSFET.
 To study the concepts of stick diagrams and layouts with the knowledge of MOS
layers through design rules.
 To study gate level design of subsystems, integrated circuits
 To learn concepts of PLD’s ,design capture tools and CMOS testing.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Learn IC Fabrication process steps required for PMOS, NMOS,CMOS, BiCMOS
and I - V relationship.
ds ds
 Understand VLSI Design flow for fabrication of a chip , layout design rules , stick
diagrams and scaling of MOS transistor.
 Learn the time delays, driving large capacitive loads, wiring capacitance,
and design of different subsystems.
 Understand concepts of PLD’s, CMOS testing, Design Strategies, verification,
and CMOS Testing.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION: Introduction to MOS Technology – MOS, PMOS, NMOS, CMOS and
BiCMOS technologies, fabrication fundamentals: Oxidation, Lithography, Diffusion, Ion
implantation, Metallization and Encapsulation.
BASIC ELECTRICAL PROPERTIES : Basic Electrical Properties of MOS ,CMOS and
BiCMOS Circuits: I -V relationships, MOS transistor threshold Voltage, gm, gds,
ds ds
figure of merit w , Pass transistor, NMOS inverter, Various pull ups, Determination of
o
pull-up to pull-down ratio( Z / Z ) , CMOS Inverter analysis and design, BiCMOS
pu pd
inverters, Latch-up in CMOS circuits.
UNIT II
VLSI CIRCUIT DESIGN PROCESSES : VLSI Design Flow, MOS Layers, Stick
Diagrams, Design Rules and Layouts, Lambda based design rules, Contact cuts ,
CMOS Lambda based design rules, Layout Diagrams for logic gates, Transistor
142
structures, wires and vias, Scaling of MOS circuits- Scaling models, scaling factors,
scaling factors for device parameters, Limitations of Scaling.
UNIT III
GATE LEVEL DESIGN AND LAYOUT: Architectural issues, Switch logic networks:
Gate logic, Alternate gate circuit: Pseudo-NMOS , Dynamic CMOS logic. Basic circuit
concepts, Sheet Resistance R and its concept to MOS, Area Capacitance Units,
S
Calculations, The delay unit T, Inverter Delays, Driving large Capacitive Loads, Wiring
Capacitances, Fan-in and fan-out, Choice of layers.
UNIT IV
SUBSYSTEM DESIGN: Subsystem Design, Shifters, Adders, ALUs, Multipliers: Array
multiplier, Serial-Parallel multiplier, Parity generator, Comparators, Zero/One
Detectors, Up/Down Counter, Memory elements.
SEMICONDUCTOR INTEGRATED CIRCUIT DESIGN: PLDs, FPGAs, CPLDs,
Standard Cells, Programmable Array Logic, Design Approach.
UNIT V
VHDL SYNTHESIS: VHDL Synthesis, Circuit Design Flow, Circuit Synthesis,
Simulation, Layout, Design capture tools, Design Verification Tools.
CMOS TESTING : CMOS Testing, Need for testing, Test Principles, Design Strategies
for test, Over view of Chip level Test Techniques and System-level Test Techniques,
Layout Design for Improved Testability.
TEXTBOOKS
1. Essentials of VLSI circuits and systems – Kamran Eshraghian, Eshraghian
Dougles and A. Pucknell, PHI, Edition, 2005.
2. Moderan VLSI Design –Wayne Wolf, Pearson Education , 3rd Edition, 1997.
3. CMOS VLSI Design – A circuits and systems perspective, Neil H.E Weste ,
David Harris , Ayan Banerjee, pearson ,2009.
REFERENCES
1. CMOS logic circuit Design – John P. Uyemura , Springer , 2007
2. VLSI DESIGN – K.Lal Kishore , VSV Prabhakar – I.K..International ,2009
3. VLSI Design – A.Albert Raj, Latha PHI, 2008.
4. Introduction to VLSI Design- Mead and Convey , BS Publcations, 2010.
5. VLSI Design – M. Michal Vai, CRC Press, 2009.
143
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(ITD1106) COMPUTER NETWORKS
Pre-requisites: Digital communications
Course Objectives
 Understand fundamental concepts of computer networking.
 Familiarize the protocol and IEEE standards of various networks.
 Understand different routing protocols.
 Understand the concepts of Integrated and differentiated services.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Understand the Layered Architecture of Computer Networks.
 Learn various datalink protocols and algorithms
 Learn various routing protocols and algorithms.
 Apply TCP and UDP in real time applications
UNIT I
DATA COMMUNICATIONS: Components – Direction of Data flow – networks –
Components and Categories – types of Connections – Topologies –Protocols and
Standards – ISO / OSI model
Physical layer: Digital transmission, multiplexing, transmission media, circuit switched
networks, Datagram networks, virtual circuit networks, switch and Telephone networks.
UNIT II
Data link layer: Introduction, framing, Error – detection and correction – Parity – LRC
– CRC – Hamming code, flow and error control, Noiseless channels, noisy channels,
HDLC, point to point protocols. LAN - Ethernet IEEE 802.3 - IEEE 802.4 - IEEE 802.5 -
IEEE 802.11
Medium Access sub layer: Random access, Controlled access, Channalization
UNIT III
Network layer: Logical addressing, internetworking, tunneling, address mapping,
ICMP, IGMP, forwarding, Uni-cast routing protocols, multicast routing protocols.
144
UNIT IV
Transport Layer: Process to process delivery, UDP and TCP protocols, SCTP, Data
traffic, congestion, congestion control, Qos, integrated services, differentiated
services,QoS in switched networks.
UNIT V
Application Layer: Domain name space, DNS in internet, electronic mail, SMTP,,
FTP, WWW, HTTP, SNMP,network security, Cryptography.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Data Communications and Networking – Behrouz A. Forouzan , Fourth
Edition TMH,2006.
2. Computer Networks — Andrew S Tanenbaum, 4th Edition. Pearson
Education/PHI.
REFERENCES
1. Data communications and computer Networks, P.C .Gupta, PHI.
2. An Engineering Approach to Computer Networks-S.Keshav, 2nd Edition,
Pearson Education.
3. Understanding communications and Networks, 3rd Edition, W.A. Shay,
Cengage Learning.
4. Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach Featuring the Internet. James
F. Kurose & Keith W. Ross,3rd Edition, Pearson Education.
5. Larry L.Peterson and Peter S. Davie, “Computer Networks”, Harcourt Asia
Pvt. Ltd., Second Edition.
6. William Stallings, “Data and Computer Communication”, Sixth Edition,
Pearson Education, 2000.
145
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - I 3 0 3
(ECE1113) DIGITAL IMAGE PROCESSING
Pre-requisites: Digital Signal processing
Course Objectives
 To introduce fundamentals of digital image processing and study image
transforms
 To demonstrate digital image processing techniques in spatial and frequency
domains
 To study and compare various image compression algorithms
 To study advanced image analysis methods: image segmentation,
morphological image processing, & image restoration
.Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Understand the basic principles of digital image processing and perform image
transforms
 Understand and perform basic image processing methods such as Image
filtering operations, Image enhancement
 Analyze and compare various image compression techniques and their
applications
 Design and implement various algorithms for image analysis
UNIT I
Fundamentals of Image Processing: Digital Image Fundamentals, Basic steps of
Image Processing System, Sampling and Quantization of an image, relationship
between pixels, Imaging Geometry.
Image Transforms: 2 D- Discrete Fourier Transform, Discrete Cosine Transform
(DCT), Haar Transform, Hadmard Transform, Hotelling Transform and slant transform.
UNIT II
Image Enhancement: Spatial domain methods: Histogram processing, Fundamentals
of Spatial filtering, Smoothing spatial filters, Sharpening spatial filters.
Frequency domain methods: Basics of filtering in frequency domain, image
smoothing, image sharpening, Selective filtering.
146
UNIT III
Image Segmentation: Segmentation concepts, Point, Line and Edge Detection, Edge
Linking using Hough Transform, Thresholding, Region Based segmentation.
Wavelet based Image Processing: Introduction to wavelet Transform, Continuous
wavelet Transform, Discrete wavelet Transform, Filter banks, Wavelet based image
compression
UNIT IV
Image Compression: Image compression fundamentals - Coding Redundancy,
Spatial and Temporal redundancy, Compression models: Lossy and Lossless, Huffman
coding, Arithmetic coding, LZW coding, Run length coding, Bit plane coding, Transform
coding, Predictive coding, JPEG Standards.
UNIT V
Image Restoration: Image Restoration Degradation model, Algebraic approach to
restoration, Inverse Filtering, Least Mean square filters.
Morphological Image Processing: Dilation and Erosion, Opening and closing, the hit
or miss Transformation, Overview of Digital Image Watermarking Methods
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Digital Image Processing- Rafael C. Gonzalez and Richard E.Woods, 3rd
Edition, Pearson, 2008.
2. Digital Image Processing- S.Jayaraman, S Esakkirajan, T Veerakumar, TMH,
2010.
REFERENCES:
1. Digital Image Processing-William K.Pratt, 3rd Edition, John Willey, 2004.
2. Fundamentals of Digital Image Processing-A.K.Jain, PHI, 1989.
3. Digital Image Processing using MATLAB - Rafael C. Gonzalez, Richard
E.Woods and Steven L.Edding 2nd , TMH. 2010.
4. Digital Image Processing and Computer Vision – Somka, Hlavac, Boyl,
Cengage Learning, 2008.
5. Introduction to image Processing and Analysis – John C. Russ, J. Christian
Russ, CRC Press, 2010
147
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I sem L T/P/D C
Elective – I 3 0 3
(ECE1114) OPTICAL COMMUNICATIONS
Pre-requisites: Optical Physics, Communications Concepts
Course Objectives
 To learn about the basic elements of optical fiber transmission link, fiber modes,
configurations, structures and losses associated
 To know the working principles of various optical sources and photo detectors
 To analyze and design a fiber optic link for a given budget requirement
 To understand the parameters effecting the systems performance
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Demonstrate an understanding of the propagation of light in optical fiber.
 Analyze the principles governing optical sources and detectors used in optical
communications.
 Design an optical communication system for a particular application.
 Analyze optical systems for performance and utility.
UNIT I
Optical fiber communication - The general system, Advantages of optical fiber
communications. Optical fiber wave guides- Introduction, Ray theory transmission,
Total Internal Reflection, Acceptance angle, Numerical Aperture, Skew rays. Cylindrical
fibers- Modes, Vnumber, Mode coupling, Step Index fibers, Graded Index fibers. Single
mode fibers- Cut off wavelength, Mode Field Diameter, Effective Refractive Index.
Signal distortion in optical fibers- Attenuation, Absorption, Scattering and Bending
losses, Core and Cladding losses.
UNIT II
Group delay, Types of Dispersion - Material dispersion, Wave-guide dispersion,
Polarization mode dispersion, Intermodal dispersion. Pulse broadening. Optical fiber
Connectors- Connector types, Single mode fiber connectors, Connector return loss.
Fiber Splicing- Splicing techniques, Fiber alignment and joint loss- Multimode fiber
joints, single mode fiber joints.
UNIT III
Optical sources - LEDs, Structures, Materials, Quantum efficiency, Power,
Modulation, Power bandwidth product. Injection Laser Diodes- Modes, Threshold
148
conditions, External quantum efficiency, Laser diode rate equations, Resonant
frequencies. Source to fiber power launching - Output patterns, Power coupling, Power
launching, Equilibrium Numerical Aperture, Laser diode to fiber coupling
UNIT IV
Optical detectors - Physical principles of PIN and APD, Detector response time,
Temperature effect on Avalanche gain, Comparison of Photo detectors. Optical
receiver operation-fundamental receiver operation, Digital signal transmission, error
sources, Receiver configuration, Digital receiver performance, Probability of error,
Quantum limit, Analog receivers
UNIT V
Optical system design — Considerations, Component choice, Multiplexing. Point-to-
point links, System considerations, Link power budget with examples, Rise time budget
with examples. WDM - Principles, Types of WDM, Measurement of Attenuation and
Dispersion
TEXT BOOKS
1. Optical Fiber Communications – Gerd Keiser, Mc Graw-Hill International
edition, 3rd Edition, 2000.
2. Optical Fiber Communications – John M. Senior, PHI, 2nd Edition, 2002.
RERFERENCES
1. Fiber Optic Communications – D.K. Mynbaev , S.C. Gupta and Lowell L.
Scheiner, Pearson Education, 2005.
2. Text Book on Optical Fibre Communication and its Applications – S.C.Gupta,
PHI, 2005.
3. Fiber Optic Communication Systems – Govind P. Agarwal , John Wiley, 3rd
Ediition, 2004.
4. Fiber Optic Communications – Joseph C. Palais, 4th Edition, Pearson
Education, 2004.
149
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I sem L T/P/D C
Elective-I 3 0 3
(EEE1119) ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS AND FUZZY LOGIC
Course Objectives
 To cater the knowledge of Neural Networks and Fuzzy Logic Control and use
these for controlling real time systems.
 To expose the students to the concepts of feed forward neural networks and
about feedback neural networks.
 To teach about the concept of fuzziness involved in various systems and
comprehensive knowledge of fuzzy logic control and to design the fuzzy
control
 To learn the basic difference between the Fuzzy Logic and Neural Networks
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 The concepts of feed forward neural networks and learning and
understanding of feedback neural networks.
 Concept of fuzziness involved in various systems and fuzzy set theory.
 Comprehensive knowledge of fuzzy logic control and adaptive fuzzy logic.
 Adequate knowledge of application of fuzzy logic control to real time systems
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO NEURAL NETWORKS
Introduction, Humans and Computers, Biological Neuron and organization of the brain,
Biological and Artificial Neuron Models, Hodgkin-Huxley Neuron Model, Integrate-and-
Fire Neuron Model, Spiking Neuron Model, Characteristics of ANN, McCulloch-Pitts
Model and Design of logic gates, Historical Developments, Potential Applications of
ANN.
ESSENTIALS OF ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS
Artificial Neuron Model, Operations of Artificial Neuron, Types of Neuron Activation
Function, ANN Architectures, Classification Taxonomy of ANN – Connectivity, Neural
Dynamics (Activation and Synaptic), Learning Strategy (Supervised, Unsupervised,
Reinforcement), Learning Rules, Types of Application.
150
Unit II
SINGLE LAYER FEED FORWARD NEURAL NETWORKS
Introduction, Perceptron Models: Discrete, Continuous and Multi-Category, Training
Algorithms: Discrete and Continuous Perceptron Networks, Perceptron Convergence
theorem and concepts, Limitations of the Perceptron Model, Applications.
MULTILAYER FEED FORWARD NEURAL NETWORKS
Credit Assignment Problem, Generalized Delta Rule, Derivation of Back propagation
(BP) Training, Summary of Back propagation Algorithm, Learning Difficulties and
Improvements.
Unit III
ASSOCIATIVE MEMORIES
Paradigms of Associative Memory, Pattern Mathematics, Hebbian Learning, General
Concepts of Associative Memory (Associative Matrix, Association Rules, Hamming
Distance, The Linear Associator, Matrix Memories, Content Addressable Memory),
Bidirectional Associative Memory (BAM) Architecture, BAM Training Algorithms:
Storage and Recall Algorithm, BAM Energy Function, Architecture of Hopfield Network:
Discrete and Continuous versions, Storage and Recall Algorithm, Stability Analysis,
Capacity of the Hopfield Network, Applications.
Unit IV
CLASSICAL AND FUZZY SETS
Introduction to classical sets - properties, Operations and relations; Fuzzy sets,
Operations, properties, fuzzy relations, membership functions.
Fuzzy Logic System Components
Fuzzification, Membership value assignment, development of rule base and decision
making system, Defuzzification to crisp sets, Defuzzification methods.
UNIT V
APPLICATIONS
Neural network applications: Process identification, control, fault diagnosis and load
forecasting.
Fuzzy logic applications: Fuzzy logic control, Design and Analysis
TEXT BOOKS
1. Neural Networks, Fuzzy logic, Genetic algorithm - synthesis and applications by
Rajasekharan and Rai, PHI Publications.
2. Artificial neural networks by B.Yegnarayana, PHI publications.
151
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Neural Networks by James A Freeman and Davis Skapura, Pearson Education,
2002.
2. Neural Networks by Simon Hakins , Pearson Education
3. Neural Engineering by C.Eliasmith and CH.Anderson, PHI
4. Neural Networks and Fuzzy Logic System by Bart Kosko, PHI Publications.
5. Introduction to Artificial Neural Systems by J.M.Zurada, Jaico Publishing House.
6. Introduction to Neural Networks using MATLAB 6.0 by S.N.Sivanandam,
S.Sumathi, S.N.Deepa, TMH, 2006.
152
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective-II 3 0 3
(MED1164) ELEMENTS OF NANO TECHNOLOGY
Course Objectives
 To understand the size dependent physical properties of materials with nano
dimensions
 To learn the principles of various preparation methods of nano materials
 To know the different characterization techniques of nano materials and
related instruments
 To study the basic electronic devices at nano scale.
Course Outcomes
After completing this course the student will be able to
 Realize and explain that the properties of nano materials are size dependent
and vary from corresponding bulk materials
 Demonstrate the skills required to prepare some of the nano materials in the
laboratory
 Characterize and study the properties with respect to their size and shapes.
 Appreciate the applications of nano electronic devices and understand their
basic principles.
UNIT I
Introduction Nano scale, Definition of Nano technology, Consequences of the Nano
scale for technology and society. Beyond Moore’s Law. Nano-scale 1D to 3D
structures; Technologies for the Nanoscale; Nano-scale fabrications; Nano
manipulation, Nano lithography.
UNIT II
Nano scale Materials and Applications Nano composites; Nano-scale Electronics;
Safety issues with nanoscale powders; Quantum wells, wires, dots and nanoparticles;
Nano scale bio and medical applications; Applications in energy, informatics, medicine,
etc.
UNIT III
Length scales, top-down and bottom-up approaches to nanotechnology. Common
growth methods.Vapour-solid-liquid. Properties of selected Nano materials, including
carbon Nano tubes, other carbon based materials and metallic Nano clusters
153
UNIT IV
Scanning tunnelling microscopy and spectroscopy, Atomic and molecular manipulation
– lateral manipulation and 2D quantum corrals, vertical manipulation, 1D quantum
structures, tip induced effects, Ullmann process.
UNIT V
Electron and ion sources, Field-ion microscope and atom-probe. Focused Ion Beam
machines. High-resolution electron microscopy including TEM and aberration corrected
TEM. Lithography, X-Ray, proton beam, microbeam techniques.
TEXTBOOKS
1. Jacob N. IsraelachviliInter molecular and Surface Forces, Second Edition:
With Applications to Colloidal and Biological Systems Colloid Science
2. Dietmar Mobius and Reinhard Miller. Organized Monolayers and Assemblies:
Structure, Processes and Function,Elsevier Science 2004
3. Michael Rieth Nano Engineering in Science & Technology : An introduction to
the world of nano design World Scientific Publishing Co., Inc 2003
4. K. Holmberg, B. Jonsson, B. Kronberg, B. Lindman, Surfactants and
Polymers in Aqueous Solution Wiley 2004.
5. Raoul Zana Dynamics of Surfactant Self-Assemblies: Micelles,
Microemulsions, Vesicles and Lyotropic Phases CRC Publisher.
6. Sergey Edward Lyshevski, Nano- and Micro-Electromechanical Systems:
Fundamentals of Nano- and Microengineering, 2005.
7. Lyklema J,Fundamentals of Interface and Colloid Science –Academic Press,
8. Z.L Wang Characterization of nanophase materials – Wiley-VCH,2000.
9. G. Schmidt Nanoparticles: From theory to applications –, Wiley 2004.
154
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective-II 3 0 3
(CED1147) DISASTER MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives
 Understand the difference between a hazard and disaster
 Know about various disasters and their impacts
 Understand Different approaches of disaster risk reduction
 Understand Disaster risks in India
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Acquire the knowledge disaster Management
 Understand the vulnerability of ecosystem and infrastructure due to a
disaster
 Acquire the knowledge of Disaster Management Phases
 Understand the hazard and vulnerability profile of India
UNIT I
Introduction to disaster
Concepts and definitions (Disaster, Hazard, Vulnerability, Resilience, Risks)
UNIT II
Disasters: Classifications, Causes, Impacts (including social, economic, political,
environment, health, psychosocial, etc.)
Differential impacts-in terms of caste, class, gender, age, location, disability Global
trends in disasters. Urban disaster, pandemics, complex emergencies, Climate
change
UNIT III
Approaches to disaster Risk reduction
Disaster cycle-its analysis, phase, Culture of safety, prevention, mitigation and
preparedness, community based DRR, Structural measures, roles and responsibilities
of community. Panchayati Raj Institutions/Urban Local Bodies (PRIs/ULBs), states,
center and other stake-holders.
UNIT IV
Inter-relationship between Disaster and Development
Factors affecting Vulnerabilities, differential impacts, impact of development projects
such as dams, embankments, change in land-use etc. Climate change Adaption.
Relevance of indigenous knowledge, appropriate technology and local resources.
155
UNIT V
Disaster Risk Management in India
Hazard and vulnerability profile of India
Components of Disaster relief: Water, food, sanitation, shelter, health, waste
management
Institutional arrangements (Mitigation, Response and Preparedness, DM Act Policy,
Other related polices, plan, programmes and legislation)
Project Work :( Field Work, Case Studies)
The project/fieldwork is meant for students to understand vulnerabilities and to work on
reducing disaster risks and to build a culture of safety. Projects must be conceived
creatively based on the geographic location and hazard.
Suggested Reading list:
1. Alexander David, Introduction in ‘Confronting Catastrophe’, oxford University
press, 2000
2. Andharia J. Vulnerability in disaster Discourse, JTCDM, Tata Institute of Social
Sciences working paper no.8, 2008
3. Blaikie, P, Cannon T, Davis I, Wisner B 1997. At Risk Natural Hazards,
Peoples’ Vulnerability and Disaster, Rutledge.
4. Coppola P Damon, 2007. Introduction to International Disaster Management.
5. Carter, Nick 1991.Disaster Management: A Disaster Manager’s Handbook.
Asian Development Bank, Manila Philippines.
6. Cuny,F.1983. Development and Disasters, Oxford University Press
7. Govt.of India; Disaster Management Act 2005,Government of India, New Delhi.
156
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective-II 3 0 3
(ITD1107) OPERATING SYSTEMS
Pre-requisites:
Course Objectives:
 Analyze the tradeoffs inherent in operating system design.
 Summarize the various approaches in solving the problem of mutual exclusion in
an operating system.
 Evaluate the trade-offs in terms of memory size (main memory, cache memory,
secondary memory) and processor speed.
 Demonstrate disk storage strategies, file strategies and analyze the system
protection and security.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
 Identify the System calls, interrupts and process scheduling of any GOS.
 Write application keeping Concurrency and synchronization
Semaphores/monitors, shared memory in mind
 Design new deadlock free and efficient memory management schemes for a
GOS.
 Explain RAID, file systems facilities and protection and securityof any GOS.
UNIT I
Computer System and Operating System Overview: Overview of computer operating
systems operating systems functions protection and security distributed systems
special purpose systems operating systems structures and systems calls operating
systems generation.
Process Management – Process concepts threads, scheduling-criteria algorithms,
their evaluation, Thread scheduling.
UNIT II
Concurrency : Process synchronization, the critical- section problem, Peterson’s
Solution, synchronization Hardware, semaphores, classic problems of synchronization,
monitors, Synchronization examples, atomic transactions.
157
Memory Management : Swapping, contiguous memory allocation, paging, structure of
the page table , segmentation, virtual memory, demand paging, page-Replacement,
algorithms.
UNIT III
Principles of deadlock – system model, deadlock characterization, deadlock
prevention, detection and avoidance, recovery form deadlock.
File system Interface- the concept of a file, Access Methods, Directory structure, File
system mounting, file sharing, protection.
UNIT IV
File System implementation- File system structure, file system implementation,
directory implementation, allocation methods, free-space management, efficiency and
performance, case studies. UNIX, Linux, Windows.
Mass-storage structure overview of Mass-storage structure, Disk structure, disk
attachment disk scheduling, swap-space management, RAID structure, stable-storage
implementation, Tertiary storage structure.
UNIT V
Protection : Protection, Goals of Protection, Principles of Protection, Domain of
protection Access Matrix, Implementation of Access Matrix, Access control, Revocation
of Access Rights, Capability- Based systems, Language – Based Protection.
Security- The Security problem, program threats, system and network threats
cryptography as a security tool, user authentication, implementing security defenses,
firewalling to protect systems and networks, computer –security classifications, case
studies UNIX, Linux, Windows.
TEXTBOOKS
1. Operating System Concepts- Abraham Silberchatz, Peter B. Galvin, Greg Gagne 7th
Edition, John Wiley.
2. Operating systems- A Concept based Approach-D.M.Dhamdhere, 2nd Edition, TMH
REFERENCES
1. Operating Systems’ – Internal and Design Principles Stallings, Fifth Edition–2005,
Pearson education/PHI
2. Operating System A Design Approach-Crowley, TMH.
3. Modern Operating Systems, Andrew S Tanenbaum 2nd edition Pearson/PHI.
158
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-II 3 0 3
(ECE1115) RADAR SYSTEMS
Pre-requisites: Communication Fundamentals
Course Objectives
 Understanding of the components of a radar system and their relationship to
overall system performance, the radar operating environment and techniques
used to confront it, and top level measures of performance.
 Understanding basic detection theory as applies to radar.
 Understanding the concepts of the matched filter, ambiguity functions, and other
aspects of waveform with noise.
 Understanding radar measurements, associated quality, and the fundamentals
of radar tracking.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Describe radars and demonstrate the factors affecting the radar performance
using radar range equation
 Analyze different types of radar systems to assess their performance
 Explain the processing of radar signals and analyze the performance of simple
tracking radar systems.
 Analyze different types of radar receivers, effects of the noise interference on
radar systems and understand the configuration of electronic
UNIT I
Basics of Radar: Introduction, Radar block diagram and operation, Maximum
Unambiguous Range, Simple form of Radar Equation, , Radar frequencies and
Applications. Prediction of Range Performance, Minimum detectable Signal, Receiver
Noise, Modified Radar Range Equation, Illustrative Problems.
Radar Equation : SNR, Envelope Detector-False Alarm Time and Probability,
Integration of Radar Pulses, Radar Cross Section of Targets (simple targets: sphere,
cone–sphere), Transmitter Power , PRF and Range Ambiguities. Systems Losses
(qualitative treatment) Illustrative Problems.
159
UNIT II
CW and Frequency Modulated Radar: Doppler Effect, CW Radar – Block Diagram ,
Isolation between Transmitter and receiver , Non zero IF Receiver , Receiver
Bandwidth Requirements, Applications of CW Radar. Illustrative Problems.
FM-CW Radar: Range and Doppler Measurement, Block Diagram and Characteristics
(Approaching/ Receding Targets), FM-CW altimeter, Multiple Frequency CW Radar.
UNIT III
MTI and Pulse Doppler Radar: Introduction, Principle, MTI Radar with - Power
Amplifier Transmitter and Power Oscillator Transmitter, Delay Line Cancellers – Filter
Characteristics, Blind Speeds, Double Cancellation, Staggered PRFs. Range Gated
Doppler Filters. MTI Radar Parameters, Limitations to MTI Performance, MTI versus
Pulse Doppler Radar.
Tracking Radar: Tracking with Radar, Sequential Lobing, Conical Scan, Monopulse
Tracking Radar – Amplitude Comparison Monopulse (one- and two- coordinates),
Phase Comparison Monopulse. Tracking in Range, Acquisition and Scanning Patterns.
Comparison of Trackers.
UNIT V
Detection of Radar Signals in Noise: Introduction, Matched Filter Receiver –
Response Characteristics and Derivation, Correlation Function and Cross-correlation
Receiver, Efficiency of Non-matched Filters, Matched Filter with Non-white Noise.
Radar Receivers – Noise Figure and Noise Temperature. Displays – types. Duplexers
– Branch type and Balanced type, Circulators as Duplexers. Introduction to Phased
Array Antennas – Basic Concepts, Radiation Pattern, Beam Steering and Beam Width
changes, Applications, Advantages and Limitations.
Electronic Warfare: Introduction to ESM, ECM and ECCM systems.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Radar Systems – Merrill I. Skolnik, TMH Special Indian Edition,
2nd ed., 2007.
2. Radar Principles – Peebles, Jr., P.Z., Wiley, New York, 1998.
REFERENCES
1. Introduction to Radar Systems – Merrill I. Skolnik, 3rd ed., TMH, 2001.
2. Radar : Principles, Technology, Aplications – Byron Edde, Pearson Education,
2004.
160
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-II 3 0 3
(CSE1130) RELATIONAL DATA BASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Pre-requisites: Basic Computing Knowledge
Course Objectives
 To present an introduction to database management systems (DBMS) and
relational data model.
 To provide an emphasis on how to organize, maintain and retrieve
information efficiently and effectively from a DBMS.
 To introduce the concepts of transactions and transaction processing
 To present the issues and techniques relating to concurrency in multi-user
database environments.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Understand the fundamental concepts of database management. These
concepts include aspects of database design, database languages, and
database-system implementation.
 The students will be able to design and query databases, as well as
understand the internals of databases.
 Define basic functions of DBMS & RDBMS.
 Describe database development process.
 Apply the Relational Database Model to understand the Logical and Physical
aspects of the DBMS architecture.
 Analyze database models & entity relationship models.
UNIT I
Introduction to Databases and Database Management System - Database system
Applications - Advantages of DBMS over File System - Data Models – Instances and
schema - View of Data - Database Languages -DDL-DML - Database Users and
Administrator - Database System Structure.
UNIT II
Database Design and ER diagrams – Attributes and Entity Sets – Relationships and
Relationship Sets – Constraints - Keys - Design Issues - Entity-Relationship Diagram-
Weak Entity Sets - Extended E-R Features - Database Design with ER model -
Database Design for Banking Enterprise
161
UNIT III
Introduction to the Relational Model – Structure of RDBMS - Integrity Constraints over
Relations – Enforcing Integrity Constraints – Querying Relational Data - Relational
Algebra and Calculus.
Introduction to SQL- Data Definition commands, Data Manipulation Commands, Basic
Structure, Set operations Aggregate Operations - Join operations - Sub queries and
correlated queries, SQL functions , views ,Triggers.
UNIT IV
Functional Dependencies– Introduction , Basic Definitions, Trivial and Non trivial
dependencies, closure of a set of dependencies, closure of attributes, irreducible set of
dependencies- Schema Refinement in Database Design- Problems Caused by
Redundancy – Decompositions – Problem Related to Decomposition –- Lossless Join
Decomposition – Dependency Preserving Decomposition - FIRST, SECOND, THIRD
Normal Forms – BCNF.
UNIT V
Transaction concept- Transaction state- Implementation of atomicity and Durability-
Concurrent executions – Serializability, Recoverability
File Organization – Organization of records in file - Data Dictionary Storage – Indexing
and Hashing – Basic Concepts , Ordered Indices, B+Tree Index files.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Database System Concepts, Silberschatz, Korth , Fifth Edition, McGraw hill (
1,2,3 & 5 Units)
2. Database Management Systems, Raghuramakrishnan, Johannes Gehrke,
TATA Mc Graw Hill(1,2,3 & 5 Units)
3. Introduction to Database Systems, C.J.Date, Pearson Education (4th Unit)
REFERENCES
1. Fundamentals of Database Systems, Elmasri Navrate Pearson Education
2. Data base Systems design, Implementation, and Management, Peter Rob &
Carlos Coronel 7th Edition.
162
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I sem L T/P/D C
Elective-II 3 0 3
(ECE 1116) SPEECH PROCESSING
Pre-requisites: Signal Processing
Course Objectives
 To learn the fundamentals of Speech Production and Perception and modeling
 To Comprehensively learn the Signal Processing techniques applied for Speech,
 To Understand building blocks of Speech Processing for Speaker Recognition
 To learn various Speech Technologies related to Accent and Emotion Recognition.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Study the concatenated tube models of Speech Production and represent Vocal
tract as a filter and its transfer function determination .
 Find the fundamental frequency (pitch) and formant estimation using signal
processing methods like average zero crossing rate, auto correlation function
 Understand the Linear prediction analysis and coding techniques.
Know the working of Speech technological applications
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO SPEECH SIGNAL PROCESSING :
Production and Classification of Speech Sounds : Introduction , Anatomy and
physiology of Speech Production, Spectrographic analysis of speech, Categorization o
Speech sounds, Prosody, Speech perception.
Acoustics of Speech production: Sound propagation, Uniform Lossless Tube
example, Effects of Radiation at the lips, Vocal tract transfer function for vowels, Effect
of Nasal coupling, Excitation of sound in Vocal tract, Models based upon acoustic
theory.
Lossless Tube models : Wave propagation in Concatenated Lossless Tube ,
Boundary Conditions, Transfer functions of Lossless tube models.
Digital Models for Speech signals : Transfer functions of Vocal tract, Radiation,
Excitation, The complete model
UNIT II
DSP TECHNIQUES FOR SPEECH ANALYSIS:
Time-Dependent processing of speech: Short-time energy and Average magnitude
,Role of Windows, Short-time average zero crossing Rate, Short-Time Auto
correlation function, Pitch Period estimation using the Auto correlation function.
163
Short-Time Fourier Analysis :Practical consideration in the design of Digital Filter
Banks, Filter Bank design using IIR filters, Fiter Bank design using FIR filter,
Spectrographic Displays, Pitch detection.
UNIT III
SPEECH PROCESSING METHODS
Homomorphic Signal Processing of speech :Homomorphic systems for convolution,
Complex Cepstrum of Speech,
Properties of the Complex Cepstrum, Computational considerations, Pitch detection,
Formant detection, HomomorphicVocoder.
UNIT IV
SPEECH SIGNAL MODELLING:
Speech Coding :Scalar Quantization- Instantaneous and Adaptive Quantization ;
Vector Quantization – Approach, Use in Speech Transmission.
Linear Prediction Analysis :Basic Principles of linear predictive analyses, Prediction
error signal , Relation of LP analysis to lossless Tube models, Synthesis of speech
from LP parameters ; Applications of LPC parameters -Pitch detection using LPC
parameters, Formant analysis using LPC parameters, LPC Vocoder
UNIT V :
SPEECH TECHNOLOGIES:
Speech Recognition and understanding : Introduction , Common Feature Vectors;
Deterministic Sequence Recognition – Linear Time Warp, Dynamic Time Warp ;
Statistical Sequence Recognition –Hidden Markov Model ; Phonological models,
Language models, Decoding with Acoustic and Language models, A complete system ,
Accepting realistic input
Speaker Recognition: Introduction,Spectral features – Mel Cepstrum, Sub Cepstrum
; Speaker Recognition Algorithms – Gaussian Mixture Models (GMM) , Speaker
Identification and Speaker Verification using GMM .
TEXT BOOKS
1. L.R.Rabiner and R.W.Schafer : Digital Processing of Speech Signals,
Pearson Education, 2002
2. Thomas F Quateri, Discrete time Speech Signal Processing , Principles and
Practice, Pearson Education,2002
3. Ben Gold, Nelson Morgan,Speech and Audio Signal Processing John Wiley
and Sons ,2002
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. LI DENG,DOUGLAS O’ SHAUGHNESSY, Speech Processing, Marcel
Dekker Inc
2. Digital speech ,A.M.KONDOZ, Second Edition, John Wiley & Sons.
3. Dellar and Proakis, Digital Speech processing..
164
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-III 3 0 3
(ECE1117) DSP PROCESSORS AND ARCHITECTURE
Pre-requisites: Digital Signal Processing
Course Objectives
 To study the Architectural details of TMS320C54xx DSPs and the concepts
involved in execution control and pipelining
 To analyze the importance of numeric formats and sources of errors in DSP
implementation
 To understand the concepts of Memory & I/O interfacing
 Develop various algorithms
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Compare various architectures
 Design systems and role sampling rate
 Interface different devices to the processor.
 Design and implement real time signal processing algorithms and applications
based on DSP processors.
UNIT I
Introduction to DSP Processors: Digital Signal Processors, various architectures:
VLIW Architecture, Multiprocessor DSPs, SHARC, SIMD, MIMD, RISC and CISC.
Execution Control and Pipelining: Hardware looping, Interrupts, Stacks, Relative
Branch support, Pipelining and Performance, Pipeline Depth, Interlocking, Branch
effects, Interrupt effects, Pipeline Programming models.
UNIT II
Typical real-time DSP systems: Data representations and arithmetic, Analog - to –
digital conversion process, Uniform and non-uniform quantization and encoding,
Oversampling in A/D conversion, Digital to analog conversion process: signal recovery,
the DAC, Anti-imaging filtering, Oversampling in D/A conversion, Analog I/O interface
for real-time DSP systems, sources of errors in DSP implementation, real time
implementation considerations.
165
UNIT III
Fixed-Point DSP processors: Architecture of TMS 320C 5X, C54X Processors,
addressing modes, Memory space of TMS320C54XX Processors, Program Control,
TMS320C54XX instructions and Programming, On-Chip Peripherals, Interrupts of
TMS320C54XX processors, Pipeline operation of TMS320C54XX Processors, speed
issues.
UNIT IV
Memory and I/O Interfacing: External bus interfacing signals, Memory interface,
Parallel I/O interface: Programmed I/O, Interrupts and I/O, Direct memory access
(DMA). Hardware interfacing, Multichannel Buffered Serial Port (McBSP), McBSP
Programming, CODEC interface circuit.
UNIT V
Implementation of DSP algorithms: The Q-notation, FIR Filters, IIR Filters,
Interpolation Filters, Decimation Filters, PID Controller, Adaptive Filters, 2-D Signal
Processing.
An FFT Algorithm for DFT Computation, A Butterfly Computation, Overflow and
scaling, Bit-Reversed index generation, An 8-Point FFT implementation on the
TMS320C54XX.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Digital Signal Processing – Avtar Singh and S. Srinivasan, Thomson
Publications, 2004.
2. Digital Signal Processing A Practical approach, Second Edition, Emmanuel
C.Ifeachor,Barrie W Jervis, Pearson Publications. 2002.
REFERENCES
1. Digital Signal processors Architectures, implementations and Applications-
Sen M.Kuo, Woon-Seng S.Gan, Pearson
Publications, 2009.
2. Digital Signal Processors, Architecture, Programming and Applications – B.
Venkata Ramani and M. Bhaskar,TMH, 2004.
3. Digital Signal Processing – Jonatham Stein, John Wiley, 2005.
4. DSP Processor Fundamentals, Architectures and Features – Lapsley , S.
Chand, 2000.
5. “DSP Applications with TMS 320 Family”, K. Shin ,Prentice Hall, 1987.
166
VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-III 3 0 3
(ECE1118) TELECOMMUNICATION SWITCHING SYSTEMS
Pre-requisites: Analog and Digital Communications
Course Objectives
 To study about the basic concepts of telephony switching.
 To learn about the telecommunication networks.
 To learn about the telecommunication signaling.
 To learn about the packet switching and high speed networks.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Design a telecommunication switching system.
 Analyze the performance of telecommunication network.
 Implement the signaling techniques in communication networks
 Analyze the different routing protocols and high speed networks
UNIT I
Switching Systems: Evolution of Telecommunications; Basics, functions, types and
design parameters of switching system. 100/1000/10,000 Line exchange. Principles of
Crossbar switching; A general trunking; Electronic and digital switching systems.
UNIT II
Telecommunications Traffic: Introduction; Unit of traffic; congestion; Traffic
measurement; Mathematical model; Lost call systems-Theory; Traffic performance;
Loss systems in Tandem; Use of traffic tables;Queing systems-the second Erlang
distribution ; Probability of delay; Finite queue capacity; some other useful results;
Systems with a single server; queues in tandem; Delay tables; Applications of delay
formulae.
Switching Networks: Introduction; Single stage networks; Grading Principles; Design
of progressive grading; other forms of gradings; Traffic capacity of Grading;
Applications of grading; Link systems-grading; Two, Three and four stage networks;
Grades of service of link systems.
Unit III
167
Time Division switching: Basics of time division space switching; basics of time
division time switching; Time multiplexed space switch; Time multiplexed time switch;
Combination switching; Three stage Combination switching.
Control of switching systems; call processing functions; sequence of operations; signal
exchanges; State transition diagrams; common control; reliability; availability and
security ; Stored program control.
Unit IV
Signaling: Introduction;Customer Line signaling; Audio frequency Junction and trunk
circuits; FDM carrier systems-Outband signaling; Inband (VF) signaling; PCM
signaling; Inter Register signaling; Common channel signaling principles- General
signaling networks; CCITT signaling system number 6; CCITT signaling system
number 7; High level data link control; Signal units; The signaling information field.
Unit V
Packet Switching: Introduction; Statistical multiplexing; Local and wide Area
networks- network topologies and their comparison; Optical fiber Networks; Large
scale networks-General; Datagrams and virtual circuits; Routing; Flow control;
Standards; Frame relay;
Broadband networks-general; Asynchronous Transfer mode; ATM switches; ISDN;
Cellular radio networks; private networks; charging; Routing-general, automatic,
Alternative routing.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Telecommunication Switching and Traffic Networks, J.E Flood, Pearson
Eduction, 2006.
2. Telecommunication Switching system and Networks, Tyagarajan
Viswanathan Prentice hall of India Pvt Ltd., 2006
REFERENCES
1. Digital Telephony, John C Bellamy, John Wiley International Student Edition,
3rd Edition,2000.
2. Data Communications and Networking, Behrouz A. Ferouzan, TMH, 2nd
Edition,2000.
3. Introduction to Data Communications and Networking, Tomasi, Pearson
Education, 1st Edition, 2007.
168
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-III 3 0 3
(ECE1119) SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
Pre-requisites: Antennas, Microwave and Communication Concepts
Course Objectives
 Know, design understand the construction and principles of Satellites used for
communications
 Know the tracking techniques of satellites
 Learn about various multiple accessing techniques
 Know about the application of satellites in GPS and other applications
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Understand the communication satellite mechanics and know about the satellite
internal sub systems for communication applications
 Design the power budget for satellite links
 Know about the principles of GPS
 Understand various constellations of satellite and their applications
UNIT I
Introduction: Origin of Satellite Communications, Historical Back-ground, Basic
Concepts of Satellite Communications, Frequency allocations for Satellite Services,
Applications, Future Trends of Satellite Communications.
Orbital Mechanics and Launchers: Orbital Mechanics, Look Angle determination,
Orbital perturbations, Orbital determination, Launches and Launch vehicles, Orbital
effects in communication systems performance.
UNIT II
Satellite Subsystems: Attitude and Orbit control system, Telemetry, Tracking,
Commanding and Monitoring, Power Systems, Communication Subsystems, Satellite
antennas, Equipment reliability and Space qualification.
UNIT III
Multiple Access: Frequency Division Multiple Access (FDMA), Intermodulation,
calculation of C/N. Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA), Frame structure, Examples.
Satellite Switched TDMA Onboard processing, DAMA, Code Division Multiple Access
(CDMA), Spread Spectrum Transmission and Reception.
169
UNIT IV
Satellite Link Design: Basic transmission theory, system noise temperature and G/T
ratio, Design of down links, Uplink design, Design of satellite links for specified C/N,
System design examples. Earth Station Technology: Introduction, Transmitters,
Receivers, Antennas, Tracking systems, Terrestrial Interface, Primary Power test
methods.
UNIT V
Low Earth Orbit and Geo-Stationary Satellite Systems:
Orbit considerations, Coverage and Frequency Consideration, Delay and Throughput
considerations, Systems considerations, Operational NGSO Constellation Designs.
Satellite Navigation and Global Positioning System: Radio and Satellite Navigation,
GPS Position Location principles, GPS Receivers and Codes, Satellite Signal
Acquisition, GPS Navigation Message, GPS Signal Levels, GPS Receiver Operation,
GPS C/A code accuracy, Differential GPS.
TEXT BOOKS
1. atellite Communications- Timothy Pratt, Charles Bostian and Jeremy Allnutt,
WSE, Wiley Publications, 2nd Edition, 2003.
2. Satellite Communications Engineering- Wilbur L. Pritchard, Robert A Nelson
and Henri G. Suyderhoud, 2nd Edition, Pearson Publications, 2003.
REFERENCE
1. Satellite Communications: Design Principles- M. Richharia, B S publications,
2nd Edition, 2003.
2. Satellite Communication- D.C Agarwal, Khanna Publications, 5th Edition.
3. Fundamentals of Satellite Communications- K.N. Raja Rao, PHI, 2004
4. Satellite Communications- Dennis Roddy, McGraw Hill, 4th Edition, 2009
170
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ECE1208) MICROWAVE ENGINEERING LABORATORY
Pre-requisites: Microwave Concepts
Course Objectives
 To study the performance of microwave oscillators
 To measure the characteristic parameters of Microwave components
 To calculate scattering parameters of microwave junctions
 To analyze various parameters of Microwave components
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Characterize microwave oscillator sources.
 Measure and analyze performance characteristics of microwave components
 Analyze the scattering parameters of microwave junctions
 Design a microwave communication link
Minimum of 10 experiments to be conducted
 Reflex Klystron Characteristics.
 Gunn Diode Characteristics.
 Attenuation Measurement.
 Directional Coupler Characteristics.
 VSWR Measurement.
 Impedance and Frequency Measurement.
 Waveguide parameters measurement.
 Scattering parameters of Circulator.
 Scattering parameters of Magic Tee.
 Radiation Pattern Measurement.
 Scattering parameters of E-Plane Tee.
 Scattering parameters of H-Plane Tee.
 Characteristics of Isolator.
 Directivity measurement.
171
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ECE1209) ECAD AND VLSI LABORATORY
Pre-requisites: Electronic Devices and circuits, Digital IC Concepts
Course Objectives
 To learn hardware description language and modeling of combinational circuits.
 To learn hardware description language and modeling of sequential circuits.
 To design digital circuits using CAD tools.
 To learn the use of CAD tools for digital circuit design.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Apply switching theory to the solution of logic design problems
 Understand the logical properties of flip-flops and design counters, adders,
sequence detectors using HDL .
 Understand the flow of mentor graphic tools for digital design and draw layouts using
CAD tools.
 Understand the concepts of frontend and backend tools for digital design.
E-CAD Programs
Programming can be done by using any compiler. Down load the programs on
FPGA/CPLD boards and performance testing may be done using pattern generator (32
channel) and logic analyzer apart from verification by simulation with any of the front
end tools.
1. HDL code to realize all the logic gates.
2. Design of 2-to -4 decoder.
3. Design of 8-to-3 encoder (Without and with parity)
4. Design of 8-to-1 Multiplexer
5. Design of 4 bit binary to gray converter.
6. Design of comparator
7. Design of full adder using 3 modeling styles.
8. Design of flips: SR, D, JK, T.
9. Design of 4-bit binary, BCD counters (synchronous /asynchronous reset) or
any sequence counter.
172
VLSI Programs
1. Introduction to layout design rules
2. Layout, physical verification, placement and route for complex design.
3 Basic logic gates
 CMOS inverter
 CMOS NOR/ NAND gates
 CMOS XOR gate and MUX
4 CMOS 1-bit full adder
5 Static / Dynamic logic circuits (register cell)
6 Latch
173
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 6 2
(ECE1301) INDUSTRIAL ORIENTED MINI PROJECT
174
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(ECE1120) CELLULAR AND MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS
Pre-requisites: Analog and Digital Communication Fundamentals
Course Objectives
 To understand concepts of cellular and mobile radio systems
 To design cellular radio system and the required antennas.
 To learn various types of interferences and mobile propagation.
 To learn about digital cellular networks
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Design and analyze Basic Cellular System.
 Understand of frequency reuse and Co-channel Interference and different
methods of cell splitting and sectoring.
 Measure the real time Co-Channel Interference.
 Apply the different methods of Handoff mechanisms
UNITI
CELLULAR MOBILE RADIO SYSTEMS: Introduction to Cellular Mobile System,
Performance criteria, uniqueness of mobile radio environment, operation of cellular
systems, Hexagonal shaped cells, Analog and Digital Cellular systems.
ELEMENTS OF CELLULAR RADIO SYSTEM DESIGN : General description of the
problem, concept of frequency channels, Co-channel Interference Reduction Factor,
desired C/I from a normal case in a omni directional Antenna system, Cell splitting,
consideration of the components of Cellular system.
UNITII
INTERFERENCE : Introduction to Co-Channel Interference, real time Co-Channel
interference, Co-Channel measurement, design of Antenna system, Antenna
parameters and their effects, diversity receiver, non-co-channel interference-different
types.
CELL COVERAGE FOR SIGNAL AND TRAFFIC :Signal reflections in flat and hilly
terrain, effect of human made structures, phase difference between direct and reflected
paths, constant standard deviation, straight line path loss slope, general formula for
mobile propagation over water and flat open area, near and long distance propagation
antenna height gain, form of a point to point model.
175
UNITIII
CELL SITE AND MOBILE ANTENNAS : Sum and difference patterns and their
synthesis, omni directional antennas, directional antennas for interference reduction,
space diversity antennas, umbrella pattern antennas, minimum separation of cell site
antennas, high gain antennas.
FREQUENCY MANAGEMENT AND CHANNEL ASSIGNMENT: Numbering and
grouping, setup access and paging channels channel assignments to cell sites and
mobile units, channel sharing and borrowing, sectorization, overlaid cells, non fixed
channel assignment.
UNIT IV
Handoff, dropped calls and cell splitting, types of handoff, handoff invitation, delaying
handoff, forced handoff, mobile assigned handoff, Intersystem handoff, cell splitting,
micro cells, vehicle locating methods, dropped call rates and their evaluation.
UNIT V
DIGITAL CELLULAR NETWORKS: GSM architecture, GSM channels, GSM
Standards, multiple access schemes -TDMA, CDMA.
TEXTBOOKS
1. Mobile Cellular Telecommunications – W.C.Y. Lee,
Tata McGraw Hill, 2ndEdition, 2006.
2. Principles of Mobile Communications – Gordon L. Stuber,
SpringerInternational 2nd Edition, 2007.
REFERENCES
1. Wireless Communications - Theodore. S. Rapport, Pearson education, 2nd
Edition, 2002.
2. Wireless and Mobile Communications – Lee McGraw Hills, 3rd Edition, 2006.
3. Wireless Communication and Networking – Jon W. Mark and Weihua
Zhqung, PHI, 2005.
176
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - IV 3 0 3
(ECE1121) SPREAD SPECTRUM COMMUNICATIONS
Pre-requisites: Digital and Analog Communication Concepts
Course Objectives
 Understand the concepts of spread spectrum communication techniques, code
tracking loops and synchronization of the receivers in wireless systems.
 Describe the principles of CDMA, detection schemes and interference cancellation
techniques of CDMA.
 Analyze the performance of the spread spectrum communication systems.
 Understand the fundamental concepts of Software Defined Radio and develop
SDR based end-to-end Communication.
Course Outcomes
After completing this course the student will be able to
 Apply fundamental knowledge of spread spectrum communication to provide initial
synchronization of a receiver with spreading codes.
 Based on knowledge of CDMA, analyze the performance of detection schemes
and interference cancellation techniques.
 Analyze the performance of spread spectrums in jamming environments.
 Apply the fundamental knowledge of Software Defined Radio, design SDR and
establish SDR based end-to-end communication.
UNIT I
Introduction to spread spectrum system: Fundamental concepts of spread
spectrum systems, Pseudo noise sequences, direct sequence spread spectrum,
frequency hop spread spectrum, Hybrid direct sequence frequency hop spread
spectrum, code division multiple access
Binary shift register sequences for spread spectrum systems: Introduction, Definitions,
Mathematical back ground and sequence generator fundamentals, maximal length
sequences, Gold codes.
UNIT II
Code tracking Loops: Introduction, Optimum tracking of wideband signals, Base band
delay-lock tracking loop, Tau-dither non-coherent tracking loop, Double dither non-
coherent tracking loop.
177
Initial synchronization of the receiver spreading code: Introduction, Problem definition
and the optimum synchronizer, serial search synchronization techniques,
synchronization using matched filter, synchronization by estimated the received
spreading code.
UNIT III
Cellular code division multiple access CDMA Principles: Introduction, Wide band
mobile channel, The cellular CDMA System, Single user receiver in a multi user
channel, CDMA System capacity.
Multi-User detection in CDMA Cellular radio: Optimal multi-user detection, linear
suboptimal detectors, Interference combat detection schemes, Interference
Cancellation techniques.
UNIT IV
Performance of spread spectrum systems in jamming environments: Spread
Spectrum Communication system model, Performance of spread spectrum systems
without coding, Performance of spread spectrum systems with forward error correction:
Elementary block coding concepts, Optimum decoding rule, Calculation of error
probability. Elementary convolution coding concepts, viterbi algorithm, Decoding and
bit-error rate.
UNIT V
Software Defined Radio
Introduction to SDR: SDR concepts and history, Characteristics and Benefits of SDR,
SDR Forum, Design principles of Soft ware Radio, Ideal SDR architecture, SDR Based
End-to-End Communication.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to spread spectrum communication - Rodger Eziemer, Roger L.
Peterson and David E Borth– Pearson, 1st Edition,1995
2. Introduction to CDMA wireless Communications- Mosa Ali Abu, Rgheff,
Elsevier Publications, 2008.
3. A Modern Approach to Radio Engineering - Software Radio - Jeffrey H. Reed,
Prentice Hall PTR, May 2002
REFERENCES
1. Modern Communication and Spread Spectrum - George R. Cooper, Clare D.
Mc Gillem, McGraw Hill, 1986.
2. CDMA; Principles of Spread Spectrum Communication - Andrew J. Viterbi,
Pearson Education, 1st Edition, 1995.
3. Wireless Digital Communications - Kamilo Feher, PHI, 2009.
4. WCDMA Design Handbook -Andrew Richardson, Cambridge University
Press, 2005.
5. Software Defined Radio, Architectures, Systems and Functions - Dillinger,
Madani, Alonistioti(Eds.), Wiley, 2003.
178
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective – IV 3 0 3
(ECE1122) DIGITAL DESIGN THROUGH VERILOG
Pre-requisites: Digital Logic Design, Programming Knowledge
Course Objectives
 To model, simulate and synthesize the digital designs using Verilog HDL
 To describe and realize the functionality of the digital design by using ASM
charts
 To know architectural features and implementation of digital designs in CPLDs
 To know architectural features and building blocks of Altera’s FPGAs.
Course Outcomes
After completing this course the student will be able to
 Develop HDL code for digital system designs.
 Describe ASM charts for synchronous sequential systems
 Acquire knowledge to Implement and test designs on the target CPLDs &
FPGAs.
 Develop different digital solutions ranging from signal processing, data
manipulation, electronic instrumentation, control, telecommunications to
consumer electronics
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO VERILOG: Verilog as HDL, Levels of Design Description,
Concurrency, Simulation and Synthesis, Functional Verification, System Tasks,
Programming Language Interface (PLI), Module, Test Benches.
LANGUAGE CONSTRUCTS AND CONVENTIONS : Introduction, Keywords,
Identifiers, White Space Characters, Comments, Numbers, Strings, Logic Values,
Strengths, Data Types, Scalars and Vectors, Parameters, Memory, Operators,
System Tasks.
UNIT II
GATE LEVEL MODELING : Introduction, AND Gate Primitive, Module Structure,
Other Gate Primitives, Illustrative Examples, Tri-State Gates, Array of Instances of
Primitives, Design of Flip-flops with Gate Primitives, Delays, Strengths and
Contention Resolution, Net Types, Design of Basic Circuits.
179
BEHAVIORAL MODELING : Introduction, Operations and Assignments, Functional
Bifurcation, Initial Construct, Always Construct, Assignments with Delays, Wait
construct, Multiple Always Blocks, Designs at Behavioral Level, Blocking and Non
blocking Assignments, The case statement, Simulation Flow,iƒ and iƒ-else constructs,
assign-deassign construct, repeat construct, for loop, the disable construct, while
loop, forever loop, parallel blocks, force-release construct, Event.
UNIT III
MODELING AT DATA FLOW LEVEL: Introduction, Continuous Assignment
Structures, Delays and Continuous Assignments, Assignment to Vectors, Operators.
SWITCH LEVEL MODELING: Introduction, Basic Transistor Switches, CMOS Switch,
Bi-directional Gates, Time Delays with Switch Primitives, Instantiations with Strengths
and Delays, Strength Contention with Trireg Nets
UNIT IV
SYSTEM TASKS, FUNCTIONS, AND COMPILER DIRECTIVES: Introduction,
Parameters, Path Delays, Module Parameters, System Tasks and Functions, File-
Based Tasks and Functions, Compiler Directives, Hierarchical Access.
FUNCTIONS, TASKS, AND USER-DEFINED PRIMITIVES: Introduction, Function,
Tasks, User- Defined Primitives (UDP), FSM Design (Moore and Mealy Machines)
UNIT V
DIGITAL DESIGN WITH SM CHARTS: State Machine Charts, Derivation of SM
Charts, Realization of SM Charts, Implementation of the Dice Game, Alternative
realizations for SM Charts using Microprogramming, Linked State Machines.
DESIGNING WITH PROGRAMMABLE GATE ARRAYS AND
COMPLEXPROGRAMMABLE LOGIC DEVICES: Xilinx 3000 Series FPGAs, Altera
FLEX 10K Series CPLDs.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Design through Verilog HDL – T.R. Padmanabhan and B. Bala Tripura
Sundari, WSE, IEEE Press,2004.
2. A Verilog Primier – J. Bhaskar, BSP, 2003.
REFERENCES
1. Fundamentals of Logic Design with Verilog – Stephen. Brown
and ZvonkoVranesic, TMH, 2005.
2. Digital Systems Design using VHDL – Charles H Roth, Jr. Thomson
Publications, 2004.
3. Advanced Digital Design with Verilog HDL – Michael D. Ciletti, PHI, 2005.
4. HDL Programming Fundamentals VHDL and VERILOG, Botros, Thomson
Publications.
180
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-IV 3 0 3
(CSE1112) CRYPTOGRAPHY AND NETWORK SECURITY
Pre-requisites: Computer Networks
Course Objectives
 Understand security concepts, Ethics in Network Security.Analyze the tradeoffs
inherent in security, Understand the basic categories of threats to computers
and networks and Comprehend security services and mechanisms in the
network protocol stack
 Discuss issues for creating security policy for a large organization, Defend the
need for protection and security, and the role of ethical considerations in
computer use
 Describe efficient basic number-theoretic algorithms, including greatest common
divisor, multiplicative inverse mod n, and raising to powers mod n.
 Describe at least one public-key cryptosystem, including a necessary
complexity-theoretic assumption for its security.
 Create simple extensions of cryptographic protocols, using known protocols and
cryptographic primitives.
 Comprehend and apply authentication services and mechanisms, Describe the
enhancements made to IPv4 by IPSec, Understand Intrusions and intrusion
detection
 Generate and distribute a PGP key pair and use the PGP package to send an
encrypted e-mail message.
 Understand security threats, and the security services and mechanisms to
counter them, Comprehend and apply relevant protocol like SSL, SSH etc,
Comprehend and apply email security services and mechanisms.
Course Outcomes
After completing this course the student will be able to
 Design a security solution for a given application.
 Analyse a given system with respect to security of the system.
 Should be able to identify network security threats and determine efforts to
counter them
181
 Should be able to write code for relevant cryptographic algorithms, Should be
able to write a secure access client for access to a server
 Should be able to send and receive secure mails, Should be able to determine
firewall requirements, and configure a firewall.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION: Security Attacks (Interruption, Interception, Modification and
Fabrication), Security Services (Confidentiality, Authentication, Integrity, Non-
repudiation, access Control and Availability) and Mechanisms, A model for
Internetwork security, Classical Encryption techniques, Fiestel Cipher Structure,
Data Encryption Standard, Block Cipher Design Principles and Modes of Operation,
Triple DES, IDEA, BLOWFISH, RC-4, Evaluation criteria for AES, AES Cipher,
Placement of Encryption Function, Traffic Confidentiality
UNIT II
PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOGRAPHY
Confidentiality using Symmetric Encryption – Principles of Public key Cryptosystems,
RSA algorithm, Key Management, Diffie-Hellman key Exchange, Elliptic Curve
Cryptography. Buffer overflow, TCP session hijacking, ARP attacks, route table
modification, UDP hijacking and man-in-the-middle attacks.
UNIT III
AUTHENTICATION AND HASH FUNCTIONS
Authentication requirements, Authentication functions, Message Authentication Codes,
Hash Functions, Security of Hash Functions and MACs, MD5 message Digest
algorithm , Secure Hash Algorithm, RIPEMD, HMAC Digital Signatures, Authentication
Protocols, Digital Signature Standard, Authentication Applications: Kerberos – X.509
Authentication Service
UNIT IV
NETWORK SECURITY: Email Security and Web Security
Electronic Mail Security – PGP/ SMIME, IP security- Architecture, Authentication
Header, Encapsulating Security Payload, Key Management, Web Security- Secure
Socket Layer, Transport Layer Security and Secure Electronic Transaction
UNIT V
SYSTEM LEVEL SECURITY
Intrusion detection – password management – Viruses and related Threats – Virus
Counter measures – Firewall Design Principles – Trusted Systems.
182
TEXT BOOKS
1. William Stallings, “Cryptography And Network Security – Principles and
Practices”, Prentice Hall of India, Fourth Edition, 2005.
2. Bruce Schneier, “Applied Cryptography”, John Wiley & Sons Inc, 2001
REFERENCES
1. Charles B. Pfleeger, Shari Lawrence Pfleeger, “Security in Computing”, Third
Edition, Pearson Education, 2003
2. Atul Kahate, “Cryptography and Network Security”, Tata McGraw-Hill, 2003.
3. “Hack Proofing your network” by Ryan Russell, Dan Kaminsky, Rain Forest,
Puppy, Joe Grand, DavidAhmad, Hal Flynn Ido Dubrawsky, Steve W.Manzuik
and Ryan Permeh, wiley Dreamtech
183
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech ECE – II sem L T/P/D C
Elective-IV 3 0 3
(ECE1123) TELEVISION AND VIDEO ENGINEERING
Pre-requisites: Communication Fundamentals
Course Objectives
 To learn the fundamentals of Television Picture formation, transmission,
reception.
 To Understand the Television broadcast and receiver fundamentals
 Know the principles of color video transmission and VCR technologies.
 To understand digital television technologies and high definition Television.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Understand the issues related to propagation of TV signals, antennas.
 Know the working of TV Receiver and design principles.
 Understand the various video systems like VCR, Video disc systems CCTV
 Know the principles involved in the working of Latest Technologies like HDTV
UNIT I
BASIC TELEVISION SYSTEM : TV Transmitter, Receiver, Synchronization
Television Pictures : Geometric form and aspect ratio, Persistence of vision and
Flicker, Image Continuity, Vertical resolution, The Kell factor , Horizontal resolution and
video bandwidth, The scanning process, Interlaced Scanning , Scanning sequence
Composite Video Signal : Video signal dimension, Composite video signal,
Horizontal and Vertical sync Signals ,Video modulation and Vestigial sideband signal,
Sound modulation and the intercarrier system, reception of Vestigial sideband signal
Colour Signal generation : Perception of brightness and colors, additive colour
mixing ,Chromaticity Diagram, video signals for colour, Formation of Chrominance
signal, Colour TV signal transmission.
UNIT II
TELEVISION BROADCASTING
Picture signal Transmission: Positive and negative modulation, VSB transmission,
sound signal Transmission, Standard channel Bandwidth, TV signal propagation
TV Transmitter: TV broadcast channels, Design principles of TV transmitters, Block
diagrams of TV Transmitters
TV Antenna systems: Antenna Requirements, TV transmission Antennas, Television
Reception problems
184
TV Standards: Consolidated CCIIR System-B standard, NTSC color System, SECAM
System, PAL system.
TV Cameras: Camera tube types, Silicon diode Array Vidicon, CCD Image scanners,
Colour Camera.
TV Picture Tube: Monochrome picture tube, PIN picture tube, TRINITRON picture
tube.
Studio Equipment: Production control room (PCR) facilities, Master control room
(MCR) Equipment
UNIT III
TELEVISION RECEIVER
RECEIVER FUNCTIONS AND SUBSYSTEMS: Monochrome Receiver: RF Tuner, IF
subsystem, AGC, Video amplifier, , FM Sound Detectors, Sound section, Sync
separation and processing, Noise in sync pulses, Separation of frame and line Sync
pluses, AFC, deflection circuits, Deflection Drive ICs scanning circuits, PAL –D Colour
receiver: Electronic Tuners, Digital tuning techniques, IF subsystem, Y-signal channel ,
chroma decoder, video and intercarrier sound signal detection, raster circuits,
RECEIVER CIRCUITS AND TV APPLICATIONS:
Colour TV display Tubes: Delta-gun , Precision-in-line and Trinitron Color Picture
tubes, Remote control of TV Receivers, Receiver Antennas
Flat panel Display TV receivers: LCD TV, LED TV, Plasma TV, and OLED TV
UNIT IV
VIDEO SYSTEMS
TV Applications: CCTV, Cable TV ,Video games, Tele-Text broadcast receiver,
Stereo sound in TV,
VCR AND VEDIO DISC SYSTEMS: video camera signal processing, video monitors,
video cassette recorders, video disc systems, interactive video systems
UNIT V
ADVANCED TELEVISION SYSTEMS
Cable Television and Direct Broadcast Satellite Systems : CATV Systems and
channels, Scrambling and conditional access Systems ,Direct Broadcasting Satellites
INSAT series, International Direct Broadcast Satellites.
Digital Television Technology: Digital Television signals, Transmission of Digital TV
Signals, Bit-rate Reduction, Digital TV Receivers, Picture-in-Picture processor
High Definition TV systems:HDTV standards and compatibility, The MUSE
system,The HD-MAC family.
State of the art TV Systems: 3D TV, Direct To Home Television, IP TV.
185
TEXT BOOKS
1. Television and Video Engineering - AM Dhake 2nd Edition, TMH, 2003.
2. Modern Television Practice, Principles, Technologyand Servicing -
RR.Gulati, New Age International Publishers, 2004.
REFERENCES
1. R.R.Gulati, “ Monocrome and Colour Television” New Age International
Publishers,2003.
2. Colour Television, Theory and Practice - SP Bali.
186
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - V 3 0 3
(ECE1124) EMBEDDED REAL TIME OPERATING SYSTEMS
Pre-requisites: Microprocessor and Microcontrollers Concepts
Course Objectives
 Learn the general embedded system concepts
 Understand design of embedded hardware and software development tools
 Learn the basics of OS and RTOS
 Describe key issues such as CPU scheduling, memory management, task
synchronization, and file system in the context of real-time embedded
systems.
Course Outcomes
After completing this course the student will be able to
 Understand and design real time and non real time embedded systems
 Define the unique design challenges of real-time systems and program them.
 Understand unique characteristics of RTOS and use RTOS to build an
embedded real-time system
 Gain knowledge and skills necessary to design and develop embedded
applications based on real-time operating systems.
UNIT I
FUNDAMENTALS OF EMBEDDED SYSTEMS
Definition – Classification of Embedded Systems - Processors in the system - Other
Hardware units. Software components - Examples for embedded systems, Design
issues and trends
UNIT II
EMBEDDED HARDWARE DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT
Processor Architecture- Structured units of a processor - Processor selection factors.
Common memory devices - Memory selection - Memory map - Internal devices & I/O
devices, Serial devices - Parallel port devices, Timer and Counting devices - Direct
memory access, Communication Interface Standards,.
UNIT III
EMBEDDED SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT ‘
Embedded System Development Process, Embedded Operating systems, Types of
Embedded Operating systems, Host and Target machines, Linkers/Locators for
187
embedded software, getting embedded software into the target system, Testing on
host machine.
UNIT IV
REAL TIME OPERATING SYSTEMS CONCEPTS -I
Typical OS structure - RTOS structure - The context of its use - Schedule management
for multiple tasks - Scheduling in real time - RTOS task scheduling models – Round
Robin, Round Robin with Interrupts, Priority driven- Preemptive and Non-preemptive
scheduling
UNIT V
REAL TIME OPERATING SYSTEMS CONCEPTS -II
Tasks and Task states, Tasks and Data, Semaphores and shared data, Message
queues, Mailboxes and Pipes, Timer functions, events, Memory management, Interrupt
routines in an RTOS environment.
Case study of RTOS using MUCOS. Case study for RTOS based programming -
Coding for Automatic Chocolate vending machine using MUCOS.
TEXT BOOKS
1. An Embedded Software Primer – David E. Simon, Pearson Ed., 2005.
2. Embedded systems - architecture, programming and design - Raj Kamal;
Tata McGraw Hill
REFERENCES
1. Real time Systems”, J. W. S. Liu, Pearson
2. The 8051 Microcontroller & Embedded Systems using Assembly and C by
Ayala & Gadre, Cengage Publications
188
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech ECE – II sem L T/P/D C
Elective-V 3 0 3
(ECE1125) AD-HOC WIRELESS NETWORKS
Course Objectives
• To learn about the fundamentals of Adhoc wireless networks.
• To learn about the different Routing protocols.
• To learn about the different Multicasting and Security protocols.
• To learn about the Qos and different power management schems.
Course Outcomes
After completing this course the student will be able to
• Design protocols using IEEE standards
• Design and implement different Routing protocols.
• Design and implement different Multicasting and security protocols.
• Implement different power management schems.
UNIT I
FUNDAMENTALS
Introduction – Fundamentals of Wireless Communication Technology – The
Electromagnetic Spectrum – Radio Propagation Mechanisms – Characteristics of the
Wireless Channel – IEEE 802.11a–b Standard – Origin of Ad hoc Packet Radio
Networks – Technical Challenges – Architecture of PRNETs – Components of Packet
Radios – Ad hoc Wireless Networks – What is an Ad Hoc Network? Heterogeneity in
Mobile Devices – Wireless Sensor Networks – Traffic Profiles – Types of Ad hoc
Mobile Communications – Types of Mobile Host Movements – Challenges Facing Ad
hoc Mobile Networks – Ad hoc wireless Internet.
UNIT II
AD HOC ROUTING PROTOCOLS
Introduction – Issues in Designing a Routing Protocol for Ad Hoc Wireless Networks –
Classifications of Routing Protocols – Table–Driven Routing Protocols – Destination
Sequenced Distance Vector (DSDV) – Wireless Routing Protocol (WRP) – Cluster
Switch Gateway Routing (CSGR) – Source–Initiated On–Demand Approaches – Ad
hoc On–Demand Distance Vector Routing (AODV) – Dynamic Source Routing (DSR) –
Temporally Ordered Routing Algorithm (TORA) – Signal Stability Routing (SSR) –
Location–Aided Routing (LAR) – Power–Aware Routing (PAR) – Zone Routing
Protocol (ZRP).
189
UNIT III
MULTICASTROUTING IN ADHOC NETWORKS
Introduction – Issues in Designing a Multicast Routing Protocol – Operation of Multicast
Routing Protocols – An Architecture Reference Model for Multicast Routing Protocols –
Classifications of Multicast Routing Protocols – Tree–Based Multicast Routing
Protocols– Mesh–Based Multicast Routing Protocols – Summary of Tree and Mesh
based Protocols – Energy–Efficient Multicasting – Multicasting with Quality of Service
Guarantees – Application – Dependent Multicast Routing – Comparisons of Multicast
Routing Protocols.
UNIT IV
TRANSPORT LAYER– SECURITY PROTOCOLS
Introduction – Issues in Designing a Transport Layer Protocol for Ad hoc Wireless
Networks – Design Goals of a Transport Layer Protocol for Ad hoc Wireless Networks
–Classification of Transport Layer Solutions – TCP over Ad hoc Wireless Networks –
Other Transport Layer Protocols for Ad hoc Wireless Networks – Security in Ad Hoc
Wireless Networks – Network Security Requirements – Issues and Challenges in
Security Provisioning – Network Security Attacks – Key Management – Secure Routing
in Ad hoc Wireless Networks.
UNIT V
QoS AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Introduction – Issues and Challenges in Providing QoS in Ad hoc wireless Networks –
Classifications of QoS Solutions – MAC Layer Solutions – Network Layer Solutions –
QoS Frameworks for Ad hoc Wireless Networks Energy Management in Ad hoc
Wireless Networks –Introduction – Need for Energy Management in Ad hoc Wireless
Networks – Classification of Energy Management Schemes – Battery Management
Schemes – Transmission Power Management Schemes – System Power Management
Schemes.
TEXT BOOKS
1. C. Siva Ram Murthy and B. S. Manoj, “Ad Hoc Wireless Networks
Architectures and Protocols”, Prentice Hall, PTR, 2004.
REFERENCES
1. C. K. Toh, “Ad Hoc Mobile Wireless Networks Protocols and Systems”,
Prentice Hall, PTR, 2001.
2. Charles E. Perkins, “Ad Hoc Networking”, Addison Wesley, 2000
3. Introduction to Wireless Telecommunications Systems and Networks, Mullet,
Cengage Publications
190
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-V 3 0 3
(EIE1107) BIO-MEDICAL INSTRUMENTATION
Pre-requisites: Electronic Measurements and Instrumentation
Course Objectives
 Identify and obtain biological parameters and relationship between them.
 Identify mathematical models and principles for the design of biomedical
instrumentation systems.
 Understand the principles involved in acquiring different bio-signals.
 Represent these principles in form of mathematical equations.
.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Apply fundamental knowledge of sciences to analyze the relationship among
different bio signals
 Apply fundamental knowledge of mathematics coupled with electronics and
use it for designing bio amplifiers for different applications.
 Understand or become aware of artifacts caused by an incorrect diagnosis of
the symptoms through sample data.
 Apply these equations to analyze real time problems by making good
assumptions and learn systematic engineering method design robust
amplifiers.
UNIT I
Components of Medical Instrumentation System. Bio signals and their characteristics,
Bio amplifier. Characteristics of medical instruments. Problems encountered with
measurements from human beings.
Organization of cell. Nernst equation for membrane. Resting and Action Potential.
UNIT II
Bio Electrodes – Bio potential Electrodes and their classifications-External electrodes,
Internal Electrodes-Biochemical Electrodes.
UNIT III
The Heart and Cardiovascular system- Heart Sounds- Mechanical function, Electrical
Conduction system of the heart. Cardiac cycle. Relation between electrical and
191
mechanical activities of the heart. Interpretation of ECG waveform with respect to
electro mechanical activity of the heart.
UNIT IV
Cardiac Instrumentation: Blood pressure and Blood flow measurement. Specification of
ECG machine. Einthoven triangle, Standard 12-lead configurations, EEG and EMG-
Neuro-Muscular Instrumentation: Specification of EEG and EMG machines. Electrode
placement for EEG and EMG recording. Interpretation of EEG and EMG.
UNIT V
Therapeutic equipment.: Pacemaker, Defibrillator, Shortwave diathermy. Hemodialysis
machine.
Respiratory Instrumentation: Mechanism of respiration, Spirometry,
Pneumotachograph Ventilators.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Biomedical Instrumentation and Measurements – by Leslie Cromwell, F.J.
Weibell, E.A. Pfeiffer, PHI.
2. Medical Instrumentation, Application and Design – by John G. Webster, John
Wiley.
REFERENCES
1. Principles of Applied Biomedical Instrumentation – by L.A. Geoddes and L.E.
Baker, John Wiley and Sons.
2. Hand-book of Biomedical Instrumentation – by R.S. Khandpur, McGraw-Hill,
2003.
3. Introduction to Biomedical equipment technology-by Joseph Carr and Brown,
192
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-V 3 0 3
(ECE1126) CPLD AND FPGA ARCHITECTURES
Pre-requisites: Digital Logic Design
Course Objectives
 To Learn architectures and technologies of various PLD's , CPLDs and FPGAs
 To introduce the student to state machines for sequential circuit design and
petrinets for parallel controllers.
 To describe partitioning techniques and Placement & Routing algorithms for FPGAs.
 To gain knowledge about EDA Tools for FPGAs & ASICs and case studies
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Understand the various architectures of PLD's ,CPLDs and FPGAs
 Design real time applications using state machines and petrinets.
 Analyze placement and routing algorithms.
 Verify the digital design, placement and routing of the designs using CAD tools.
UNIT I
Programmable logic: Combinational logic - PLD’S- ROM, PLA, PAL, PGA,
Sequential programmable logic devices.
CPLDs: Features, programming and applications using complex programmable logic
devices Altera series – Max 5000/7000 series and Altera FLEX logic- 10000 series
CPLD, Cypress FLASH 370 Device technology, Lattice PLSI’s architectures – Speed
performance and in system programmability.
UNIT II
FPGAs: Field Programmable gate arrays- Logic blocks, routing architecture, design
flow , technology mapping for FPGAs, Programming technologies, Xilinx
XC4000,Virtex-II FPGA,Spartan-3 FPGA and ALTERA’s FLEX 8000/10000 FPGAs,
ACTEL’s ACT-1,2,3 and their speed performance.
UNIT III
State machines: Linked state machine, one hot state machine, petrinets for state
machines-Basic concepts, properties, extended petrinets for parallel controllers, traffic
light controller.
193
UNIT IV
Placement: objectives Min-cut based placement , iterative improvement placement,
Routing- objectives , segmented channel routing maze routing, routability estimation ,
net delays, computing signal delay in RC tree networks.
UNIT V
EDA Tools:Digital front end digital design tools for FPGAs and ASICs: Using mentor
graphics EDA tools: FPGA Advantage, Simulation, synthesis, floor planning, Place and
Route (PAR), Configuration of FPGA, Case studies of multiplexers, counters.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Field Programmable Gate Array Technology - S Trimberger, Edr, Kluwer
Academic Publications,1994.
2. Field Programmable Gate Arrays, John V.Oldfield, Richard C Dore, Wiley
Publications.
3. Digital System Design Using VHDL – Charles H Roth, Jr. Thomson, 1998.
REFERENCES
1. Digital Design Using Field Programmable Gate Array, P.K.Chan and S.
Mourad, Prentice Hall, 1994,
2. Application – Specific Integrated Circuits – Michael John Sebastian Smith,
Addison Wesley Professional ,1997.
3. Field programmable gate array, S. D. Brown, R.J.Francis, J.Rose
,Z.G.Vranesic, BSP, 2007.
4. Digital Systems Design with FPGA’s and CPLDs – Ian Grout, Elsevier, 2009.
194
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ECE1302) TECHNICAL SEMINAR
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ECE1303)COMPREHENSIVE VIVA
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 18 12
(ECE1304) PROJECT WORK
195
