SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/R12/R12ME.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

Institute Vision
To be a World Class University providing value based education, conducting
interdisciplinary research in cutting edge technologies leading to sustainable
socio economic development of the nation.
Institute Mission
 To produce technically competent and socially responsible engineers,
managers and entrepreneurs, who will be future ready.
 To involve students and faculty in innovative research projects linked with
industry, academic and research institutions in India and abroad.
 To use modern pedagogy for improving the teaching learning process
1
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
Mechanical Engineering
B.TECH. FOUR YEAR DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2012-2013)
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous Institute
Approved by AICTE & Affiliated to JNTUH
Accredited by NBA and NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
Bachupally, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500090, Andhra Pradesh, India
Phone: 040-23042758/59/60; FAX: 040-23042761
E-Mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
2
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi and Govt. of A.P & Affiliated to JNTUH
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS FOR B.TECH. DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for Students admitted from the academic year 2012-2013)
1. Courses of study
The following courses of study are offered at present for specialization for the B.
Tech. Course:
Branch Code Branch
01 Civil Engineering.
02 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
03 Mechanical Engineering
04 Electronics and Communication Engineering
05 Computer Science and Engineering.
10 Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
12 Information Technology
24 Automobile Engineering
1.1 Eligibility Criteria for Admission
The eligibility criteria for admission into engineering programmes shall be as
mentioned below:
The candidate shall be an Indian National / NRI
The candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st December
of the academic year for which the admissions are being conducted.
The Candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or
equivalent as on the date of admission.
Seats in each programme in the Institution are classified into Category A
and Category B as per the G.Os.
1.1.1 Category – A Seats
These seats will be filled through counseling as per the rank at the Common
Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by the State Government and as per
other admission criteria laid down in the G.Os.
3
1.1.2 Category - B Seats
These seats will be filled by the institute as per the G.Os Issued by State
Government from time to time.
1.1.3 Category: Lateral Entry
The candidate shall be admitted into the Third Semester, based on the rank
secured by the candidate at Engineering Common Entrance Test
(ECET(FDH)) by the Convener, ECET.
2. Distribution and Weightage of Marks
i. The performance of a student in each Semester shall be evaluated subject –
wise with a maximum of 100 marks for theory and 100 marks for
practical subjects. In addition, an Industry oriented mini-project, Seminar,
Comprehensive viva-voce, and Project Work shall be evaluated for 50, 50, 50
and 200 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects the distribution shall be 30 marks for Mid Semester
Evaluation and 70 marks for the End-Examination.For theory subjects,
Two mid examinations will be conducted in each Semester as per the
academic calendar. Each mid examination is evaluated for 25 marks. Two
assignments are to be given to students covering the syllabus of first Mid and
second Mid examinations and are evaluated for 5 marks each. .
The first assignment shall be submitted before first mid examinations and
second Assignment should be submitted before second mid examination. At
the end of the Semester, Internal Marks (Maximum 30) for the respective
subject is assigned as follows:
(a) 25 marks: 80% from the best performed Mid examination and 20% from
the other Mid examination.
(b) 5 marks: Average of the two assignment marks
iii. For practical subjects there shall be a continuous evaluation during the
Semester for 30 marks and 70 marks for end examination. Out of the 30
marks, day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be evaluated for 10
marks, and 10 marks for practical examination (two practical examinations
will be conducted and the average of the two examinations will be taken into
account) and 10 marks for laboratory record.
NOTE: A student who is absent for any assignment/Mid term examination for any
reason what so ever shall be deemed to have secured ‘zero’ marks in
the test/examination and no makeup test/examination shall be
conducted.
iv For the subjects having design and / or drawing, (such as Engineering
Graphics, Engineering Drawing, Machine Drawing, Production Drawing
Practice, and Estimation etc.,) the distribution shall be 30 marks for internal
evaluation (15 marks for day-to-day work and 15 marks for Mid
examination (the average of the two examinations will be taken into account)
4
and 70 marks for end semester examination. There shall be two Mid
examinations in a Semester.
V There shall be an industry-oriented mini-Project, in collaboration with an
industry of their specialization, to be taken up during the a summer vacation
after III year II Semester examination. The mini project shall be evaluated
during the IV year I Semester. The industry oriented mini project shall be
submitted in report form and should be presented before a committee, which
shall be evaluated for 50 marks. The committee consists of Head of the
Department, the supervisor of mini project and a senior faculty member of the
department. There shall be no Midterm assessment for industry oriented
mini project. However, attending the shadow engineering program is a
pre – requisite for evaluating industry – oriented mini project. Students
should submit a report on learning outcomes of the shadow engineering.
Every student should attend shadow engineering programming an industry
for a week days during second year I or II semester.
vi. There shall be a Seminar presentation in IV year II Semester. For the
Seminar, the student shall collect the information on a specialized topic other
than the project topic and prepare a technical report, showing his
understanding of the topic, and submit to the department, which shall be
evaluated by a Departmental committee consisting of the Head of the
department, Seminar supervisor and a senior faculty member. The seminar
will be awarded 50 marks in which 40 marks will be evaluated for
seminar report and 10 marks for MTP Record by the committee.
vii. There shall be a Comprehensive Viva-Voce in IV year II Semester. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce will be conducted by a Committee consisting of
the Head of the Department and three Senior Faculty members of the
Department. The Comprehensive Viva-Voce is aimed to assess the student’s
understanding in various subjects studied during the B.Tech. course of
study. The Comprehensive Viva-Voce is evaluated for 50 marks by the
Committee. There will be no Midterm assessment for the Comprehensive
viva-voce.
viii. The Project work shall be started by the student in the beginning of the IV
year I Semester. Out of a total of 200 marks for the project work, 60 marks
shall be for Midterm Evaluation and 140 marks for the Semester end
Examination. The viva-voce shall be conducted by a committee comprising
of an external examiner, Head of the Department and the project supervisor
and one senior faculty. The evaluation of project work shall be conducted at
the end of the IV year II Semester. The Midterm Evaluation shall be on
the basis of three Seminars conducted during the IV year II Semester for
30 marks by the committee consisting of Head of the Department,
project supervisor and senior faculty member of the Department and for
30 marks by the supervisor of the project.
5
3. Semester end Examination
(a) Theory Courses
Each course is evaluated for 70 marks. Examination is of 3 hours duration.
(b) Practical Courses
Each lab course is evaluated for 70 marks. The examination shall be
conducted by the laboratory teacher and another senior teacher concerned
with the subject of the same/other department/Industry. One examiner may
be appointed by the Chief Superintendent in consultation with HOD as and
when required.
(c ) Supplementary Examinations
Supplementary examinations will be conducted along with regular Semester
end examinations.
(During even Semester regular examinations: supplementary examinations of
odd Semester
and during odd Semester regular examinations: supplementary examinations
of even Semester will be conducted).
4. Attendance Requirements
i. A student shall be eligible to appear for the Semester end examinations if he
acquires a minimum of 75% of attendance in aggregate of all the
subjects for Semester.
ii. Condonation of shortage of attendance in aggregate up to 10% (65% and
above and below 75%) in a Semester may be granted
by Institute Academic Committee.
A student will not be permitted to write the end examination and not promoted
to the next Semester unless he satisfies the attendance requirement of the
present Semester, as applicable. He may seek re-admission for that
Semester when offered next.
iii. Shortage of Attendance below 65% in aggregate shall in NO case be
condoned.
iv. Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned in any Semester are
not eligible to take their end semester examination of that Semester.
v. A stipulated fee shall be payable towards condonation of shortage of
attendance.
5. Minimum Academic Requirements
The following academic requirements have to be satisfied in addition to the
attendance requirements mentioned in item No.4.
i. A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic
requirements and earned the credits allotted to each theory or practical
design or drawing subject or project, if he secures not less than 35% (25 out
of 70 marks) of marks in the end examination and a minimum of 40% of
6
marks in the sum total of the Midterm evaluation and end semester
examination taken together.
ii. A student shall be promoted from II to III year only if he fulfils the academic
requirement of 37 credits from the following examinations,
 Two regular and one supplementary examinations of I year I Semester
 One Regular and One Supplementary exam of I year II Semester
 one regular examination of II year I Semester irrespective
iii. A student shall be promoted from III year to IV year only if he fulfils the
academic requirements of total 62 credits from the following
examinations,
 Three regular and Two supplementary examinations of I B Tech I Semester.
 Two regular and two Supplementary examinations for I B Tech II Semester
 Two regular and one supplementary examinations up to the end of II year I
Semester.
 One regular and one supplementary examinations of II year II Semester.
 One regular examination of III year I Semester.
iv. A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 200
credits and earn the 200 credits. Marks obtained in all 200 credits shall be
considered for the calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA).
v. In addition to the above 200 credits the student must complete the non credit
courses also. The non-credit courses awarded with a grade of satisfactory or
not satisfactory based on the attendance of the student. Minimum attendance
for the non-credit course is 75%.
vi. The student should also register and complete any two value added courses
offered by the Institute.
vii. Students who fail to earn 200 credits as indicated in the course structure
within eight academic years from the year of their
admission shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech. course and their admission
stands cancelled.
6. Course pattern
i. The entire course of study is of four academic years. All the I, II, III and IV
years are of Semester pattern .
ii. A student eligible to appear for the end semester examination in a subject,
but absent or has failed in the end semester examination may reappear for
that subject at the supplementary examination whenever conducted.
iii. When a student is detained due to shortage of attendance in any Semester,
he may be re-admitted into that Semester when it is offered next, with the
academic regulations of the batch into which he gets readmitted.
iv. When a student is detained due to lack of credits in any year, he may be
eligible to be promoted or for promotion into the next year after fulfillment of
the academic requirements, with the academic regulations of the batch
into which he gets admitted
7
Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
A student will be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. Degree if
he/she fulfils the following academic regulations:
i) Pursued a course of study for not less than four academic years and not
more than eight academic years.
ii) Registered for 200 credits and secured 200 credits and other Academic
Requirements .
iii) complete the non-credit courses and value added courses as per their course
structure.
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award
of the degree within eight academic years from the year of their
admission, shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech. Course.
7. CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points:
The absolute grading method is followed, based on the total marks
obtained in internal and external examinations. Grades and grade points are
assigned as per the Table given below
B.Tech Program: The Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the
total marks obtained in internal and external examinations. Grades and
Grade points are assigned as given below
Marks Obtained Grade Description Grade Points(GP)
of Grade Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A+ Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 A Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 B Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 C Fair 6.00
>=40 and <49.99 D Pass 5.00
<40 F Remedial
Not Appeared the Exam(s) N Absent
8
The student is eligible for the award of the B.Tech degree with the class as
CGPA CLASS
>= 7.5 First Class with Distinction
>= 6.5 and <7.5 First class
>= 5.5 and < 6.5 Second Class
>=5.0 and < 5.5 Pass class
mentioned in the Table.
Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
The performance of each student at the end of the each semester is indicated in terms
of SGPA. The SGPA is calculated as below:
Where ‘Ci’ = Number of Credits allotted to particular subject ‘I’
‘Gi’ = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded in that subject ‘i”
‘i”= 1,2,…..P represent the number of subjects for that particular semester
* SGPA is calculated and awarded for the candidates who pass all the courses in
a semester.
Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) for Entire Programme.
The CGPA is calculated as below:
Assessment of the overall performance of a student is obtained by calculating
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA), which is weighted average of the grade
points obtained in all subjects during the course of study.
9
Where Ci= Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘I”
Gi = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded in that
subject ‘i”
I= 1,2,….m represent the number of subjects of the entire program.
Grade lower than D in any subject is not considered for CGPA calculation. The CGPA
is awarded only when the student acquires the required number of credits prescribed
for the program.
Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
e) Award list indicating the marks awarded to the student.
8. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to College, or if any case of indiscipline is
pending against him, the result of the candidate may be withheld and he will not
be allowed to go into the next higher Semester. The award or issue of the
Degree may also be withheld in such cases.
9. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or
any other academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and
when they become eligible. They have to take up Equivalent subjects, as
substitute subject in place of repetition of subjects as decided by the Institute
Academic Committee.
10. Minimum Instruction Days The minimum instruction days for each
Semester shall be 90 instruction days.
11. There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission process.
12. The decision of the Institute Academic Committee will be final in respect of
equivalent subjects for those students who are transferred from other
colleges. The procedure for permitting students to transfer from other
colleges will be decided by the principal / Institute Academic Committee
keeping the Government Rules in view.
13. General
10
i. Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include “she”,
“her”, “hers”.
ii. The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
iii. In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arises in the above rules and
regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
iv. The College may change or amend any or all of the academic regulations or
syllabi at any time and the changes or amendments made shall be applicable to
all the students concerned with effect from the dates notified by the College.
14. Academic Regulations for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2013-2014)
(i) A student shall register for all 150 credits and earn all the 150 credits.
Marks obtained in all 150 credits shall be considered for the calculation
of the class.
(ii) A student who fails to earn 150 credits as indicated in the course
structure within six academic years from the year of their admission
shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech. programme and their admission stands
cancelled.
(iii) The same attendance regulations are adopted as that of B.Tech. Four
year degree course.
(iv) A student shall be promoted from third year to fourth year only on
fulfilling the academic requirements of securing 37 credits from the
following examinations.
a. Two regular and one supplementary examination of II year I Semester
b. One regular and one supplementary examination of II year II Semester
c. One regular examination of III year I Semester.
In case of getting detained for want of credits the student may make up
the credits through supplementary exams of the above exams
before the date of commencement of class work for IV year I
Semester.
(v) All other regulations as applicable to B.Tech. four year degree course
will hold good for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme).
15. Malpractice Rules
Disciplinary Action for Malpractices/Improper Conduct in Examinations
Nature of Malpractices/Improper Punishment
conduct
If the candidate:
1. (a) Possesses or keeps accessible in Expulsion from the examination hall
examination hall, any paper, note book, and cancellation of the performance
programmable calculators, Cell phones, in that subject only.
pager, palm computers or any other form
11
of material concerned with or related to
the subject of the examination (theory or
practical) in which he is appearing but
has not made use of (material shall
include any marks on the body of the
candidate which can be used as an aid in
the subject of the examination)
(b)Gives assistance or guidance or Expulsion from the examination hall
receives it from any other candidate orally and cancellation of the performance
or by any other body language methods in that subject only of all the
or communicates through cell phones candidates involved. In case of an
with any candidate or persons in or outsider, he will be handed over to
outside the exam hall in respect of any the police and a case is registered
matter. against him.
2. Has copied in the examination hall from Expulsion from the examination hall
any paper, book, programmable and cancellation of the performance
calculators, palm computers or any other in that subject and all other subjects
form of material relevant to the subject of the candidate has already appeared
the examination (theory or practical) in including practical examinations and
which the candidate is appearing. project work and shall not be
permitted to appear for the remaining
examinations of the subjects of that
Semester/year.
The Hall Ticket of the candidate is to
be cancelled.
3. Impersonates any other candidate in The candidate who has
connection with the examination. impersonated shall be expelled from
examination hall. The candidate is
also debarred and forfeits the seat.
The performance of the original
candidate who has been
impersonated, shall be cancelled in
all the subjects of the examination
(including practicals and project
work) already appeared and shall not
be allowed to appear for
examinations of the remaining
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class
work and all end semester
examinations. The continuation of
12
the course by the candidate is
subject to the academic regulations
in connection with forfeiture of seat.
If the imposter is an outsider, he will
be handed over to the police and a
case is registered against him.
4. Smuggles the Answer book or additional Expulsion from the examination hall
sheet or takes out or arranges to send out and cancellation of performance in
the question paper during the that subject and all the other
examination or answer book or additional subjects the candidate has already
sheet, during or after the examination. appeared including practical
examinations and project work and
shall not be permitted for the
remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class
work and all end semester
examinations. The continuation of
the course by the candidate is
subject to the academic regulations
in connection with forfeiture of seat.
5. U s e s o b je c t i o n a b l e , a b u s i v e o r o f f e n s i v e C a n c e l la t i o n o f t h e p e r f o r m a n c e i n
language in the answer paper or in letters that subject.
to the examiners or writes to the
examiner requesting him to award pass
marks.
6. Refuses to obey the orders of the Chief In case of students of the college,
Superintendent/Assistant – they shall be expelled from
Superintendent / any officer on duty or examination halls and cancellation of
misbehaves or creates disturbance of any their performance in that subject and
kind in and around the examination hall or all other subjects the candidate(s)
organizes a walk out or instigates others has (have) already appeared and
to walk out, or threatens the officer-in shall not be permitted to appear for
charge or any person on duty in or the remaining examinations of the
outside the examination hall of any injury subjects of that semester/year. The
to his person or to any of his relations candidates are also debarred and
whether by words, either spoken or forfeit their seats. In case of
written or by signs or by visible outsiders, they will be handed over
representation, assaults the officer-in- to the police and a police case is
charge, or any person on duty in or registered against them.
outside the examination hall or any of his
13
relations, or indulges in any other act of
misconduct or mischief which result in
damage to or destruction of property in
the examination hall or any part of the
College campus or engages in any other
act which in the opinion of the officer on
duty amounts to use of unfair means or
misconduct or has the tendency to disrupt
the orderly conduct of the examination.
7. Leaves the exam hall taking away answer Expulsion from the examination hall
script or intentionally tears of the script or and cancellation of performance in
any part thereof inside or outside the that subject and all the other
examination hall. subjects the candidate has already
appeared including practical
examinations and project work and
shall not be permitted for the
remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class
work and all University examinations.
The continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the academic
regulations in connection with
forfeiture of seat.
8. Possess any lethal weapon or firearm in Expulsion from the examination hall
the examination hall. and cancellation of the performance
in that subject and all other subjects
the candidate has already appeared
including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be
permitted for the remaining
examinations of the subjects of that
semester/year. The candidate is
also debarred and forfeits the seat.
9. If student of the college, who is not a If the student belongs to the college,
candidate for the particular examination expulsion from the examination hall
or any person not connected with the and cancellation of the performance
college indulges in any malpractice or in that subject and all other subjects
improper conduct mentioned in clause 6 the candidate has already appeared
to 8. including practical examinations and
14
project work and shall not be
permitted for the remaining
examinations of the subjects of that
semester/year. The candidate is also
debarred and forfeits the seat.
Person(s) who do not belong
to the College will be handed over to
police and, a police case will be
registered against them.
10. Comes in a drunken condition to the Expulsion from the examination hall
examination hall. and cancellation of the performance
in that subject and all other subjects
the candidate has already appeared
including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be
permitted for the remaining
examinations of the subjects of that
semester/year.
11. Copying detected on the basis of internal Cancellation of the performance in
evidence, such as, during valuation or that subject and all other subjects
during special scrutiny. the candidate has appeared
including practical examinations and
project work of that semester/year.
12. If any malpractice is detected which is not
covered in the above clauses 1 to 11
shall be reported to the academic council
of the Institute for further action to award
suitable punishment.
Malpractices identified by squad or special invigilators
Punishments to the candidates as per the above guidelines.
Malpractice identified at Spot center during valuation
The following procedure is to be followed in the case of malpractice cases detected
during valuation, scrutiny etc. at spot center.
1) Malpractice is detected at the spot valuation. The case is to be referred to the
malpractice committee. Malpractice committee will meet and discuss/question
the candidate and based on the evidences, the committee will recommend
suitable action on the candidate.
15
2) A notice is to be served to the candidate(s) involved through the Principal to his
address and to the candidate(s) permanent address regarding the malpractice
and seek explanations.
3) The involvement of staff who are in charge of conducting examinations,
invigilators valuing examination papers and preparing / keeping records of
documents relating to the examinations in such acts (inclusive of providing in
correct or misleading information) that infringe upon the course of natural justice
to one and all concerned at the examinations shall be viewed seriously and
recommended for award of appropriate punishment after thorough enquire.
4) Based on the explanation and recommendation of the committee action may be
initiated.
5) Malpractice committee:
i. Controller of Examinations Chairman
ii. Assistant controller of Evaluation Member
iii. Chief Examiner of the subject/subject expert Member
iv. Concerned Head of the Department Member
16
Vision
To develop into a Centre of Excellence in Education and Research in the field
of Mechanical Engineering, consistent with the contemporary and future needs
of the country
Mis sion
 To impart high quality education by using modern pedagogical tools
so as to make the students technically competent in their chosen fields
and socially responsible
 To inculcate quality research by developing linkages with Industry and
R & D organizations in India & abroad
17
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
Approved by AICTE & Affiliated to JNTUH
Accredited by NBA and NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
B.TECH. (MECHANICAL ENGINEERING):
Degree: B.Tech. Specialization: Mechanical Engineering
Duration: 4 Years Details: 8 semesters
Mode: Full-time Year of starting: 1995
study:
Intake: 120 Regulations: R12
 Overview of the programme:
Mechanical engineering is a broad and diverse discipline that derives its breadth
from the need to design, analyze and manufacture everything from small to
large components, assemblies and systems either stationary or in motion. The
four year programme is designed to prepare graduates with creative thinking
that allows them to design a product, use the analytical tools to achieve the
design goals, ability to overcome constraints, work in a team to find solutions
with social relevance. The programme has been running for the last 17 years
and is regularly updated in line with the subject developments and changing
industrial practices. Mechanical engineers learn about materials, solid and fluid
mechanics, thermodynamics, heat transfer, control, instrumentation, design and
manufacturing processes etc., to understand mechanical systems. Specialized
mechanical engineering subjects include unconventional machining processes,
composite materials, MEMS, nanotechnology, tribology, vibrations etc.
18
B.TECH. (MECHANICAL ENGINEERING)
 PROGRAMME EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES:
I. To prepare students for successful careers as mechanical engineers in
organizations that meet the needs of Indian and global/multinational
industrial/research establishments.
II. To provide a strong foundation in mathematical, scientific and engineering
fundamentals in both domain and cross domain spheres, that enables
students to visualize, analyze and solve mechanical engineering problems
and be innovative and research oriented.
III. To train students with a wide spectrum of scientific and engineering
courses so that students could comprehend, analyze, design and create
products and services that address real life problems, which are efficient
and cost effective.
IV. To inculcate in students a professional and ethical attitude, impart effective
communication skills and ability to work in teams with multidisciplinary
approach, be part of and interact with professional bodies so as to resolve
engineering issues of social relevance.
V. To provide students with an academic environment that fosters excellence,
leadership, yearning to pursue higher studies and passion for lifelong
learning so as to have a successful professional career.
19
B.TECH. (MECHANICAL ENGINEERING)
 PROGRAMME OUTCOMES:
a. Demonstrate basic knowledge of mathematics, sciences and mechanical
engineering and essential computational techniques/procedures that aid in
problem solving and be in a position to face competitive examinations.
b. Identify, critically analyze, formulate and solve mechanical engineering
problems.
c. Design a system, a component or a process in the domain of mechanical
engineering, prepare a model, conduct experiments, analyze and interpret
data.
d. Visualize and work in engineering and science laboratories on
multidisciplinary tasks as teams, conduct investigations and solve complex
problems.
e. Use modern engineering tools, equipment, processes and state-of-the-art
software packages on modeling and analysis for solving problems.
f. Demonstrate an understanding of the impact of engineering solutions on
society to ensure that no ill effects befall; and also be aware of contemporary
issues.
g. Understand the impact of engineering solutions on the environment to
mitigate any ill effects and ensure sustainability of solutions arrived at.
h. Possess knowledge, understanding and application of professional and
ethical responsibilities and human values in all professional transactions.
i. Utilize ability to work as individuals as well as team members on engineering
problems and be able to understand group dynamics and play their role
appropriately in the group and develop entrepreneurial skills.
j. Communicate effectively in both verbal and written form.
k. Administer and execute projects with emphases on time management,
financial management and personnel management.
l. Develop a penchant for self-education, inclination for updating with
developments, participate in professional societies, interact with stalwarts in
the field and continue life-long learning.
20
Opportunities:
The passed out students of this programme are well received by the core
manufacturing industry as well as software organizations. The students
discharge responsibilities as design engineers, manufacturing engineers,
production engineers, engineering managers, systems engineers, or R & D
engineers. They are placed in various companies like Tata Consultancy
Services, Hyundai, Honda, Mahindra & Mahindra, Denison Hydraulics - Veljan,
info tech, cap Gemini, Rane Valves to name a few. Some of the graduate
students have opted for pursuing higher studies in various advanced topics of
mechanical engineering, both in India and in universities abroad – US,
Germany, Canada etc.
21
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH (ME)
(R12)
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
MTH1101 Mathematics – I 3 1 3
PHY1101 Engineering Physics 3 1 3
Chemistry of Engineering
CHE1102 3 0 3
Materials
Computer Programming and
ITD1101 3 1 3
Data Structures
MED1101 Engineering Mechanics – I 3 1 3
MED1102 Engineering Graphics – I 2 4 4
Engg. Physics and Chemistry
EPC1201 0 3 2
Lab
English Language
ENG1201 0 3 2
Communication Skills Lab - I
Computer Programming and
ITD1201 0 3 2
Data Structures Lab
Total 17 17 25
22
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH (ME)
(R12)
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
MTH1102 Mathematics – II 3 1 3
PHY1102 Physics of Materials 3 1 3
ENG1101 English 3 0 3
CHE1101 Engineering Chemistry 3 0 3
MED1103 Engineering Mechanics – II 3 1 3
Engineering Graphics - II
MED1104 2 4 4
(using AutoCAD)
MED1210 IT and Fuels Lab 0 3 2
MED1201 Engineering Workshop 0 3 2
English Language
ENG1202 0 3 2
Communication Skills Lab - II
Total 17 16 25
23
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH (ME)
(R12)
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
MTH1103 Mathematics – III 3 1 3
MED1106 Solid Mechanics 3 1 3
MED1107 Thermodynamics 4 1 4
Metallurgy and Material
MED1108 4 0 4
Science
MED1112 Fluid Mechanics 4 0 4
Basic Electrical and
EEE1153 3 1 3
Electronics Engineering
Metallurgy and Mechanics
MED1203 0 3 2
of Solids Lab
Basic Electrical and
EEE1251 0 3 2
Electronics Engineering Lab
Total 21 10 25
24
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH (ME)
(R12)
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
MTH1106 Probability and Statistics 3 1 3
Business Economics and
CMS1101 4 0 4
Financial Analysis
MED1109 Machine Drawing 0 6 3
MED1111 Kinematics of Machines 4 0 4
MED1113 Thermal Engineering 4 0 4
MED1118 Hydraulic Machines 3 1 3
Fluid Mechanics and
MED1205 0 3 2
Hydraulic Machines Lab
Applied Thermodynamics
MED1211 0 3 2
Lab
Human Values and Non Credit Audit
NCC1101 2
Professional Ethics Course
Total 20 14 25
25
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH (ME)
(R12)
III YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Numerical Analysis and
MTH1104 3 1 3
Linear Programming
MED1114 Production Technology 3 0 3
MED1115 Dynamics of Machinery 4 1 4
MED1116 Engineering Design Basics 4 1 4
MED1122 Heat and Mass Transfer 4 1 4
MED1149 Operations Research 3 1 3
MED1204 Production Technology Lab 0 3 2
MED1208 Heat and Mass Transfer Lab 0 3 2
Total 21 11 25
26
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH (ME)
(R12)
III YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
CED1105 Environmental Studies 3 1 3
MED1117 Machine Tools 4 1 4
MED1119 Turbo machines 4 1 4
Mechanical Engineering
MED1120 4 1 4
Design
MED1124 Metrology and Quality Control 3 1 3
Instrumentation and Control
EIE1128 3 1 3
Systems
Machine Tools and Metrology
MED1206 0 3 2
Lab
Advanced English Language
ENG1204 Communication Skills 0 3 2
Laboratory
Soft Skills and Personality Non Credit Audit
NCC1102 2
Development Course
Total 23 12 25
27
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH (ME)
R12
IV YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
MED1121 Finite Element Method 4 0 4
MED1128 CAD/CAM 4 0 4
Elective – I OPEN
CED1147
Disaster Management
CSE1121 Cyber Security
Object Oriented Programming
ITD1105 3 0 3
through JAVA
ITD1116 Computer Forensics
ITD1126 Green IT
Elective – II
MED1129
Robotics
MED1130 Composite Materials
MED1143 Theory of Metal Cutting
3 1 3
MED1136 Tribology
Surface Modification
MED1135
Techniques
MED1150 Tool Design
Elective – III
MED1123
Mechanical Vibrations
AED1115 Automobile Engineering
3 1 3
MED1134 Advanced Solid Mechanics
28
MED1142 Fluid Power Systems
MED1144 Renewable Energy Sources
Introduction to Aircraft Industry
MED1171
and Aircraft Systems
MED1207 Instrumentation Lab 0 3 2
MED1209 CAD/CAM Lab 0 3 2
MED1303 Comprehensive Viva 0 3 2
MED1301 Industry Oriented Mini Project 0 6 2
Total 17 17 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
29
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH (ME)
(R12)
IV YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Industrial Engineering and
MED1138 3 1 3
Management
Elective – IV
Unconventional Machining
MED1139 Processes
MED1145 Nano Technology
Maintenance and Safety
MED1146 4 0 4
Engineering
MED1147 Design for Manufacturing
MED1153 Principles of Entrepreneurship
MED1154 Interactive Computer Graphics
Elective – V
Product Life Cycl Management
MED1132
Plant Layout and Material
MED1140
Handling Systems
MED1141 Computational Fluid Dynamics
4 0 4
Non Destructive Testing and
MED1148
Evaluation
MED1151 Metal Casting Technology
MED1172 Design of Aircraft Structures
MED1302 Technical Seminar 0 3 2
MED1304 Project Work 0 18 12
Total 11 22 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
30
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MTH1101) MATHEMATICS – I
(Advanced Calculus)
Course prerequisites: Differentiation, Integration
Course Objectives:
 Understand Taylor’s theorem and its application to maxima and minima of
f(x,y).
 Understand the process of curve sketching.
 Understand multiple integrals and its applications.
 Apply the integral theorems of vector calculus.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Compute maxima and minima of functions of two variables.
 Apply the curve tracing concepts to find arc length of curves, surface area
and volume of solids of revolution.
 Evaluate the multiple integrals using appropriate change of variables.
 Apply the integral theorems proficiently in analysis and solution of
engineering problems.
UNIT I
DIFFERENTIAL CALCULUS:
Mean value theorems - Rolle ’s Theorem, Lagrange’s theorem, Cauchy’s theorem, and
generalized mean value theorem (Taylor’s Theorem) (statements only), Curvature and
Radius of curvature, Curve tracing – Cartesian, polar and parametric curves (standard
curves only)
UNIT II
FUNCTIONS OF SEVERAL VARIABLES:
Partial differentiation; Euler’s theorem, Functional dependence; Jacobian; Maxima and
Minima of functions of two variables with constraints and without constraints.
UNIT III
IMPROPER INTEGRALS AND MULTIPLE INTEGRALS:
Improper Integrals; Beta, Gamma, and Error integrals - Properties and simple
applications, Applications of integration to lengths, volumes and surface areas in
cartesian and polar coordinates. Multiple integrals - double and triple integrals, change
of variables (Cylindrical and Spherical polar coordinates) and change of order of
integration.
UNIT IV
VECTOR CALCULUS:
Introduction to vector and scalar functions; gradient, curl, divergence, and their related
31
properties of sums and products; Laplacian and second order operators; Vector
integration - line integral, work done, potential function; Area, surface, and volume
integrals; Statements of Vector integral theorems and their verification (without proofs)
- Green’s theorem, Stoke’s theorem, and Gauss divergence theorem.
UNIT V
ELEMENTARY ANALYSIS:
Sequences and series - convergence and divergence, ratio test, comparison test,
integral test, Cauchy’s root test, Raabe’s test (statements only for the tests), and
absolute and conditional convergence.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Calculus and Analytic Geometry by Thomas and Finney, 9th edition;
Publisher: Person Education.
2. Higher Engineering Mathematics by Dr. B. S. Grewal, 40th edition, Publisher:
Khanna Publishers.
3. Schaum’s Outline of Vector Analysis by Murray R. Spiegel (2011); 2nd
edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Elementary Analysis: The Theory of Calculus by Kenneth Ross; Publisher:
Springer.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition; Publisher:
John Wiley.
32
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech I Sem (Common to all branches) L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(PHY1101) ENGINEERING PHYSICS
Course prerequisites: General Physics
Course Objectives:
 To supplement and enhance the basic concepts in Physics essentially
required in the study of materials as well as interaction of light with matter,
interaction of light with matter through physical phenomena like interference,
diffraction and polarization.
 To know and understand some important applications of lasers and optical
fibers.
 To learn the importance of wave and particle nature of light and to
understand the behavior of an electron in one dimensional potential box.
 To understand the effect of temperature on Fermi Dirac Distribution Function
and also learn the behavior of an electron in a periodic potential, the new
concept of Effective mass of an electron and to know the classification of
materials into conductors, semiconductors and insulators.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Understand the Phenomenon of Interference, Diffraction& Polarization.
 Learn the principle, working, construction and energy mechanism of various
lasers and their applications explain the light signal propagation and
attenuation through optical fiber.
 Understand the differences between particle and wave nature, energy states
in one dimensional potential box.
 Understand the Consequences of Heisenberg‘s Uncertainty principle.
 Understand the one dimensional Schrodinger‘s wave equation and the effect
of temperature on Fermi Dirac Distribution, Kronig Penny model.
UNIT I
INTERFERENCE:
Superposition principle, resultant amplitude, coherence, methods to obtain coherent
sources, interference, Young’s double slit experiment, interference in thin films by
reflection, Newton’s rings Experiment.
DIFFRACTION-I:
Distinguish between Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction, diffraction at single slit
(Qualitative and Quantitative (Phasors approach)).
33
UNIT –II
DIFFRACTION-II:
Diffraction at double slit, circular aperture, and multiple slits (grating) (Qualitative
Approach), Resolution of spectral lines, Rayleigh criterion, and resolving power of
grating.
POLARIZATION:
Polarization phenomenon, Brewster’s Law and Malus law, examples, types of
polarization, double refraction, Nicol prism, Quarter and Half wave plates
UNIT -III
LASERS:
Characteristics of Lasers, Spontaneous and Stimulated Emission of radiation, meta
stable state, population inversion, lasing action, Einstein’s coefficients and relation
between them, Ruby Laser, Helium, Neon Laser, Semiconductor Laser, Applications
of lasers.
FIBER OPTICS:
Principle of optical fiber and properties, Acceptance angle and acceptance cone,
Numerical aperture, Types of fibers and refractive index profiles, Qualitative analysis of
attenuation in optical fibers, Application of optical fibers.
UNIT -IV
ELEMENTS OF STATISTICAL MECHANICS:
Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics (non-mathematical
treatment); Photon gas, Planck’s law of black body radiation; Deduction of Wien’s law
and Rayleigh, Jeans law from Plank’s law.
PRINCIPLES OF QUANTUM MECHANICS:
Waves and particles, De Broglie hypothesis, Matter waves, Davisson and Germer
experiment, Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle, Schrodinger Wave Equation, Wave
function and its Physical Significance, Particle in one dimensional potential box (wave
functions, probability densities and energy states).
UNIT -V
FREE ELECTRON FERMI GAS:
Energy levels in one dimension, Effect of temperature on the Fermi-Dirac distribution,
Free electron gas in three dimensions, electrical conductivity and Ohm’s law, Electrical
Resistivity of Metals (Qualitative).
BAND THEORY OF SOLIDS:
Electron in a periodic potential; Bloch Theorem; Kronig-Penney model (non-
mathematical treatment); Origin of energy band formation in solids; Classification of
materials into conductors, semiconductors and Insulators; and Concept of effective
mass of an electron.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Physics Vol.2, by Halliday, Resnick and Krane; John Wiley and Sons
2. Concepts of Modern physics by Arthur Beiser, McGraw Hill Inc.
3. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel : John Wiley and Sons
34
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Physics by R.K.Gaur and S.L.Gupta; Dhanpat Rai and Sons
2. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd.
3. Optics by Ghatak and Thyagarajan, Tata Mc Graw
4. Engineering Physics by G Sahashrabuddhe; University Press
5. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
6. Engineering Physics by Dr M Chandra Shekar and Dr P. Appala Naidu, VGS
Book links.
7. Introduction to Optical Communication by G. Keiser
8. Quantum Mechanics by Gupta Kumar Sharma
35
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I B.Tech CE, ME and AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(CHE1102) CHEMISTRY OF ENGINEERING MATERIALS
Course prerequisites: General Chemistry
Course Objectives:
 A sustainable energy supply, is needed for promoting economic development
as well as protecting the environment.
 Understanding the significance of various Engineering materials like cement
abrasives, adhesives and composites in structural enhancement of materials.
 Exposure to refractories and ceramics in industries and most recently,
aerospace technology.
 Familiarize lubricants as a basic and fundamental necessity for the
maintenance of any machines.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Acquire knowledge of the types of fuels, and their sources.
 Understand the various purification techniques of various fuels.
 Understand the manufacturing process of cement, its properties and usage of
abrasives, and composites in various industrial processes.
 Benefits of refractoriness as heat resistant materials and applications of
ceramics in various fields.
 Knowledge of lubricants in regard to their applications in various machines.
UNIT I
ENERGY SOURCES:
Fuels - classification (solid, liquid, gaseous), calorific value of fuel (HCV, LCV),
determination of calorific value by bomb calorimeter; Solid fuels – coal – analysis –
proximate and ultimate analysis and their significance; Liquid fuels – petroleum,
refining of petroleum, cracking, knocking, synthetic petrol – Bergius and Fischer-
Tropsch’s process. Biofuels- characteristics, biodiesel (preparation, properties and
applications); Gaseous fuels – natural gas, LPG, CNG (composition and uses),
Combustion – problems.
UNIT II
CEMENT:
Types of cement; Chemical constituents and composition of Portland cement;
Manufacturing methods of Portland cement (wet and dry processes); Properties of
cement - Setting and Hardening of cement (reactions); Testing of cement; Decay of
cement; Cement concrete - RCC.
UNIT III
ENGINEERING MATERIALS:
36
a) Abrasives and Adhesives - Introduction, classification of abrasives, and their
applications. Criteria of a good adhesive, classification and their applications.
b) Composites: Need for composites, classification and their applications.
UNIT IV
REFRACTORIES AND CERAMICS:
Refractories: Definition; Classification with examples; Characteristics of a good
refractory; Causes for the failure of a refractory material; Properties of refractories -
refractoriness, RUL test, porosity.
Ceramics: Introduction; Classification, Glazing and Applications of glazed and non
glazed ceramics.
UNIT V
LUBRICANTS:
Criteria of a good lubricant; Classification of lubricants-lubricating oils; Greases or
semisolid lubricants; Solid lubricants; Mechanism of lubrication-fluid film lubrication,
boundary lubrication, and extreme pressure lubrication; Biodegradable lubricants:
types of biodegradable lubricants, advantages and disadvantages of biodegradable
lubricants. Properties of lubricants - viscosity, cloud point, pour point, flash and fire
point, mechanical stability, oiliness, and carbon residue.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, and Jyotsna Cherukuri;
Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain and Monica Jain; Publisher: Dhanpat Rai.
3. Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara and Mukkanti; Publisher: S.Chand and
Co.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna
2. Engineering Chemistry by Balram Pani; Publisher: Galgotia Publications
Pvt.Ltd.
3. Engineering Chemistry by Shashi Chawla Publisher: Dhanpat Rai and Co.
4. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi, Cengage
Learning Publications.
5. Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, Sulochana
Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
37
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech CE, ME and AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(ITD1101) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING AND DATA STRUCTURES
Course Objectives:
 Gain a working knowledge of C and data structure programming.
 Learn how to write modular, efficient and readable C and data structure
programs.
 Utilize pointers to efficiently solve problems.
 Explore searching and sorting concepts to solve problem.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Explore and analyze the working of linear data structures like list, stack and
variation of queues in both static and dynamic implementation.
 Relate and demonstrate the application of linear data structures.
 Illustrate and implement basic non linear data structures like trees, graphs
and their operations.
 I identify and implement basic and advanced comparison based sorting and
searching techniques.
UNIT – I
Introduction to Computers, Computer Systems, Computing Environments, Computer
languages, creating and running programs, Software Development Methods.
UNIT – II
Algorithm / pseudo code, flowchart, program development steps, structure of C
program, identifiers, basic data types, Constants, variables, operators, expressions,
precedence and order of evaluation.
Input-output statements, if and switch statements, loops- while, do-while and for
statements, break, continue, goto and labels, example C programs.
UNIT - III
Functions, basic concepts, parameter passing, storage classes, scope rules, user
defined functions, standard library functions, recursive functions, example C programs.
Arrays- Basic concepts, one-dimensional and two-dimensional arrays, Character array,
string handling functions, example C programs.
UNIT - IV
Derived types- structures- Basic concepts, nested structures, arrays of structures,
program examples.
pointers- Basic concepts, pointers and functions, pointers and strings, pointers and
arrays, pointers and structures, self referential structures, example C programs.
UNIT - V
38
Searching - Linear and binary search methods, sorting - Bubble sort, selection sort,
Insertion sort.
Introduction to data structures, Dynamic memory allocation, stacks and queues-
implementation using arrays.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Computer science, A structured programming approach using C, B.A.
Forouzan and R.F. Gilberg, Third edition, Thomson.
2. The C Programming Language, B.W. Kernighan, Dennis M.Ritchie,
PHI/Pearson Education
3. C Programming and Data structures, E.Balagurusamy, TMH.
REFERENCES:
1. Data Structures Using C - A.S.Tanenbaum, Y. Langsam, and M.J.
Augenstein, PHI/Pearson Education.
2. Programming in C - Stephen G. Kochan, III Edition, Pearson Education.
3. Data Structures and Program Design in C, R.Kruse, C.L. Tondo, BP Leung,
Shashi M, Second Edition, Pearson Education.
39
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ME / AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MED1101) ENGINEERING MECHANICS - I
Course prerequisites: Physics, Mathematics
Course Objectives:
 Understand particle, body, rigid body, concept of force, analysis of forces
acting on a rigid body.
 Understand moment and the principle of moments.
 Understand friction and its implications.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Draw the free body diagram of a body acted upon by a system of forces.
 Analyze the forces acting on a body and write the equations of equilibrium.
 Write the moment equations of equilibrium.
UNIT – I
FORCES:
Introduction to Engineering Mechanics – Basic Concepts: Rigid body, Force,
specifications of a force, Classification of a force system, Composition of force,
Resolution of forces, Rectangular components, parallelogram of forces, Triangle of
forces, Polygon law of forces, Equilibrium of Collinear forces, Equilibrium law,
Superposition and Transmissibility, Law of action and reaction, Free Body Diagram,
Active and reactive forces, Types of supports, Lami’s theorem, Resultant, Equilibrant,
Method of projections, Equations of equilibrium, Resultant of coplanar concurrent
forces, Equilibrium of coplanar concurrent forces.
UNIT – II
MOMENTS:
Moment, Moment of a force, Moment of a force about a point, Moment of a force about
an axis, Arm of the force, Varignon’s principle, Parallel forces, Resultant of parallel
forces, Couple, Moment of a couple about any point lying in the plane, Resolution of a
force into a force-couple and vice versa, Resultant of coplanar non-concurrent forces,
Equilibrium of coplanar non-concurrent forces.
UNIT - III
FRICTION:
Types of Friction, Limiting Friction, Coulomb Laws of Friction, Coefficient of friction
Static friction, Kinetic friction, Angle of friction, Cone of static friction, Equilibrium of
bodies on rough horizontal and inclined planes, Equilibrium of connected bodies on
rough horizontal and inclined planes, Ladder friction, wedge friction, screw friction.
40
UNIT – IV
CENTROID, CENTRE OF GRAVITY:
Centroid, Centroids of simple figures (from basic principles) – Centroids of composite
figures and built-up sections, Centroids of Symmetric figures, Center of parallel forces,
Center of gravity ,Centre of gravity of simple bodies (from basic principles) , Centre of
gravity of composite bodies, Centre of gravity of Symmetric bodies, Pappus theorems.
UNIT – V
MOMENT OF INERTIA:
Introduction, Moment of inertia of plane areas, Radius of gyration, Polar moment of
inertia, Parallel axis theorem, Perpendicular axis theorem, Moments of inertia of simple
figures from basic principles and composite figures. Product of inertia, moment of
inertia about inclined axis, Principle moment of inertia. Mass moment of Inertia:
Introduction, Moments of inertia of simple bodies from basic principles and composite
bodies.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Mechanics by Timoshenko and Young, Tata Mc-Graw Hill
Publishers
2. Engineering Mechanics by S.S. Bhavikatti, New age International Publishers
3. Engineering Mechanics by R.K. Bansal, Laxmi Publishers
REFERENCES:
1. Singer’s Engineering Mechanics by K. Vijaya Kumar Reddy ,BS Publishers
2. Engineering Mechanics (Statics) by Meriam and Kraige, John Wiley
Publishers
3. Engineering Mechanics by Tayal, Umesh Publishers
41
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME / AE I Sem L T/P/D C
2 4 4
(MED1102) ENGINEERING GRAPHICS – I
Course prerequisites: Geometrical Construction
Course Objectives:
 Understand the usage of drawing instruments.
 Understand the construction methods for drawing conic sections.
 Identify the significance of curves in engineering practice like bridges,
building, arches etc.
 Understand first and third angle projections and methods.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Analyze and apply the concept of scales and curves and Solve the problems
as per the drawing conventions.
 Analyze and apply the concept of projections and solve the problems on
Projections for lines, planes and solids.
 Analyze and solve the problems on Auxiliary views of planes and solids.
 Apply the knowledge of AutoCAD Solve all the problems.
UNIT I
Introduction to AutoCAD.
INTRODUCTION TO ENGINEERING DRAWING
Principles of engineering graphics and their significance; Drawing instruments and their
uses; Conventions in drawing-lettering; BIS Convention; Different types of scales;
Scale of chords.
UNIT II
CURVES USED IN ENGINEERING PRACTICE AND THEIR CONSTRUCTION
Ellipse; Parabola; Hyperbola and Rectangular hyperbola; Cycloid; Epicycloids;
Hypocycloid – Involutes.
UNIT III
ORTHOGRAPHIC PROJECTION
Points and straight lines inclined to both planes; True lengths and traces.
UNIT IV
PROJECTION OF PLANES
Projection of regular planes inclined to both planes; Auxiliary projections.
UNIT V
PROJECTION OF SOLIDS
Projection of regular solids-inclined to both planes; Auxiliary projections.
42
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Elementary Engineering Drawing by N.D. Bhat; Publisher: Charotar
Publishing House
2. Engineering Drawing by K.L. Narayana and P. Kannaiah; Publisher: Scitech
Publications.
3. Engineering Graphics for degree by K.C. John; Publisher: Prentice Hall of
India.
43
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME / AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(EPC1201) ENGINEERING PHYSICS AND CHEMISTRY LAB
Course prerequisites: General Physics and Chemistry
Course Objectives:
 To practically learn interaction of light with matter through physical
phenomena like interference, diffraction and dispersion.
 To expose to the principle of superposition and resonance.
 To demonstrate the formation of standing waves and to understand the
mechanical wave behavior and to determine Rigidity Modulus of different
materials of wires.
 To demonstrate basic discharge phenomenon in capacitors and to know the
characteristics of the circuit elements, like resistors, capacitors and inductors.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Understand clearly the interference principle in wave theory of light and able
to relate it to the formation of Newton Rings and obtain a pure spectrum when
light passes through prism.
 Understand the formation and propagation of mechanical waves.
 Study simple oscillations of a load attached to a string and relate it to nature
of material of string.
 Understand the extent of hardness range present in a water sample and its
consequences if used for various industrial operations.
 Determination of strength of solutions, pH of various solutions, lubricants
usage in machinery to prevent wear and tear.
 Understanding the composition of soap used for washings.
Any Eight Experiments from the following:
1. Dispersive Power of the material of a Prism using Spectrometer
2. Diffraction Grating (both with Laser and non laser source)
3. Single Slit with laser light
4. Newton’s Rings
5. Finding thickness of a thin wire or sheet by forming a wedge shaped film
6. Energy gap of a semiconductor material
7. To determine the rigidity modulus of material of a wire
8. Melde’s experiment
9. Sonometer Experiment
10. AC frequency by sonometer method
11. Numerical Aperture and Acceptance angle of an optical fiber cable
44
12. Attenuation and Bending losses in optical fiber
13. Stewart Gee’s experiment
14. Characteristics of LED/Laser Diode.
15. Photo cell/ Solar Cell
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Essential Practical Lab Manual in Physics: by P.Raghavendra Rao
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
1. Titrimetry: a) Estimation of hardness of water by EDTA method.
2. Instrumental methods
(i) Conductometry: a) Conductometric titration of strong acid vs
strong base
(ii) Colorimetry: a) Estimation of copper by colorimetric method
(iii) pH metry: a)Titration of strong acid vs strong base by pH metry
3. Physical properties: a) Determination of viscosity of sample oil by
Redwood viscometer.
4. Preparations:
a) Preparation of soap
b) Preparation of Nano particles.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by S.K.Bhasin and Sudha
Rani; Publisher: Dhanpat Rai.
2. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari and
Jyotsna Cherukuri; Publisher: VGS Book Links.
45
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech (Common to CSE, IT, ME, AE I Sem `L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ENG1201) ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY-1
Course Objectives:
 Provide ample practice in LSRW skills.
 Provide practice in grammatical construction, structural patterns, word usage
and improve comprehension abilities in the students.
 Train students to use neutral pronunciation through phonetic sounds,
symbols, stress and intonation.
 Enable students to transfer information from verbal to graphic representation
and vice versa.
 Train students to use effective language for oral presentations, public
speaking, role play and situational dialogue.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Comprehend spoken and written discourse.
 Speak fluently with neutral pronunciation and exhibit interpersonal skills.
 Write accurately, coherently and lucidly making appropriate use of words
depending on context and present data clearly.
 Introduce one self to people and be able to speak extempore.
The English language Communication Skills Lab aims to provide practice in all the four
skills of LSRW, with a special emphasis on listening and speaking skills.
UNIT I
MULTIMEDIA LAB
1. Sounds of English
2. Listening Comprehension
3. Vocabulary Lesson 1
COMMUNICATION SKILLS LAB: Introduction of Self and others
UNIT II
MULTIMEDIA LAB
1. Grammar ---Nouns and Pronouns; The Present Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 2
3. Listening Skills
COMMUNICATION SKILLS LAB: Seeking and Giving Information
UNIT III
MULTIMEDIA LAB
1. Grammar --- Articles; The Past Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 3
46
3. Telephoning Skills
COMMUNICATION SKILLS LAB: Giving and Taking Instructions
UNIT IV
MULTIMEDIA LAB
1. Grammar ---- Concord; The Future Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 4
3. Listening Comprehension
COMMUNICATION SKILLS LAB: Role Play/ Situational Dialogues
UNIT V
MULTIMEDIA LAB
1. Grammar --- Adjectives, adverbs, conjunctions
2. Vocabulary -- Lesson 5
COMMUNICATION SKILLS LAB : i) jam/ short talk
ii) Information Transfer a) Data Analysis
b) Interpretation of Graph
MULTIMEDIA LAB REQUIREMENTS
Minimum Requirement:
The English Language Lab shall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Lab for 60 students with 60 systems, one
master console,
LAN facility and English language software for self- study by learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Lab with movable chairs and audio-visual aids
with a P.A System,
A T. V., a digital stereo –audio and video system and camcorder etc.
System Requirement (Hardware component):
Computer network with LAN with minimum 60 multimedia systems with the following
specifications:
iv) P – IV Processor
a) Speed – 2.8 GHZ
b) RAM – 512 MB Minimum
c) Hard Disk – 80 GB
v) Headphones of High quality
5. Suggested Software:
The software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above should be procured
and used.
Suggested Software:
o Clarity Pronunciation Power – part II
o Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
o DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill
Practice.
47
o Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
o TOEFL and GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO and BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE
by CLIFFS)
48
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech CE, ME and AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ITD1201) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING AND DATA STRUCTURES
LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
 Gain a working knowledge of C data structure programming
 Learn how to write modular, efficient and readable C and data structure programs
 Utilize pointers to efficiently solve problems
 Utilize searching and sorting concepts to solve problem
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Implement basic command s in Linux.
 Able to write, compile and debug programs in c language.
 Implement appropriate decision making statements and derived data types to
solve a given problem.
 Realize different file operations in c programming.
Week 1
1. Write a program that reads three different integers from the keyboard and
prints – sum, average, product, smallest, largest of the numbers.
2. Write a program that reads two integers and prints – difference, quotient and
remainder
3. WAP that reads two integers and determines whether the first is a multiple of
the other
Week 2
1. Write a C program to find the sum of individual digits of a positive integer.
2. Write a C program for Fibonacci sequence.
3. Write a C program to generate the first n terms of the sequence.
4. Write a C program to generate all the prime numbers between 1 and n, where
n is a value supplied by the user.
Week 3
1. Write a C program to calculate the following Sum:
Sum=1-x2/2! +x4/4!-x6/6!+x8/8!-x10/10!
2. Write a C program toe find the roots of a quadratic equation.
Week 4
1. Write C programs that use both recursive and non-recursive functions
i) To find the factorial of a given integer.
ii) To find the GCD (greatest common divisor) of two given integers.
iii) To solve Towers of Hanoi problem.
49
Week 5
1. Write a C program, which takes two integer operands and one operator from
the user, performs the operation and then prints the result. (Consider the
operators +,-,*, /, % and use Switch Statement)
2. Write a program to print a given number [0-1000] in words. For example, 123
as One Hundred and Twenty Three
Week 6
1. WAP to check whether a given number is an Armstrong, Palindrome, Perfect,
Prime, or a Fibonacci Number
2. Write a C program to find both the largest and smallest number in a list of
integers
Week 7
1. Write a C program to generate Pascal’s triangle.
2. Write a C program to construct a pyramid of numbers.
Week 8
1. Write a C program to calculate
i) Minimum and maximum of an 1-d array
ii) Sorting an array
iii) Searching an array
Week 9
1. Write a C program that uses functions to perform the following:
i) Addition of Two Matrices
ii) Multiplication of Two Matrices
iii) To find the determinant of a 3 by 3 matrix
Week 10
1. Write a C program that uses functions to perform the following operations
using Pointers:
i. To insert a sub-string in to a given main string from a given position
ii. To delete n Characters from a given position in a given string.
iii. To reverse a given string
Week 11
1. Write C Programs to implement Structures and Nested structures with
suitable Examples (Students has to practice with relevant examples taught
in the class room)
Week 12
1. Write C Programs using Pointers and Pointer Arithmetic operations
2. Write C Programs using Pointers to structures, Pointers to Arrays and
Pointers to strings(Students has to practice with relevant examples taught in
the class room)
Week 13
1. Write C Programs to implement the following sorting algorithms
50
a. Bubble Sort b. Selection sort c. Insertion Sort
Week 14
1. Write a C program to implement STACK and QUEUE operations using Arrays
Week 15
1. Write a C program to implement the following searching techniques.
a. Linear Search b. Binary Search
Week 16 Lab Internal Examination
51
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME / AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MTH1102) MATHEMATICS – II
(Linear Algebra and Ordinary Differential Equations)
Course prerequisites: Matrices, Differentiation and Integration
Course Objectives:
 Understand the Echolen form and Normal form of a matrix and its
applications in solving linear system of equations.
 Understand the methods of solving first order differential equations and learn
about its applications to L-R and R-C circuits.
 Apply the convolution theorem to evaluate Laplace Transform of the
functions.
 Apply Z-Transforms in solving the difference equations.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Find the rank using Echelon form and Normal form.
 Solve the problems in first order and second order differential equations.
 Learn Laplace Transform as a tool.
 Evaluate the Z Transform of the given function.
LINEAR ALGEBRA
UNIT I
SOLUTION OF LINEAR SYSTEMS
Matrices and linear systems of equations - elementary row transformations, Rank, row
Echelon form, and normal form; Solution of linear systems - direct methods - LU
decomposition, LU decomposition from Gauss elimination, and solution of Tri-diagonal
systems by Thomas algorithm; Eigen values, eigen vectors, and their properties -
Liner dependence and independence; Cayley-Hamilton theorem (without proof) -
inverse and powers of a matrix by Cayley-Hamilton theorem, diagonalization of a
matrix, calculation of powers of a matrix; Modal and spectral matrices.
UNIT II
LINEAR TRANSFORMATIONS
Real matrices - symmetric, skew symmetric, and orthogonal linear transformation;
Complex matrices - Hermitian, Skew-Hermitian and unitary matrices; Quadratic forms
- reduction of quadratic form to canonical form, rank, positive, negative definite, semi
definite, index, signature, Sylvester law, and singular value decomposition.
52
ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
UNIT III
ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS AND THEIR APPLICATIONS
Differential equations of first order and first degree - Linear, Bernoulli and exact
differential equation; Applications of differential equations of first order and first degree
- Newton’s law of cooling, Law of natural growth and decay, Orthogonal trajectories,
and basic circuits.
UNIT IV
DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS OF HIGHER ORDER AND THEIR APPLICATIONS
Differential equations of higher order - homogeneous and non-homogenous type,
differential equations of second order and higher order with constant coefficients with
ax ax
right hand side term of the type e , sin (ax), cos (ax), polynomials in x, e V(x),
x V(x), and method of variation of parameters and Euler-Cauchy’s 2nd order differential
equations, applications to mechanical systems and Simple harmonic motion.
UNIT V
LAPLACE TRANSFORM AND APPLICATION TO ODE
Laplace transform of standard functions; Inverse transform-first shifting theorem;
Dirac’s delta function; Convolution theorem; Periodic function; Differentiation and
integration of transforms; Application of Laplace transforms to ordinary differential
equations.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Differential Equations, with Applications and Historical Notes by George F.
Simmons and John S. Robertson (2008) 2nd Edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw
Hill.
2. A First Course in Differential Equations by Dennis G. Zill; Publisher: Brooks
Cole.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Dennis G. Zill, Warren S. Wright, and
Michael R. Cullen, 4th edition; Publisher: Jones and Bartlett Learning.
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition; Publisher:
John Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher:
Cengage Learning.
3. Elementary Differential Equations and Boundary Value Problems by William
E. Boyce and Richard C. Diprima; Publisher: Wiley.
4. Linear Algebra and its applications by David C Clay; Publisher: Pearson
Education.
53
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(PHY1102) PHYSICS OF MATERIALS
Course prerequisites: General Physics
Course Objectives:
 To learn the structure of solids, crystal systems, packing and arrangement of
particles in crystals, simple planes and directions in solids, defects in crystals.
 To learn the properties of magnetic materials and classification, Dielectric
materials.
 To learn the concept and applications of superconductors.
 To introduce new concepts like surface phenomena and nano science.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Identify different crystal types various planes and directions in crystals and
estimate one dimensional crystal defects.
 Learn the magnetic properties of materials classify the magnetic materials
into Dia, Para and ferro.
 Learn the characteristics, properties and applications of superconductors and
magnetic materials.
 Realize surface phenomena are different from bulk; Learn methods to
estimate work functions and Compare optical and electron microscopes.
 Learn principles of SEM &TEM.
UNIT -I
CRYSTAL STRUCTURES:
Space lattice – Unit cell – Lattice parameter – Crystal systems – Bravais lattices
Atomic radius – Co-ordination number - Structures and Packing fractions of Simple
Cubic – Body Centered Cubic – Face Centered Cubic crystals – Hexagonal closed
packed crystals - Structures of diamond, NaCl.
BONDING IN SOLIDS:
Force and energy between two approaching atoms, primary and secondary bonds,
binding energy and cohesive energy, Madelung constant, cohesive energy and
Madelung constant for NaCl crystal
UNIT -II
DIRECTIONS, PLANES AND X-RD:
Miller Indices for Crystal planes and directions – Inter planar spacing of orthogonal
crystal systems –Diffraction of X-rays by crystal planes and Bragg’s law– Laue method
– Powder method.
54
DEFECTS IN SOLIDS:
Imperfections in crystals – Point defects (Vacancies, Interstitial and Impurities)
Schottky and Frenkel defects – (with mathematical treatment)- Line imperfections –
Edge and Screw dislocation – Burger vector – Surface defects and volume defects
(Qualitative Treatment).
UNIT -III
MAGNETIC PROPERTIES OF MATERIALS:
Permeability, Field intensity, magnetic field induction, Magnetization and Magnetic
susceptibility – Origin of magnetic moment, Bohr magneton – Classification of
magnetic materials (Dia, Para and Ferro)- Domain theory of ferromagnetism,
Hysteresis curve – Soft and Hard magnetic materials – Ferrites and their applications.
UNIT -IV
DIELECTRIC PROPERTIES:
Electric dipole, Dipole moment, Dielectric constant, Electronic, Ionic and Orientation
Polarization – Calculation of Polarizibilities – Internal fields – Claussius – Mossotti
equation –Piezo and Ferro electricity.
SUPERCONDUCTORS:
Experimental survey and superconductivity phenomenon, – Meissner effect – Critical
fields and Persistent currents, Type I and Type II superconductors - London equations-
flux quantization, Applications of Superconductors.
UNIT -V
SURFACE PHYSICS:
Work function, Thermionic emission, Contact Potential, Electron Microscope, Scanning
Tunneling Microscope.
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY OF NANOMATERIALS:
Origin of nanotechnology – (Basic principles of Nanoscience and Technology) surface
to volume ratio, quantum confinement – Fabrication of nano materials Bottom up
fabrication: sol-gel and combustion methods – Top down fabrication: CVD& PVD
methods– Applications of nanotechnology.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel (Publishers: John Wiley
and Sons)
2. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd
REFERENCES:
1. Solid State Physics by A.J.Dekker; Macmillan Publishers India Ltd.
2. Engineering Physics by Dr M Chandra Shekar and Dr P. Appala Naidu, VGS
Book links.
3. Engineering Physics by G Sahashrabuddhe; University Press
4. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
5. Engineering Physics by M.R.Srinivasan, New Age Publishers
6. Solid State Physics by M.A. Wahab.
R
55
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech II Sem (Common to all Branches) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(ENG1101) ENGLISH
Course prerequisites: General English
Introduction
This is the age of information and communication technologies. Engineers and
technical professionals need to convey technical information in English for various
purposes.
Besides learning general English as an international language, engineering students
need to be equipped with adequate writing ability so that they can communicate
technical information clearly on at least a basic level. A good English writing proficiency
can be a contributing factor to professional recognition and career prospects. This
course teaches those writing strategies that scientists, engineers, and others will need
in order to write successfully on the job. It initiates the students into Technical Writing.
The purposes of technical writing are to inform and persuade. This program aims to
train students in writing clear, concise and effective English.
This syllabus is therefore, a Pragmatic English Writing Program for engineering
students with intermediate proficiency. The program covers a syllabus outline and
instructional approaches on basic writing skills with particular reference to technical
writing.
Course Objectives:
 To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for advanced writing and
speaking.
 To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns and
grammatical constructions required in technical writing as well as oral
presentation.
 To acquaint the students with the writing process in preparation for academic
and workplace writing.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Comprehend technical communication produced in the engineering
profession.
 Understand the writing process and create logical paragraphs.
 Use infrastructural patterns in writing and speaking.
 Communicate coherently orally and in writing.
56
Methodology
A Task-based, process oriented methodology will be used by the teachers to give a
practical orientation to the teaching of language. An inductive approach will be used to
demonstrate the use of language in context. This should enable the students to
internalize the language structures and vocabulary used in context. Students will be
exposed to numerous examples and ample practice will be given in the contextual use
of language structures.
Syllabus Outline
UNIT I : REVIEW OF GRAMMAR
i) Common Errors v) Use of Articles and Prepositions
ii) Subject-Verb Agreement vi) Conjunctions
iii) Adverbs vii) pronoun reference
iv) Transitional elements
UNIT II : PROSE 1
1. Heaven’s Gate by Pico Iyer
2. The Connoisseur by Nergis Dalal
UNIT III : READING AND WRITING SKILLS
i) Reading Comprehension -- Skimmimg and scanning
ii) Reading Comprehension -- Intensive reading
iii) Reading Comprehension -- Critical Analysis
iv) Paragraph Writing
v) Letter Writing
vi) Memo Writing
UNIT IV : PROSE 2
1. The Cuddalore Experience by Anu George
2. The Odds Against Us by Satyajit Ray
UNIT V : ADVANCED WRITING SKILLS
1. Comparison and Contrast Pattern
2. Cause and Effect Pattern
3. Classification
4. Analogy
5. Problem-Solution Pattern
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Enjoying Every day English by A. Ramakrishna Rao
2. Effective Technical Communication by Ashraf Rizvi
3. Technical Writing Process and Product by Gerson Sharon J. and Steven
Gerson, 3rd edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
REFERENCES:
1. M. Raman and S. Sharma, 2004; Technical Communication : Principles and
Practices, OUP, (Indian Edition)
57
2. Blanton, L.L. 1993; Composition Practice, Book 4 ,Second Edition, Heinle
and Heine Publishers, pp. 54
3. Georges, T.M. 1996; A course in Analytical Writing for Science and
Technology,
http://www.mspiggy.etl.noaa.gov/write/
4. Neufeld, J.K. 1987; A Handbook for Technical Communication, Prentice-Hall,
Inc. pp.20,65-68
5. Yalden, J. 1987; Principles of Course Design for Language Teaching,
Cambridge University Press
6. David F. Beer and David McMurrey Guide to Writing as an Engineer, 2nd ed.,
Wiley, 2004, ISBN: 0471430749.
7. Greaney, G.L. 1997; Less is More: Summary Writing and Sentence Structure
in the Advanced ESL Classroom, The Internet TESL Journal, Vol.III, No.9
http://iteslj.org/Techniques/Greaney-Writing.html
58
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I B.Tech CSE, IT I Sem
CE, ME, AE, ECE, EEE, EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(CHE1101) ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
Course prerequisites: General Chemistry
Course Objectives:
 Understand electrochemistry which deals with the utilization of electrical
energy of an external source for bringing about a physical or chemical
change.
 Knowledge of “Corrosion engineering education” and Usage of polymers in
modern world as an integral part of every human’s life.
 Knowledge of purification techniques and various applications of soft water in
industries.
 Usage of nanomaterials as emerging scientific components with amazing
potential applications in various fields.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Visualize the chemical applications of electricity.
 Prevention of corrosion of metals.
 Applications of polymers from domestic articles to sophisticated scientific and
medical instruments.
 Benefits of treated water as source in steam generation and other fields like
production of steel, paper, textiles, atomic energy etc.
 The applicability and greater efficiency of using a material at nano scale in
different Engineering fields.
UNIT I
ELECTROCHEMICAL CELLS AND BATTERIES
Conductance-factors effecting conductance, conductometric titrations; cells: types of
cells, cell representation, electrode potential; Standard electrode potential;
Electrochemical series; Nernst equation; Reference electrodes – hydrogen, calomel
electrode; Ion selective electrodes (glass electrode and flouride electrode); Numerical
problems.
BATTERIES
Primary and secondary cells (lead-acid cell; Ni-Cd cell; lithium cells); Applications of
batteries; Fuel cells – methanol – oxygen fuel cells, advantages of fuel cells; Solar cells
- principle, and applications.
59
UNIT II
CORROSION AND ITS CONTROL
Introduction; Causes and effects of corrosion; Different types of corrosion; Theories of
corrosion – chemical, electrochemical corrosion (reactions); Factors affecting corrosion
– nature of metal (galvanic series; over voltage; purity of metal; nature of oxide film;
nature of corrosion product), and nature of environment (effect of temperature; effect
of pH; humidity; effect of oxidant).
Corrosion control methods – cathodic protection, sacrificial anode, and impressed
current cathode;
Surface coatings – methods of application on metals (hot dipping; galvanizing; tinning;
cladding; electroplating), and organic surface coatings (paints - constituents and
functions).
UNIT III
a) POLYMERS
Introduction; Types of polymerization; Plastics - thermoplastic resins, and thermoset
resins; Compounding and fabrication of plastics; Preparation, properties, and
engineering applications of polyethylene, PVC, PS, Teflon, bakelite, nylon.
b) RUBBER
Natural rubber- processing, vulcanization; Elastomers (Buna-s; Butyl rubber; Thiokol
rubbers); Fiber reinforced plastics (FRP) and their applications.
UNIT IV
WATER
Introduction; Hardness - causes, expression of hardness, units, types of hardness,
estimation of temporary and permanent hardness of water, and numerical problems;
Boiler troubles – scale and sludge formation, caustic embrittlement, corrosion, priming
and foaming; Softening of water (Internal and external treatment - lime soda, zeolite,
ion exchange process, and numerical problems); Reverse osmosis and Electro dialysis
(desalination processes).
UNIT V
NANOMATERIALS
Introduction; Preparation and applications of nanomaterials with special reference to
carbon nanotubes.
INSULATORS
Classification of insulators; characteristics of thermal and electrical insulators and their
applications; Superconductors - Nb-Sn alloy, YBa Cu O ; Applications of
2 3 7-x
superconductors.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna Cherukuri; Publisher:
VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain and Monica Jain, Publisher: Dhanpat Rai
Publishing Company.
60
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara and Mukkanti; Publisher: S.Chand and
Co.
2. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna
3 Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, Sulochana
Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
4 Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi ,Cengage
Learning Publications.
61
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ME / AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MED1103) ENGINEERING MECHANICS – II
Course prerequisites: Physics, Mathematics, Engineering Mechanics – I
Course Objectives:
 Understand trusses and their analysis using various methods.
 Understanding principle of virtual work and its applications.
 Understanding kinematics and kinetics parts of machines.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Draw and analyze the free body diagram of a truss acted upon by a system of
forces.
 Understand the principle of virtual work and its applications.
 Understand the difference between kinematics and kinetics parts of
mechanics.
 Apply the principles of work- energy and impulse-momentum for problem
solving.
UNIT – I
TRUSSES:
Introduction –Types of Trusses, Assumptions made in the analysis of Trusses, Method
of Joints, Method of Sections, Force table, Cantilever Trusses, Trusses with one end
hinged and the other freely supported on rollers carrying horizontal or inclined loads.
Frames: Introduction, Types of Frames, Method of members.
UNIT – II
VIRTUAL WORK:
Equilibrium of ideal systems, Virtual displacement, Concept of virtual work, Principle of
virtual work, Application of principle of virtual work to beams, ladders, framed
structures.
UNIT – III
KINEMATICS:
Kinematics of particles - Path, Tortuous path, Plane path, Rectilinear motion,
Displacement, Displacement time diagram, Velocity, Instantaneous velocity, Average
velocity, Velocity time diagram, Acceleration, Variable acceleration, Average
acceleration, Curvilinear motions, normal and tangential accelerations, Projectiles,
Kinematics of rigid bodies rotation about a fixed axis
UNIT - IV
KINETICS:
Kinetics of particles, Newton’s Second Law, differential equations of rectilinear and
curvilinear motions, motion of a particle acted upon by constant force, Dynamic
62
equilibrium, Inertia force, D’Alembert’s Principle applied for rectilinear and curvilinear
motion, Kinetics of rigid bodies in rotation under action of a constant moment.
UNIT – V
WORK–ENERGY, IMPULSE–MOMENTUM METHOD:
Work of a force, Principle of Work and Energy, Application of principle of Work-Energy
for rectilinear motion, Impulse-Momentum Principle, Application of Impulse-Momentum
principle to connected bodies. Moment of momentum, Application of principle of Work-
Energy for curvilinear motion
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Mechanics by Timoshenko and Young, Tata Mc-Graw Hill
Publishers
2. Engineering Mechanics by S.S. Bhavikatti, New age International Publishers
3. Engineering Mechanics by R.K. Bansal, Laxmi Publishers
REFERENCES:
1. Singer’s Engineering Mechanics by K. Vijaya Kumar Reddy, BS Publishers
2. Engineering Mechanics (Statics) by Meriam and Kraige, John Wiley Publishers
3. Engineering Mechanics by Tayal, Umesh Publishers
63
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME / AE II Sem L T/P/D C
2 4 4
(MED1104) ENGINEERING GRAPHICS – II (USING AUTOCAD)
Course prerequisites: Engineering Graphics -I
Course Objectives:
 Construct the true shape of section and also obtain the development of
surfaces of various solids using AutoCAD.
 Obtain the intersection of surfaces of solids like prism, cylinder and cone,
using AutoCAD.
 Visualize the objects and convert them in different projections –
orthographic & isometric using AutoCAD.
 Convert the given orientation of the object into perspective view.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Construct the true shape of section and also obtain the development of
surfaces of various solids using AutoCAD.
 Obtain the intersection of surfaces of solids like prism, cylinder and cone,
using AutoCAD.
 Visualize the objects and convert them in different projections – orthographic
& isometric using AutoCAD.
 Convert the given orientation of the object into perspective view.
UNIT I
SECTIONS AND SECTIONAL VIEWS
Sections of right regular solids-prisms, pyramids, cylinders and cones – auxiliary views
DEVELOPMENT OF SURFACES
Development of surfaces of right regular solids prisms, pyramids, cylinders and cones.
UNIT II
INTERSECTION OF SOLIDS
Intersection of prism Vs prism, cylinder vs prism, cylinder vs cylinder and cylinder vs
cone
UNIT III
ISOMETRIC PROJECTIONS
Principles of isometric projections, Isometric scale, isometric views, conventions,
isometric views of lines, planes, simple and compound solids, isometric views of
objects having spherical parts.
UNIT IV
TRANSFORMATION OF PROJECTIONS
Conversion of isometric views to orthographic views - conventions for simple objects.
Construction of orthographic projections for given isometric projections.
64
UNIT V
PERSPECTIVE PROJECTIONS
Perspective view of points, lines, plane figures and simple solids, vanishing point
method and visual ray method
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Elementary Engineering Drawing by N.D.Bhat; Publisher: Charotar
Publishing House
2. Engineering Drawing by K.L. Narayana and P. Kannaiah; Publisher: Scitech
Publications.
3. Engineering Graphics for degree by K.C. John; Publisher: Prentice Hall of
India.
65
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(MED1210) IT AND FUELS LAB
Course prerequisites: basic knowledge about different Trades, computer hardware,
Operating System, different trades in mechanical engineering.
Course Objectives:
 To study/demonstrate the concepts of computer w.r.t. it’s hardware.
 To install the operating system and perform various tasks
 To Installation of Windows Operating System
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Explore and analyze the working of linear data structures like list, stack and
variation of queues in both static and dynamic implementation.
 Relate and demonstrate the application of linear data structures.
 Illustrate and implement basic non linear data structures like trees, graphs
and their operations.
 I identify and implement basic and advanced comparison based sorting and
searching techniques.
IT LAB
1. Computer Hardware: Identification of Peripherals
2. Assembling and disassembling of a PC
3. Simple diagnostic exercises – Related to hardware
4. Installation of Windows Operating System
5. Installation of Linux Operating System
6. Linux Basic Commands
7. Simple diagnostic exercises –Related to Operating System
TEXTBOOKS:
1. IT Essentials PC Hardware and Software Companion Guide Third Edition by
Davis Anfinson and Ken Quamme – CISCO Press, Pearson Education.
2. PC Hardware and A+ Handbook – Kate J. Chase PHI (Microsoft)
FUELS LAB
Course prerequisites: Chemistry
Course Objectives:
 To Measures flash point and fire point of a given fuel
 To Measure calorific value of solid, liquid and gaseous fuel samples,
 To measure the viscosity of a given oil
 To measure the carbon content of the given fuel.
66
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 To Measures flash point and fire point of a given fuel.(PO e, f, g, i)
 To Measure calorific value of solid, liquid and gaseous fuel samples,
 To measure the viscosity of a given oil
 To measure the carbon content of the given fuel
Any Six Experiments
1. Find the flash and fire points of the given fuel (open cup method)
2. Find the flash and fire points of the given fuel (closed cup method)
3. Find the calorific value of the given fuel using Bomb calorimeter
4. Find the calorific of the gas using Junkers gas calorimeter
5. To do carbon residue test using Conradson apparatus
6. To analyze the exhaust gas using Orsat apparatus
7. To find viscosity using Saybolt Apparatus
67
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(MED1201) ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
Course Objectives:
 To study/demonstrate the concepts of computer w.r.t. its hardware, operating
system, assembling and disassembling.
 To conduct the experiments related to production engineering technology.
 To demonstrate the usage of power tools, CNC lathe and machine shop for
different exercises.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 To identify, assemble, dissemble, install and write commands for a given
configuration of a computer.
 To create components using the techniques of Carpentry, Tin Smithy,
Welding and Fitting etc. listed in trades for exercises.
 To evaluate the jobs prepared in different trades with the models prepared
using various machine tools.
 To evaluate the performance of different Power Tools.
TRADES FOR EXCERCISES
At least two exercises from each trade:
1. Carpentry
2. Tin-Smithy
3. Fitting
4. Welding
5. Electrical Wiring
TRADES FOR DEMONSTRATION and EXPOSURE:
1. Power tools in construction, wood working, electrical engineering and
mechanical engineering.
2. Machine shop.
3. CNC Lathe
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Workshop Manual by P.Kannaiah and K.L.Narayana; Publisher: Scitech.
68
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech (Common to CSE, IT, ME, AE) II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ENG1202) ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY-II
Course prerequisites: General English
Course Objectives:
 Provide ample practice in LSRW skills.
 Provide practice in grammatical construction, structural patterns, word usage
and improve comprehension abilities in the students.
 Train students to use neutral pronunciation through phonetic sounds,
symbols, stress and intonation.
 Enable students to transfer information from verbal to graphic representation
and vice versa.
 Train students to use effective language for oral presentations, public
speaking, role play and situational dialogue.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Comprehend spoken and written discourse.
 Speak fluently with neutral pronunciation and exhibit interpersonal skills.
 Write accurately, coherently and lucidly making appropriate use of words
depending on context and present data clearly.
 Introduce oneself to people and be able to speak extempore.
In continuation with the first Year I semester syllabus, this course offers further practice
in Listening, Speaking, and Grammar in preparation for the advanced speaking and
writing skills offered in the III Year .
UNIT- I
MULTIMEDIA LAB:
1. Grammar – Active and Passive Voice
2. Vocabulary Lesson 6
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: i) Data Analysis (Writing) ii) Interpretation of visuals
UNIT- II
MULTIMEDIA LAB:
1. Grammar - Conditionals and Prepositions
2. Vocabulary Lesson 7
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: Presentation Skills : Oral Presentation
69
UNIT-III
MULTIMEDIA LAB:
1. Grammar -- Language Analysis
2. Vocabulary Lesson 8
Communication Skills Lab: Presentation Skills : PPTs
UNIT-IV
MULTIMEDIA LAB:
1. Grammar – Common Errors
2. Writing: Self Introduction (in the Written Form)
3. Vocabulary Lesson 9
4. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: Debate
UNIT-V
MULTIMEDIA LAB:
1. Introduction to Technical Writing
A. Definition of a Technical Term
B. Description of a Mechanism
C. Description of a Technical Process
2. Vocabulary Lesson 10
COMMUNICATION SKILLS LAB: Group Discussions
70
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MTH1103) MATHEMATICS III
(Partial Differential Equations and Integral Transforms)
Course prerequisites: Differentiation and Integration
Course Objectives:
 Derive the Fourier coefficients for the sine and cosine series.
 Apply Separation of Variables to solve elementary examples of linear second
order Partial Differential Equations (heat, Laplace and wave equations).
 Understand the properties of Fourier transforms.
 Apply Cauchy theorem
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Solve the second order linear partial differential equations by using
separation of variables method.
 Solve problems in Fourier sine and cosine series.
 Evaluate simple problems of finite Fourier sine and cosine transforms,
Inverse Fourier sine and cosine transform problems and apply to heat, wave
and Laplace equations.
 Evaluate the line integrals using residue theorem, Cauchy‘s theorem and
Cauchy‘s integral formula.
PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
UNIT I
PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
Introduction and formation of partial differential equations by elimination of arbitrary
constants and arbitrary functions; Solutions of first order linear (Lagrange’s) equation
and non-linear (standard type) equations; Method of separation of variables for second
order equations; Particular integrals.
INTEGRAL TRANSFROMS
UNIT II
FOURIER SERIES
Determination of Fourier coefficients; Fourier series - even and odd functions; Fourier
series in an arbitrary interval; Half range Fourier series, sine and cosine series.
UNIT III
FOURIER TRANSFORMS
Fourier integral theorem (only statement); Fourier sine, cosine integrals and complex
form of Fourier integral; Fourier transforms - Fourier sine and cosine transforms;
Inverse transforms; Properties and convolution theorem; finite Fourier transforms;
cosine and sine transforms.
71
UNIT IV
STANDARD PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
Solutions of wave equation, heat equation and Laplace equation and their use in
problems of vibrating string; one dimensional unsteady heat flow; two dimensional
steady heat flow.
UNIT V
Z-TRANSFORM
Z-transform; Inverse z-transform; Properties, initial and final value theorems;
Convolution theorem; Difference equations; Solutions of difference equations using z-
transform.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – by B.S.Grewal
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Dennis G. Zill and Warren S. Wright;
4th edition; Publisher: Jones and Bartlett Learning.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by S.R.K . Iyengar
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher:
John Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher:
Cengage Learning.
72
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MED1106) SOLID MECHANICS
Course prerequisites: Maths, Physics and Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives:
 Understand the stress-strain diagrams for various materials
 Evaluate the shear force and bending moment diagrams for different beams
 Understand the stresses developed in beams.
 Analyze the stress and strain using Mohr’s circle
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 How basic stress strain equations with appropriate assumptions.
 Interpret model and analyze solid mechanics problems on bars, beams and
shafts.
 Apply the concepts of principal stresses in real life design issues.
 Analyze and develop beams, shafts for various applications.
UNIT I
TENSION, COMPRESSION, AND SHEAR
Introduction; Normal Stress and Strain; Stress-strain diagrams; Elasticity and plasticity;
Linear elasticity and Hooke’s law; Allowable stress and allowable loads.
AXIALLY LOADED MEMBERS
Introduction; Deflections of axially loaded members; Strain energy; Dynamic loading.
UNIT II
Area moment of inertia of composite sections.
STRESSES IN BEAMS
Introduction; Normal strains in beams; Normal stresses in beams; Cross-sectional
shapes of beams-C, angular and semicircle structures; Shear stresses in rectangular
beams; Shear stress in webs of beams with flanges; Shear stress in circular beams
(solid and hollow sections); Concept of shear center and shear flow
UNIT III
SHEAR FORCE AND BENDING MOMENT DIAGRAMS
Types of beams; Types of loading; Shear force and bending moment; Relationship
between load, shear force and bending moment; Shear force and bending moment
diagrams.
TORSION
Introduction; Torsion of circular bars; Non uniform torsion; Pure shear; Relationship
between modulus of elasticity E and G; Transmission of power by circular shafts.
73
UNIT IV
ANALYSIS OF STRESS AND STRAIN
Introduction; Plane stress; Principal stresses and maximum shear stresses; Mohr’s
circle for plane stress; Hooke’s law for plane stress; Spherical and cylindrical pressure
vessels (biaxial stress; Hoop and longitudinal stresses); Combined loadings (plane
stress); Principal stresses in beams.
UNIT V
DEFLECTIONS OF BEAMS
Introduction; Differential equations of the deflection curve; Deflections by integration of
the bending moment equation; Deflections by integration of the shear-force and load
equations; Macaulay’s method; Moment area method; Method of superposition.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Mechanics of Materials (SI units) by J.M.Gere and S.P.Timoshenko;
Publisher: CBS Publishers.
REFERENCE:
1. Engineering Mechanics of Solids by Popov; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Strength of Materials Schaum’s Series.
74
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(MED1107) THERMODYNAMICS
Course prerequisites: Physics
Course Objectives:
 To understand the basic concepts of thermodynamics and Thermodynamic
Laws.
 To apply the thermodynamic laws and principles in the fields of energy
technology.
 To understand real world thermal engineering applications.
 To understand the working principle and analysis of gas power cycles
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 To apply the basic concepts of thermodynamics and Thermodynamic Laws
for various thermodynamic systems.
 To Evaluate the properties of pure substance and to analyse the concept of
irreversibility and availability.
 To apply the basic concept of power cycles and refrigeration systems for
Heat Engines and Refrigerators.
 Evaluate the behaviour of ideal gas mixtures and Thermodynamic properties
of the given mixture of gases.
UNIT I
CONCEPTS AND DEFINITIONS
Thermodynamic system and control volume; Macroscopic versus microscopic point of view;
Properties and state of a substance; Processes and cycles, Energy, Specific volume and
density, Equality of temperature; The Zeroth law of thermodynamics; Temperature scales.
WORK AND HEAT
Definition of work; Units for work; Work done at the moving boundary of a simple
compressible system; Other systems that involve work; Definition of heat; Heat transfer modes;
Comparison of heat and work.
THE FIRST LAW OF THERMODYNAMICS
The first law of thermodynamics for a control mass undergoing a cycle; The first law of
thermodynamics for a change in state of a control mass; Internal energy-a thermodynamic
property; Problem analysis and solution technique; Enthalpy; The constant-volume and
constant-pressure specific heats; The internal energy, enthalpy, and specific heat of ideal
gases; The first law as a rate equation.
FIRST LAW ANALYSIS FOR A CONTROL VOLUME
Conversion of mass and the control volume, The first law of thermodynamics for a control
volume, The steady-state process; Examples of steady-state processes.
75
UNIT II
THE SECOND LAW OF THERMODYNAMICS
Heat engines and refrigerators; The second law of thermodynamics; The reversible process;
Factors that render processes irreversible; The Carnot cycle; Two propositions regarding
the efficiency of a Carnot cycle; The thermodynamic temperature scale; The ideal-gas
temperature scale; Ideal versus real machines.
ENTROPY FOR A CONTROL MASS
The inequality of Clausius; Entropy — a property of a system; The entropy of a pure
substance; Entropy change in reversible processes; The thermodynamic property
relation; Entropy change of an ideal gas; The reversible polytropic process for an ideal gas;
Entropy change of a control mass during an irreversible process; Entropy generation;
Principle of increase of entropy; Entropy as a rate equation.
UNIT III
IRREVERSIBILITY AND AVAILABILITY
Available energy; Reversible work and irreversibility; Availability and second-law efficiency;
Exergy balance equation.
Introduction to Third law of Thermodynamics & Concept of absolute entropy
PROPERTIES OF A PURE SUBSTANCE
The pure substance; Vapor- liquid- solid- phase equilibrium in a pure substance;
Independent properties of a pure substance; Steam Tables; Thermodynamic surfaces;
The compressibility factor; Equations of state.
UNIT IV
POWER CYCLES
Introduction to power systems; The Rankine cycle; Effect of pressure and temperature on
the Rankine cycle; Air-standard power cycles; The Brayton cycle; The air-standard
cycle for jet propulsion; Reciprocating engine power cycles; The Otto cycle; The Diesel
cycle; The Dual cycle, The Stirling cycle; The Atkinson and Miller cycles
UNIT V
IDEAL GAS MIXTURES
General consideration and mixtures of ideal gases; ideal gas equation Daltons law of partial
pressure
THERMODYNAMIC PROPERTY RELATIONS
Mathematical relations for a homogeneous phase; The Maxwell relations;
Thermodynamic relations involving enthalpy, internal energy, and entropy; The
Clapeyron equation; Joule-Thompson coefficient; Volume expansivity, and
isothermal and adiabatic compressibility; Real gas behavior and equations of state;
The generalized chart for changes of enthalpy at constant temperature; The
generalized chart for changes of entropy at constant temperature; The property relation
for mixtures; Tables of thermodynamic properties of gases.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Fundamentals of Thermodynamics by C. Borgnakke and R.E. Sonntag;
Publisher Wiley India Pvt. Ltd.
76
2. Engineering Thermodynamics by P.K. Nag.
REFERENCES:
1. Fundamentals of Thermodynamics by C. Borgnakke, R.E. Sonntag,
and G.J. Van Wylen; Publisher John Wiley.
2. Engineering Thermodynamics by Burgadt, Harper & Row Publication
3. Thermodynamics — An engineering approach by Yunus Cengel and Boles;
Publisher: TMH.
77
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(MED1108) METALLURGY AND MATERIAL SCIENCE
Course prerequisites: Maths, Physics and Chemistry
Course Objectives:
 Understand the microstructures of different types of metal and alloys –cast
iron, steels, non ferrous metal and alloys.
 Understand the heat treatment principles-annealing, normalizing and
hardening.
 Understand the different types of tools.
 Understand the different types of Alloy steels
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Analyze different types of metals and alloys.
 Evaluate a heat treatment process to change the properties-hardness,
ductility, etc.
 Analyze the failure of metals and alloys.
 Apply the knowledge to use the right materials for right components.
UNIT I
METAL STRUCTURE AND CRYSTALLIZATION
Introduction - atom binding, ionic bond, covalent bond, metallic bond, and Vander
Waals forces; Crystal imperfections
OVERVIEW OF METAL STRUCTURE AND CRYSTALLIZATION. CONSTITUTION
OF ALLOYS
Introduction; Classification of alloys or compounds; Pure metal; Intermediate alloy
phase or compound - intermetallic compounds or valency compounds, interstitial
compounds, and electron compounds; Solid solutions; Substitution solid solution -
factors that control the range of solubility in alloy system; Interstitial solid solutions.
UNIT II
PHASE DIAGRAMS
Introduction; Coordinates of phase diagrams; Experimental methods - construction of
equilibrium diagrams by thermal analysis, metallographic methods, and X-ray
diffraction;
Type-I-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid and solid states; Chemical
composition of phases; relative amounts of each phase; Equilibrium cooling of a solid
solution alloy; Diffusion; Nonequilibrium cooling; Homogenization; Properties of solid-
solution alloys; Variation of Type I; Type II-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid
state and completely insoluble in the solid state; Type III-Two metals completely
78
soluble in the liquid state but only partly soluble in the solid state; Properties of eutectic
alloy systems; Age hardening – solution treatment, and aging process; Type IV-The
congruent-melting intermediate phase; Type V-The peritectic reaction; Type VI-Two
liquids partly soluble in the liquid state: the monotectic reaction; Type VII-two metals
insoluble in the liquid and solid states; Interrelation of basic types;
Transformations in the solid state - allotropy, order-disorder transformation, the
eutectoid reaction, the peritectoid reaction, and complex diagrams;
Study of important binary phase diagrams of Cu-Ni, Al-Si, Sib-Pb, Pt-Ag, Bi-Cod, Cu-
Pb, Cu-Son and Fe-Fe3C.
UNIT III
THE HEAT TREATMENT OF STEEL
Introduction; Full Annealing; Spheroidizing; Stress-relief annealing; Process annealing;
Normalizing; Hardening; The isothermal transformation diagram; Transformation to
Pearlite and Bainite; Cooling curves and I-T Diagram; Transformation on continuous
cooling; Position of the I-T curves; Hardening or austenitizing temperature;
Homogeneity of austenite; Mechanism of heat removal during quenching - vapor-
blanket cooling state (stage A), vapor transport cooling stage (stage B), Liquid cooling
stage (stage C); Quenching medium; Temperature of quenching medium; Surface
condition - methods to minimize the formation of scale - copper plating, protective
atmosphere, liquid-salt pots, and cast-iron chips; Size and Mass; Hardenability; Use of
Hardenability data; Tempering; Austempering; Surface heat treatment or case
hardening; Carburizing; Heat treatment after carburizing; Cyaniding and Carbonitriding;
Nitriding; Flame hardening; Induction Hardening; Residual Stresses; Hardenable
carbon steels; Effect of cryogenic heat treatment – A brief study.
UNIT IV
ALLOY STEELS
Introduction; Purpose of alloying; Effect of alloying elements upon Ferrite; Effect of
alloying elements upon carbide; Influence of alloying elements on the iron-iron carbide
diagram; Effect of alloying elements in tampering; Classification of steels - nickel steel,
chromium steel, nickel-chromium steels, manganese steels, molybdenum steels,
tungsten steels, vanadium steels, silicon steels, stainless steels, martensitic stainless
steels, ferritic stainless steels, austenitic stainless steels, precipitation-hardening
stainless steels, maraging steels, and ausforming.
TOOL STEELS
Classification of tool steels; Selection of tool steels; Comparative properties; Non-
deforming properties; Depth of hardening; Toughness; Wear resistance; Red-
hardness; Machinability; Resistance to decarburization; Brand names; Water-
hardening tool steels (Group W); Shock resisting tool steels (Group S); Cold-work tool
steels; Hot-work tool steels (Group H); High speed tool steels; Mold Steels (Group P);
Special purpose tool steels; Heat treatment of tool steels; Overview of tool failures;
Special cutting materials – satellites, cemented carbides, and ceramic tools.
UNIT V
79
CAST IRON
Introduction; Types of cast iron; White cast iron; Malleable cast iron; Pearlitic malleable
iron; Gray cast iron; Silicon in cast iron; Sulfur in cast iron; Manganese in cast iron;
Phosphorus in cast iron; Heat treatment of grey iron, Size and distribution of graphite
flakes; Mechanical properties and applications of grey cast iron; Chilled cast iron;
Nodular cast iron; Alloy cast irons.
NON-FERROUS METALS AND ALLOYS
Introduction; Copper and its alloys - Copper, temper designation of copper and copper
alloys, and copper alloys; Aluminum and its alloys - Aluminum, Alloy designation
system, and temper designation; Titanium and Titanium alloys.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Introduction to Physical Metallurgy by Sidney H. Avner; Publisher: McGraw-
Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Essentials of Materials Science and Engineering by Donald R. Askeland and
Thomson.
2. Materials Science and Engineering by William and Collister.
3. Elements of Materials Science by V.Raghavan
80
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(MED1112) FLUID MECHANICS
Course prerequisites: Maths, Physics and Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives:
 Understanding the properties of fluids, principles of buoyancy, flow, force and
head calculations.
 Evaluation of types of fluid flow , Laminar and dynamic
 Knowledge on boundary layer principles applied to aerofoiles.
 Knowledge on the dimensional similitude and flow of compressible fluids
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 To apply fundamental equations of fluid mechanics for pressure exerted on
the submersed bodies and buoyancy force on the bodies and fluid flow .
 Model and analyze fluid flow problems in mechanical engineering.
 To create a model of fluid flow equipments.
 Evaluate the experimental results with theoretical concepts.
UNIT- I
FLUID PROPERTIES AND FLUID STATICS:
Density, Specific weight, Specific gravity, viscosity, Newtonian and Non-Newtonian
Fluids, Vapor pressure, compressibility, total pressure, centre of pressure, Buoyancy,
Elements of stability of floating bodies.
FLUID KINEMATICS:
Stream line, path line, streak line, stream tube, classification of flows - steady,
unsteady, uniform, non-uniform, laminar, turbulent, rotational, irrotational flows, one,
two and three dimensional flows - continuity equation, stream function, velocity
potential function.
UNIT-II
FLUID DYNAMICS:
Surface and Body forces - Euler's and Bernoulli's equation for flow along a streamline,
Momentum equation – applications, Vortex - Free and Forced, Forced vortex with free
surface.
MEASUREMENT OF PRESSURES AND FLOWS:
Piezometer, manometers, pressure gauges, Venturimeters and Orifice meter flow
through notches.
UNIT-III
BOUNDARY LAYER FLOW:
Development of boundary layer along a thin flat plate, Laminar boundary layer and
turbulent boundary layer, Laminar sub layer, boundary layer separation, Drag and lift
81
forces - Aerofoils, pressure and form drags.
UNIT- IV
DIMENSIONAL SIMILITUDE:
Buckingham  theorem; Modeling and similarity.
LAMINAR FLOW THOUGH CONDUITS:
Flow through closed conduit, Reynold's number, Laminar flow through the horizontal
tubes and tubes having slopes, Flow between plates - distribution of stress and velocity
across the section.
ANALYSIS OF PIPE FLOW:
Darcy - Weisbach equation, Hydraulic gradient and total energy lines, Loss of head
due to sudden enlargement and contraction, Syphon pipes, Parallel pipes, Pipes in
power transmission through pipes, Flow in non circular ducts.
UNIT – V
FLOW OF COMPRESSIBLE FLUIDS:
Equation of state, Gas Laws, Equation of motion, Equation of continuity and equation
of energy, Velocity of sound in compressible fluids, Compressible flow regimes,
Mach number Mach cone, Shock Wave, Stagnation point, Pitot tube, Flow of
compressible fluid through Venturimeter.
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Hydraulics and Hydraulic Machines by Modi and Seth.
2. Fluid Mechanics and Fluid Power Engineering by D. S. Kumar, S. K. Kataria
and Sons Publications
REFERENCES:
1. Fluid Mechanics, F. M. White, 6th Edition
2. Fluid Mechanics, Streeter, McGraw Hill
3. Introduction to Fluid Mechanics, R. W. Fox, A. T. McDonald and P.J Pritchard
82
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(EEE1153) BASIC ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
Course Objectives:
 To get awareness of using mechanical energy for electrical energy
generation.
 To understand the basic operation of circuits used for automobile
control.
 To know about working of different electrical machines used for
propulsion of vehicles.
 To know the basic operation of diode and transistor.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Analyze the electro-mechanical energy conversion using electrical
machines.
 Analyze the different electrical machines used for propulsion of vehicles.
 Analyze different control circuits which involve different circuits’
parameters.
 Analyze the basic operation of diode and transistor
UNIT - I
ELECTRICAL CIRCUITS:
Basic definitions, Types of elements, Ohm’s Law, Resistive networks, Kirchhoff’s Laws,
Inductive networks, capacitive networks, Series, Parallel circuits and Star-delta and
delta-star transformations.
UNIT - II
DC MACHINES:
Principle of operation of DC Generator – emf equation - types – Principle of operation
of DC Motor - DC motor types –torque equation – Three point starter -Swinburne’s test,
applications.
TRANSFORMERS:
Principle of operation of single phase transformer–emf equation–losses–OC and SC
tests - efficiency and regulation/
UNIT - III
AC MACHINES:
Principle of operation of alternator – regulation by synchronous impedance method –
Principle of operation of induction motor – slip – torque characteristics – applications.
INSTRUMENTS:
83
Principle and construction of permanent magnet moving coil and moving iron
instruments.
UNIT - IV
DIODE AND IT’S CHARACTERISTICS:
P-n junction diode, symbol, V-I Characteristics, Diode Applications: Rectifiers – Half
wave Full wave and Bridge rectifiers (simple Problems)
UNIT - V
TRANSISTORS:
PNP and NPN Junction transistor, Transistor as an amplifier, SCR characteristics and
applications
CATHODE RAY OSCILLOSCOPE:
Principles of CRT (Cathode Ray Tube), Deflection, Sensitivity, Electrostatic and
Magnetic deflection, Applications of CRO - Voltage, Current and frequency
measurements.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Electronic Devices and Circuits David A Bell Oxford University Press.
2. Introduction to Electrical Engineering – M.S Naidu and S. Kamakshaiah, TMH
Publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Principles of Electrical and Electronics Engineering by V.K.Mehta, S.Chand &
Co.
2. Basic Electrical Engineering by Kothari and Nagarath, TMH Publications, 2nd
edition.
84
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(MED1203) METALLURGY AND MECHANICS OF SOLIDS LAB
Course prerequisites: Mechanics of solids, Engineering Mechanics, Metallurgy and
Material Science
Course Objectives:
 Understand the need of proper simplification for different materials and various
tests to be conducted on engineering materials.
 Understand the significance microstructure of different materials under
microscopic testing and the significance of tests on evaluating the
corresponding mechanical properties.
 Understand the changes in microstructures after different treatments and the
importance of technical parameters used during tests.
 Understand the phase related changes after the subsequent treatment
process and the experimental parameters used during tests.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Evaluate the properties of given materials for the study of micro structure. &
applying the theoretical concepts by conducting the tests on different
materials.
 Analyze the microstructure of any given material and predict properties&:
Evaluate the result of test and comment on the mechanical properties of
materials.
 Analyze the obtained structure through metallurgical microscope by doing
Polishing operations & decide a material and an appropriate test suitable for
given application.
 Create different microstructures by doing appropriate heat treatment for given
material by checking its microstructure Analyze the significance of the tests in
different fields of engineering.
Metallurgy lab (Six experiments)
1. Preparation and study of the microstructure of metals like Iron, Cu and Al.
2. Preparation and study of the microstructure of mild steels, low carbon steels,
and high carbon steels.
3. Study of the microstructures of cast irons.
4. Study of the microstructures of non-ferrous alloys.
5. Study of the microstructures of heat treated steels.
6. Harden ability of steels by Jiminy end quench test.
7. To find out the hardness of various treated and untreated steels.
8. Study the microstructure of cutting tools
85
Mechanics of Solids lab (Six experiments)
1. Direct tension test
2. Bending tests:
a) Simple supported beam
b) Cantilever beam
3. Torsion test
4. Hardness test
a) Brunel hardness test
b) Rockwell hardness test
5. Test on springs
6. Compression test on a cube
7. Impact test
8. Punch shear test
86
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(EEE1251) BASIC ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING LAB
Course Objectives:
 Understand the performance of D.C Shunt Machine.
 Understand the performance of AC machines.
 Understand the performance and efficiency / regulation of electrical machines
are determined experimentally.
 Understand the operation of solid state devices like diode, transistor and
SCR.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 To learn the basics of semiconductor diodes, BJTs and their small signal and
high frequency analysis.
 To learn the basics of tuned amplifiers such as single tuned, double tuned,
stagger tuned & power amplifiers.
 Foster ability to work using Fourier series & z transform.
 Acquired knowledge about Microprocessors and its need.
Section A: Electrical Engineering:
The following experiments are required to be conducted as compulsory experiments:
1. Swinburne’s test on D.C. Shunt machine. (Predetermination of efficiency of a
given D.C. Shunt machine working as motor and generator)
2. Brake test on D.C Shunt Motor
3. OC and SC tests on single phase transformer (Predetermination of efficiency
and regulation at given power factors)
4. Brake test on 3-phase Induction motor (Determination of performance
characteristics)
5. Regulation of alternator by Synchronous impedance method
Section B: Electronics Engineering:
The following experiments are required to be conducted as compulsory experiments:
1. P-n Diode Characteristics
2. Transistor CE Characteristics (Input and Output)
3. Full wave Rectifier with and without filters
4. CE Amplifiers
5. SCR Characteristics
87
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MTH1106) PROBABILITY AND STATISTICS
Course prerequisites: Permutations and Combinations, Basic Statistics
Course Objectives:
 Introduce the elementary ideas in basic probability.
 Develop the concept of Probability distributions
 Introduce the basic concepts in estimation theory and test of hypothesis
 Introduce the notion of time series and its utility in engineering applications
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Comprehend the concepts of sample spaces and Discrete and Continuous
distributions
 Apply the concepts of Sampling distributions, Point and interval estimation
and Hypothesis Testing to solve problems in engineering
 Analyze Paired data, Linear regression models and Correlation .
 Use Least squares method to compute time series
UNIT I
PROBABILITY AND DISTRIBUTIONS
Sample space and events, Probability- The axioms of probability, some elementary
theorems, conditional probability, Baye’s theorem, Random variables - discrete and
continuous. Distributions - Binomial, Poisson and Normal distributions–related
properties.
UNIT II
SAMPLING DISTRIBUTIONS AND TESTING OF HYPOTHESIS
Sampling distributions, Sampling distribution of means (σ known and unknown), Point
estimation, interval estimation, Tests of hypothesis - Null hypothesis, Alternate
hypothesis, Type I, Type II errors, Critical region, Inferences concerning means and
proportions- Large samples- Test of hypothesis for single mean and difference
between the means, Test of hypothesis for the proportions- Single and difference
between the proportions, Confidence interval for the mean and proportions.
UNIT III
TESTS OF SIGNIFICANCE- SMALL SAMPLES
Tests of significance - t distributions, Confidence interval for the t- distribution, F-
distributions and Chi square distributions.
UNIT IV
CORRELATION AND REGRESSION
Coefficient of correlation, regression coefficient, the lines of regression, rank
correlation, correlation for bivariate frequency distributions.
88
UNIT V
RELIABILITY THEORY AND TIME SERIES ANALYSIS
Basic concepts of reliability, Normal failure law, Exponential failure law, The Weibull
failure law and reliability of systems, Time series- utility of time series analysis,
Components of time series, Preliminary adjustments before analyzing time series,
Measurement of trend by the method of least squares.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Probability and Statistics for Engineers - Miller I.R. and Freund J.E, 5th
Edition, Prentice-Hall, 1995.
2. Introductory Probability and Statistical Application – Meyer, 2nd edition,
Oxford and Ibh, 1970.
3. Statistical Methods - S.P. Gupta, Sultan Chand and sons, 2011.
REFERENCES:
1. Reliability Engineering - Balagurusamy E, Tata McGraw Hill, 1984.
2. Elements of Applied Stochastic processes - Bhat U.N, Wiley Series in
Probability and Mathematical Statistics, 1983.
89
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(CMS1101) BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Course Objectives:
 To explain different forms of organizing private and public sector business
enterprises and to analyze the significance of Business Economics in solving
the problems of business enterprise. Also to define and analyze the concepts
of Demand, Elasticity of Demand and Demand Forecasting Methods.
 To analyze the various types of costs and to determine the level of output at
which there is neither profit nor loss. To estimate capital requirements and to
describe various sources of mobilizing funds. Also to identify least cost
combinations of inputs produce desired quantity of output.
 To describe the features of different market structure and pricing strategies.
 To explain the basic accounting concepts and conventions. To elaborate the
importance of finance function for evaluating the economic status of a
business unit.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Select the suitable form of business organization which meets the
requirement of selected business also perform decision – making function
effectively in an uncertain frame work by applying concepts of Managerial
Economics. Meet and manipulate the demand efficiently and plan the future
course of action.
 Apply right kind cost to reduce cost by paying attention towards the costs
which can be reduced. Take decision whether to buy or produce? of fund
mobilization and select best investment opportunity which yields higher rate
of return.
 Fix the right price which can best meets the predetermined objectives of the
business firm under different market conditions. Able to select best
combination of inputs to produce required quantity of output.
 Prepare books of accounts and know over all financial position of the
business enterprise which enables the concerned to take appropriate
measures to improve the situation. Also interpret the financial position from
difference angles and initiates the measures/ efforts in that direction.
UNIT I
BUSINESS AND NEW ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
Characteristic features of business; Features and evaluation of sole proprietorship;
Partnership; Joint stock company; Public enterprises and their types; Changing
business environment in post- liberalization scenario.
90
UNIT II
INTRODUCTION TO BUSINESS ECONOMICS, AND DEMAND ANALYSIS
Definition; Nature and scope of managerial economics - demand analysis
determinants; Law of demand and its exceptions.
ELASTICITY OF DEMAND AND DEMAND FORECASTING
Definition; Types; Measurement and significance of elasticity of demand; Demand
forecasting; Factors governing demand forecasting; Methods of demand forecasting -
survey methods, statistical methods, expert opinion method, test marketing, controlled
experiments, and judgmental approach to demand forecasting.
UNIT III
COST ANALYSIS
Cost concepts - opportunity cost, fixed vs. variable costs, explicit costs vs. implicit
costs, and out of pocket costs vs. imputed costs; Break-even analysis (BEA) -
determination of break-even point (simple problems), managerial significance, and
limitations of BEA.
CAPITAL AND CAPITAL BUDGETING
Capital and its significance; Types of capital; Estimation of fixed and working capital
requirements; Methods and sources of raising finance.
Nature and scope of capital budgeting; Features of capital budgeting proposals;
Methods of capital budgeting - payback method, accounting rate of return (ARR), and
net present value method (simple problems)
UNIT IV
THEORY OF PRODUCTION
Production function - isoquants and isocosts, least cost combination of inputs, and laws
of returns; Internal and external economics of scale.
MARKET STRUCTURES
Types of competition; Features of perfect competition, monopoly, and monopolistic
competition; Price-output determination in case of perfect competition and monopoly.
PRICING POLICIES AND METHODS
Cost plus pricing; Marginal cost pricing; Sealed bid pricing; Going rate pricing, Limit
pricing, Market skimming pricing, Penetration pricing, Two-part pricing, Block pricing,
Bundling pricing, Peak load pricing, Cross subsidization.
UNI T V
INTRODUCTION TO FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING
Double-entry book keeping; Journal; Ledger; Trial balance; Final accounts - trading
account, profit and loss account, and balance sheet with simple adjustments.
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS THROUGH RATIOS
Computation; Analysis and interpretation of liquidity ratios - current ratio, and quick
ratio; Activity ratios - inventory turnover ratio, and debtor turnover ratio; Capital
structure ratios – debt-equity ratio, and interest coverage ratio; Profitability ratios -
gross profit ratio, net profit ratio, operating ratio, P/E ratio, and EPs.
91
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Managerial Economics and Financial Analysis by Aryasri, 2009; Publisher:
Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Managerial Economics by Varshney and Maheswari, 2009; Publisher: Sultan
Chand.
REFERENCES:
1. Financial Accounting for Management: An analytical perspective by Ambrish
Gupta, 2010; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Managerial Economics by H. Craig Peterson and W. Cris Lewis; Publisher:
Prentice Hall of India.
92
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 6 3
(MED1109) MACHINE DRAWING
Course prerequisites: Engineering Graphics
Course Objectives:
 Understand the Principles of Machine Drawing Conventions.
 Familiarize the Machine Elements like Screw Threads, Nuts, Bolts, Keys and
riveted joins.
 Impart the knowledge on Machine Elements and simple parts like Shaft
couplings, Journal, pivot, and collar bearings.
 Understand the different views of Part Drawings and based on that, draw
the Assembled Parts of Engine & Machine parts
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Apply the Knowledge of Machine Drawing Conventions.
 Apply the knowledge of AutoCAD Software and draw the Machine Elements
like Screw Threads, Nuts, Bolts, Keys and riveted joins.
 Apply the knowledge of AutoCAD Software and draw the Machine Elements
and simple parts like Shaft couplings, Journal, pivot, and collar bearings.
 Design all the parts & assemble them in AutoCAD with section views.
Machine drawing conventions
Need for drawing conventions – Introduction to IS conventions
a) Conventional representation of materials, common machine elements and
parts such as screws, nuts, bolts, keys, gears, webs and ribs.
b) Types of sections – selection of section planes and drawing of sections and
auxiliary sectional views. Parts not usually sectioned.
c) Methods of dimensioning, general rules for sizes, and placement of
dimensions for holes, centers, and curved and tapered features.
d) Title boxes, their size, location, and other details - common abbreviations and
their liberal usage
e) Types of drawings – working drawings for machine parts.
f) Production drawings
I. Drawing of machine elements and simple parts
Selection of orthogonal views and additional views for the following machine elements
and parts with every drawing proportion.
a) Popular forms of screw threads, bolts, nuts, stud bolts.
b) Keys, cottered joints, and knuckle joint.
c) Riveted joints for plates.
d) Shaft coupling and spigot joint.
93
e) Journal, pivot, and collar bearings.
II. Part and Assembly drawings
Assembly drawings for the following, using conventions and easy drawing proportions:
a) Engine parts – stuffing boxes, eccentrics, I.C. engine connecting rod and
piston assembly.
b) Other parts - screws jacks, machine vices, and tailstock.
III. Production drawings
a) Overview of limits, fits, ISO system of tolerances, geometrical accuracy,
surface roughness symbols, welding symbols etc.
b) Production drawings of piston assembly and tailstock.
NOTE
1. To adopt first angle of projection.
2. The student should be able to provide working drawings of actual parts.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Machine Drawing by K. L. Narayana, P. Kannaiah and K. Venkata Reddy;
Publisher: New Age/ Publishers.
REFERENCES:
1. Machine Drawing by Siddheswar, Kannaiah and Sastry.
2. Machine Drawing by N. D. Bhat.
94
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(MED1111) KINEMATICS OF MACHINES
Course prerequisites: Geometrical Construction, Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives:
 Develop an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and
engineering
 Understand mechanisms for motion transmission.
 Study of displacements, velocities, accelerations of mechanical linkages.
 Design engineering applications involving in selection, sizing of mechanism to
accomplish motion objectives.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Draw velocity and acceleration diagrams of various parts of a machine along
with the transmission Mechanisms.
 Design components of machine parts, structures, gears, cams, belts,
pulleys, etc. for kinematic analysis.
 Understand the straight line motion mechanisms, Hooke’s joint and steering
mechanisms.
 Design the mechanisms after analysis for safety and efficient working.
UNIT-I
MECHANISMS AND MACHINES:
Elements or links-classification-rigid link, flexible and fluid link-types of kinematic pairs-
sliding pairs, turning, rolling, screw and spherical pairs-lower and higher pairs-closed
and open pairs-constrained motion-completely, partially or successfully constrained
and incompletely constrained.
Mechanisms, Machines -classification of machines- kinematic chain-inversion of
mechanism-inversions of quadric cycle chain, single and double slider crank chains,
Intermittent motion mechanisms.
UNIT-II
KINEMATICS:
Velocity and acceleration-motion of link in machine-Determination of velocity and
acceleration diagrams-graphical method- Application of relative velocity method- four
bar chain
ANALYSIS OF MECHANISMS:
Analysis of slider crank chain for displacement, velocity and acceleration of slider-
acceleration diagram for a given mechanism, Klein’s construction, Coriolis
acceleration, determination of Coriolis component of acceleration.
95
PLANE MOTION OF BODY:
Instantaneous center of rotation, centroids and axodes - relative motion between two
bodies-Three centers in line theorem-Graphical determination of instantaneous centre,
diagrams for simple mechanisms and determination of angular velocity of points and
links.
UNIT-III
STEERING MECHANISMS AND HOOKE’S JOINT:
Condition for correct steering –Davis steering gear, Ackerman’s steering gear-velocity -
ratio - Single and double Hooke’s Joint- Universal coupling-applications- problems.
STRAIGHT LINE MOTION MECHANISMS:
Exact and approximate-copied and generated types - Peaucellier , Hart and Scott
Russell- Grasshopper- Watt-Tchebicheff and Robert mechanism and straight line
motion, Pantograph.
UNIT-IV
CAMS:
Definition of cam and followers-their uses-types of followers and cams-terminology-
types of follower motion-uniform velocity-simple harmonic motion and uniform
acceleration, maximum velocity and acceleration during outward and return strokes in
the above three cases. Overview of polynomial motions, Analysis of motion of
followers: roller follower- circular cam with straight, concave and convex flanks.
UNIT-V
HIGHER PAIRS:
Friction wheels and toothed gears-types-law of gearing, condition for constant velocity
ratio for transmission of motion, forms of teeth- Cycloidal and Involute profiles. Velocity
of sliding-phenomena of interference-methods of interference, condition for minimum
number of teeth to avoid interference, expression for arc of contact and path of contact-
introduction to helical, bevel and worm gearing.………………........... ...
GEAR TRAINS:
Introduction-train value-types-simple and reverted wheel trains – epicyclic gear train,
methods of finding train value or velocity ratio-selection of gear box differential gear for
an automobile.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Theory of Machines by Thomas Bevan
2. Theory of Machines by P. L. Ballaney
3. Theory of Machines by Ratan
REFERENCES:
1. Theory of machines by R. S. Khurmi & J. K. Gupta
2. Theory of machines by R. K. Bansal
3. Theory of machines by Sadhu Singh
4. Theory of machines by Shigley
5. Mechanism and Machine Theory by J. S. Rao and R. V. Dukkipati
96
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(MED1113) THERMAL ENGINEERING
Course prerequisites: Mathematics, Thermodynamics
Course Objectives:
 To Analyse the Actual cycles and systems of Internal Combustion Engine.
 To analyse the combustion phenomena in Spark Ignition and Compression
ignition Engines.
 To Evaluate the performance parameters of internal combustion engines
and reciprocating compressor
 To Evaluate the COP of different refrigeration cycles and to measure the
psychrometric properties of air air for air-conditioning system
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 To apply the basic concepts of Thermal engineering Laws for various
thermodynamic systems.
 To Evaluate the properties of pure substance and to analyse the concept of
irreversibility and availability.
 To apply the basic concept of power cycles and refrigeration systems for
Heat Engines and Refrigerators.
 Evaluate the behaviour of ideal gas mixtures and Thermodynamic properties
of the given mixture of gases.
UNIT – I
ACTUAL CYCLES AND THEIR ANALYSIS
Introduction, Comparison of Air Standard and Actual Cycles, Time Loss Factor,
Heat Loss Factor, Exhaust blow down, Loss due to Gas exchange process,
Volumetric Efficiency, Loss due to Rubbing Friction, Actual and Fuel-Air Cycles of I.C.
Engines.
UNIT – II
I. C. ENGINES
Classification, Working principles, Valve and Port Timing Diagrams, Air Standard, air-
fuel and actual cycles, Engine systems, Fuel Systems, Simple Carburetor, Sole
carburetor, Fuel Injection Systems; Ignition systems, Battery ignition, Magneto ignition,
Electronic ignition; Cooling and Lubrication systems.
UNIT – III
COMBUSTION IN S. I. ENGINES
Normal combustion and abnormal combustion, Importance of flame speed and effect of
engine variables, Type of Abnormal combustion, Pre-ignition and knocking, Fuel
requirements and fuel rating, Anti knock additives, Combustion chamber,
97
Requirements, Types.
COMBUSTION IN C. I. ENGINES
Four stages of combustion, Delay period and its importance, Effect of engine
variables, Diesel Knock, Need for air movement, suction, Compression and
combustion induced turbulence, Open and divided combustion chambers and
nozzles used, Fuel requirements and fuel rating.
UNIT – IV
TESTING AND PERFORMANCE
Parameters of performance, Measurement of cylinder pressure, Fuel consumption, Air
intake, Exhaust gas composition, Brake power, Determination of frictional losses and
indicated power, Performance test, Heat balance sheet, Volumetric efficiency.
RECIPROCATING AIR COMPRESSORS
Classification; Reciprocating Compressor: Principle of operation, Work required,
Isothermal efficiency, Volumetric efficiency and effect of clearance, Multi stage
compression with inter cooling, Saving of work, Minimum work condition for stage
compression.
UNIT –V
INTRODUCTION TO REFRIGERATION CYCLE AND PSYCHROMETRIC
PROPERTIES
Refrigeration cycles - Vapor compression refrigeration cycle, Bell Colman refrigeration
cycle, Vapour Absorption Refrigeration System
Psychrometric properties - Dry bulb temperature, Wet bulb temperature, Dew point
temperature, Specific humidity, Relative humidity, Degree of saturation, Specific
enthalpy, Psychrometric chart, Psychrometric processes.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. I. C. Engines by V. Ganesan; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Thermal Engineering by Rathod; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Thermal Engineering by Rajput; Publisher: Lakshmi Publication
2. Refrigeration & Air Conditioning by C.P. Arora
3. I.C. Engines by Heywood; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
98
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MED1118) HYDRAULIC MACHINES
Course prerequisites:
Course Objectives:
 To understanding the principle of impulse movement on the vanes
 Principles of operation of different types of hydraulic turbines and their
performance.
 Knowledge on the operation of different types of pumps and their
performance.
 Principle of working of different hydraulic devices and systems,
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Analysis of the impact force acting on the different vanes.
 Understanding the model analysis of hydraulic turbines and select
appropriate turbines for hydro power plant.
 Understanding the model analysis of pumps and select appropriate pumps
for irrigation and other fields.
 Understanding the working of different hydraulic devices and systems.
UNIT — I
IMPACT OF WATER JETS:
Hydrodynamic force of jets on stationary and moving flat, inclined and curved vanes,
jet striking centrally and at tip-velocity triangles at inlet and outlet expressions for work
done and efficiency - angular momentum principle -applications to radial flow turbines
UNIT — II
HYDRAULIC TURBINES:
Classification of Water turbines - Pelton Wheel - Work done and working proportions,
Francis, Kaplan - work done and working proportions - draft tubes types
PERFORMANCE OF TURBINES:
Performance under unit head - unit quantities -performance under specific
conditions - specific speed - performance characteristic curves - model testing of
turbines - cavitation governing of turbines.
UNIT — III
RECIPROCATING PUMPS:
Main components and working of reciprocating pump- types of reciprocating - effect
of acceleration head in suction and delivery pipes - effect of friction - maximum
vacuum pressure, work saved by air vessels - rate of flow into and from air vessels -
pump duty. Pumps-power required driving the pump, coefficient of discharge and
slipping indicator diagram
99
UNIT — IV
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS:
Types Component parts and working-work done by the impeller-Manometric head -
losses and efficiencies - effect of vane angle on manometric efficiency - effect of finite
number of vanes of the impeller on head and efficiency - minimum starting speed - loss
of head due to reduced or increased flow - diameters of impeller and pipes. Specific
speed - Model testing of pumps - Multistage Pumps - Pumps in parallel - performance of
pumps - characteristics curves - NPSH - Cavitation, priming devices - pump troubles
and remedies.
UNIT—V
HYDRAULIC DEVICES:
Hydraulic accumulator, Hydraulic Intensifier - Hydraulic ram, Hydraulic press,
Hydraulic lift, Hydraulic crane - hydraulic couplings and torque converters - Air lift
pump.
HYDRAULIC SYSTEMS:
Transmission of power through pipes: Condition for maximum power, Transmission - Gear
and Vane pumps, Hydraulic valves, fluids and hydraulic piping.
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Hydraulics and Hydraulic Machines by Modi and Seth.
2. Fluid Mechanics and Fluid Power Engineering by D. S. Kumar; Publisher: S. K.
Kataria and Sons
REFERENCES:
1. Elements of Hydraulic Machines and Fluidics by Jagdish Lal
2. Fluid Mechanics by F. M. White
3. Fluid Mechanics & Hydraulic Machines by S. K. Som & Biswas; Publisher:
Tata McGraw Hill.
100
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(MED1205) FLUID MECHANICS AND HYDRAULIC MACHINES LAB
Course prerequisites: Fluid Mechanics& Hydraulic Machines course
Course Objectives:
 Analyzing the experiments to understand the concept, find the values and
obtain the result of experiments.
 Apply fundamental principles of fluid mechanics for the solution of practical
mechanical engineering problems of water conveyance in pipes, orifices,
mouth pieces, notches & weirs.
 Analyzing various pumps, water turbines, pipes and pressure measurement
devices.
 Evaluating efficiency for pumps and turbines.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 To apply fundamental equations of fluid mechanics for turbines and pumps.
 Model and analyze fluid flow problems in mechanical engineering.
 To create a model of fluid flow equipments.
 Evaluate the experimental results with theoretical concepts.
Any 10 experiments to be conducted from the following:
1. Verification of Bernoulli’s theorem
2. Calibration of Venturimeter - Orifice meter.
3. Calibration of triangle notches.
4. Determination of friction factor for a given pipe line.
5. Determination of Minor losses for the given equipment
6. Impact of jets on vanes.
7. Performance test on Pelton wheel.
8. Performance test on Francis turbine.
9. Performance test on Kaplan turbine.
10. Performance test on single stage centrifugal pump.
11. Performance test on multi stage centrifugal pump.
12. Performance test on reciprocating pump.
101
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(MED1211) APPLIED THERMODYNAMICS LAB
Course prerequisites: Thermodynamics, Thermal Engineering
Course Objectives:
 To measure the Performance parameters and draw its characteristic curve for a
diesel engine.
 To measure the Performance parameters and draw its characteristic curve for a
petrol engine.
 To measure the Performance parameters of reciprocating compressor.
 To evaluate the COP of refrigeration and Air conditioning system.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 To measure the Performance parameters like Brake Power, Indicated
Power,friction power ,specific fuel consumption ,volume flow rate of air into the
engine cylinder and specific heat of the exhaust gases.They will also be able to
calculate the various heat losses in the engine.
 To measure the Performance parameters like Brake Power, Indicated Power,
friction power ,specific fuel consumption ,volume flow rate of air into the cylinder
and specific heat of the exhaust gases and draw its characteristic curve for a
petrol engine.
 To measure the Performance parameters of reciprocating compressor like mass
flow rate of air in the compressor, power consumed by the compressor,
volumetric efficiency and Isothermal efficiency.
 To evaluate the COP of refrigeration system based on the experimental
value as well as the P-H chart. They will be able to evaluate COP Air
conditioning system based on the experimental value and by using the
Psychrometric chart for air.
Any 10 experiments to be conducted from the following:
1. I.C. Engines Valve / Port Timing Diagrams
2. I.C. Engines Performance Test (4 -Stroke Diesel Engines)
3. I.C. Engines Performance Test on 2-Stroke Petrol Engines
4. Evaluation of Engine friction by conducting Morse test on 4-Stroke Multi cylinder
Petrol
5. I.C. Engines Heat Balance.
6. I.C.Engines Air/Fuel Ratio and Volumetric Efficiency.
7. Performance Test on Reciprocating Air – Compressor Unit
8. Study of Boilers.
102
9. Dis-assembly / Assembly of Engines.
10. Determination of optimum cooling water temperature on I.C.Engine
11. Performance test on Air conditioning Test Rig
12. Performance test on Refrigeration test rig
103
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ II Sem L T/P/D C
2 0 0
(NCC1101) HUMAN VALUES AND PROFESSIONAL ETHICS
Course Description
Objectives
To develop the ability to distinguish between what is of value and what is superficial in
life.To develop the ability to face difficult situations in life boldly and resolve them
confidently. To enable students to progress from discrimination to commitment.
To encourage the students to understand values in life.
Course Objectives:
 Create an awareness on Engineering Ethics and Human Values
 Study the moral issues and decisions confronting individuals and
organizations engaged in engineering profession
 Study the related issues about the moral ideals, character, policies, and
relationships of people and corporations involved in technological activity
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Learn the moral issues and problems in engineering; find the solution to
those problems
 Learn the need for professional ethics, codes of ethics and roles, concept of
safety, risk assessment
 Gain exposure to Environment Ethics & computer ethics; know their
responsibilities and rights
Syllabus
1. Self-confidence
2. Peer Pressure-Irregular life style
3. The Power of Self- determination
4. Human relationship—trust and respect- resolving conflict
5. Anger-A sign of helplessness
6. Interaction and ragging
7. Right Utilization of physical facilities
8. Unhappiness -Unfulfilled expectations
9. Setting goals- long term and short term goals-handling responsibilities
10. Dealing with people while coordinating work
11. Coping with stress-Identifying one’s interests and strengths
12. Time Management-Planning and aligning with one’s goals
13. Skills and Values
14. The role of values in Society
104
Course Book
The resource material that has been prepared by IIIT can be used apart from material
that is available in the websites. Later text books can be identified for the facility of the
students.
Evaluation
This course would only have a pass/ fail grade. Participation in discussions,
submission of assignments and weekly reports and a final report will be used in
evaluation.
Outcome
At the end of the course the students would become sensitive towards human values.
They would understand commitment and responsibility. They would be able to bring
harmony in the society they live.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Mike Martin and Roland Schinzinger, “Ethics in Engineering”, McGraw -Hill,
New York 1996.
2. Govindarajan M, Natarajan S, Senthil Kumar V. S, “Engineering Ethics”,
Prentice Hall of India, New Delhi, 2004
REFERENCES
1. Charles D. Fleddermann, “Engineering Ethics”, Pearson Education / Prentice
Hall, New Jersey, 2004 (Indian Reprint now available).
2. Charles E Harris, Michael S. Protchard and Michael J Rabins, “Engineering
Ethics–Concepts and Cases”, Wadsworth Thompson Leatning, United
States, 2000 (Indian Reprint now available)
3. John R Boatright, “Ethics and the Conduct of Business”, Pearson Education,
New Delhi, 2003.
4. Edmund G Seebauer and Robert L Barry, “Fundamentals of Ethics for
Scientists and Engineers”, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2001.
5. Naagarazan, R.S. ‘A Textbook on Professional Ethics and Human Values’
2006.
105
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MTH1104) NUMERICAL ANALYSIS AND LINEAR PROGRAMMING
Course prerequisites: Elementary Row Transformations of Matrices, Differentiation
and Integration
Course Objectives:
 Understand the numerical methods for non linear systems, evaluating definite
integrals and ordinary differential equations.
 Understand various methods of interpolation.
 Understand the simplex method and methods to solve the transportation
problem.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Apply the numerical methods to find a root of algebraic and transcendental
equations.
 Apply the numerical methods to find the solutions of ordinary differential
equations.
 Use simplex method procedure to optimize a linear function.
 Solve transportation problems
NUMERICAL ANALYSIS
UNIT-I
Solutions of non-linear systems
Introduction; Mathematical preliminaries; Solution of algebraic and transcendental
equations – the bisection method, the method of false position, the iteration
method,Newton - Raphson method, and their order of convergence.
UNIT II
Interpolation
Introduction; Errors in polynomial interpolation; Finite differences; Forward differences;
Backward differences; Central differences; Symbolic relations and separation of
symbols; Differences of a polynomial; Newton’s formulae for interpolation; Central
difference interpolation formulae; Gauss’s central difference formulae; Lagrange and
Hermite interpolation formulae; Cubic spline interpolation.
UNIT III
Numerical Integration
Trapezoidal rule, Simpson’s 1/3 rule, and Simpson’s 3/8 rule.
106
Numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations
Solution of initial value problems by Taylor’s series - Picard’s method of successive
approximations, Euler’s method, and Runge - Kutta methods; Predictor Corrector
methods - Adams Moulton method, and Milne’s method.
UNIT IV
Numerical solutions of partial differential equations (PDE)
Introduction; Classification of second order PDE; Approximation of derivatives by finite
difference method; Solution of Laplace equation - Jacobi’s method, Gauss-Seidal
(Leibmann’s) method, Solution of parabolic equations by explicit and crank Nicolson
implicit scheme method; Solution of hyperbolic equations.
LINEAR PROGRAMMING
UNIT V
Linear programming
linear programming - Basic concepts; -problem formulation, graphical method,
canonical and standard forms of LPP simplex method, Artificial variables techniques- M
method, Transportation problems: Balanced transportation problem-North-West corner
rule, Least cost method, Vogel’s approximation method and MODI method.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Elementary Numerical Analysis – an algorithmic approach by Samuel D. Conte
and Carl De Boor (2006); 3rd edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Elementary Numerical Analysis by Dr. B.S.Grewal, 4th edition, Publisher:
Khanna Publishers
3. Operations Research: Theory and Applications by Kanthi Swaroop, 4th edition,
Macmillan Publishers India Ltd.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher:
John Wiley and Sons.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher:
Cengage Lear
107
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(MED1114) PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY
Course prerequisites: Material science, Manufacturing Science.
Course Objectives:
 Understand metal joining techniques.
 Understand the principles involved in ferrous and non-ferrous casting design
 Understand cold and hot working of metals and processing of non-metals like
plastics.
 Understand the joining processes with solid state welding, cold weklding etc.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Design castings taking into considerations of different moulds and their
preparations.
 Design different welded joints applying it to different welding processes and
able to conduct different types of tests on weldments.
 Produce various components from cutting and shaping operations.
 Design concepts of various press tools.
UNIT – I
CASTING:
Steps involved in making a casting; Advantage of casting and its applications; Pattern
and core making; Types of patterns – Materials used for patterns; Pattern allowances
and their construction; Principles of Gating, Gating ratio and design of gating systems.
Solidification of casting; Concept; Solidification of pure metal and alloys; Risers; Types;
Function and design; Casting design considerations; Quality testing and inspection of
castings; Special casting processes; Centrifugal, Die, Investment casting; Melting
furnaces.
UNIT – II
WELDING:
Classification of welding process types of welds and welded joints and their
characteristics, design of welded joints, Gas welding, ARC welding, Forge welding,
resistance welding, Thermit welding and Plasma welding
Inert Gas welding, TIG & MIG, welding, Friction stir welding, Induction welding,
Explosive welding, Laser welding, Soldering & Brazing. Heat affected zones in welding;
welding defects – causes and remedies – destructive nondestructive testing of welds.
UNIT –III
MECHANICAL WORKING -1:
Hot working; Cold working; Strain hardening; Recovery; Recrystallisation and grain
growth; Comparison of properties of cold and hot worked parts
108
ROLLING:
Rolling fundamentals; Theory of rolling; Types of Rolling mills and products; Forces in
rolling and power requirements.
EXTRUSION:
Basic extrusion process and its characteristics; Hot extrusion and Cold extrusion;
Forward extrusion and backward extrusion – Impact extrusion; Hydrostatic extrusion;
Extrusion defects.
FORGING PROCESSES:
Principles of forging; Tools and dies; Types of Forging; Smith forging; Drop Forging;
Roll forging; Forging hammers; Rotary forging; Forging defects.
UNIT – IV
MECHANICAL WORKING -2:
Stamping, forming and other cold working processes : Blanking and piercing; Bending
and forming; Drawing and its types; Wire drawing and Tube drawing; Coining; Hot and
cold spinning; Types of presses and press tools; Forces and power requirement in the
above operations.
UNIT – V
PLASTIC MATERIALS AND PROCESS:
Types of plastics; Compression moulding; Injection moulding; Blow moulding; Film and
Sheet forming; Thermoforming.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Manufacturing Technology by P.N. Rao
REFERENCES:
1. Production Technology by R.K. Jain
2. Manufacturing Engineering and Technology by Kalpak Jian S
3. Process and Materials of Manufacturing by Lindberg/PE
4. Principles of Metal Castings by Rosenthal.
5. Welding Process by Parmar
6. Production Technology by Sharma P C
109
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(MED1115) DYNAMICS OF MACHINERY
Course prerequisites: Engineering mechanics, Kinematics of Machinery
Course Objectives:
 Study the construction methods like Klien’s, velocity polygons, acceleration
diagrams etc for drawing various mechanisms.
 Identify the significance of the principles of equilibrium, super position, virtual
work& D’Alembert’s principle.
 Familiarize with the methods of static &dynamic stability.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Show the engineering applications involving the selection and design of
machine components with respect to the forces developed.
 Check whether the proposed design is satisfactory.
 Analyze and design flywheels, governors and gyroscopes to withstand
forces.
 Understand the impact of vibrations and balancing in practical applications
UNIT-I
PRECESSION:
Gyroscopes, effect of precessional motion on the stability of moving vehicles such as
motor car, motor cycle, aeroplanes and ships.
STATIC AND DYNAMIC FORCE ANALYSIS OF PLANAR MECHANISMS:
(NEGLECTING FRICTION)
Introduction-free body diagrams-conditions of equilibrium-two and three force
members-Inertia forces and D’Alembert’s principle-planar rotation about a fixed centre.
SYNTHESIS OF LINKAGES:
Three position synthesis- four position synthesis- precision positions-structural error-
Chebyshev’s spacing, Freudenstein’s Equation, problems.
UNIT-II
CLUTCHES:
Friction clutches, Single disc or plate clutch, multiple disc clutch, cone clutch&
centrifugal clutch.
BRAKES AND DYNAMOMETERS:
Simple block brakes, internal expanding brake, band brake of vehicle.
Dynamometers - absorption and transmission types- general description and method of
operation.
110
UNIT-III
TURNING MOMENT DIAGRAMS AND FLYWHEELS:
TURNING MOMENT:
Inertia torque-angular velocity and acceleration of connecting rod, crank effort and
torque diagrams- Fluctuation of energy-design of flywheels.
GOVERNORS:
Watt, Porter and Proell governors, Spring loaded governors- Hartnell and Hartung with
auxiliary springs, Sensitiveness, isochronism and hunting.
UNIT-IV
BALANCING:
Balancing of rotating masses – single and multiple-single and different planes-
balancing of reciprocating masses-primary and secondary balancing- analytical and
graphical methods.
UNBALANCED FORCES AND COUPLES:
Balancing of V, multi cylinder inline and radial engines for primary, secondary
balancing and locomotive balancing.
UNIT-V
VIBRATIONS:
Free vibration of mass attached to a vertical spring - simple problems on forced
damped vibration. . Vibration isolation and transmissibility-
Whirling of shafts, critical speeds, torsional vibrations, two and three rotor systems.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Theory of Machines by Thomas Bevan; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Theory of Machines by S. S. Ratan; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Theory of Machines and Mechanisms by P. L. Ballaney; Publisher: Khanna.
2. Mechanism and Machine Theory by J. S. Rao and R. V. Dukkipati; Publisher:
New Age.
3. Kinematics and Dynamics of Machinery by R. L. Norton; Publisher: McGraw
Hill.
4. Theory of Machines and Mechanisms by Uicker, Pennock & Shigley;
Publisher: Oxford.
111
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(MED1116) ENGINEERING DESIGN BASICS
Course prerequisites: Maths, Physics, Engineering Mechanics, Solid Mechanics,
Metallurgy & Materials Science, kinematics of Machinery.
Course Objectives:
 Understand different properties of Materials and relationship between them.
 Understand the principles of stress, strain and Principal stresses as
applied to Solid bodies or structural and machine elements under loads.
 Understand to form mathematical equation and analyze problems by
making appropriate assumptions and learn systematic engineering method
to solve practical Design engineering problems.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret data.
 Design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within
realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical,
health and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability.
 Function on multi disciplinary teams.
 Identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems.
UNIT I
ENGINEERING MATERIALS AND DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS
The Design Phase / Methodology, and identification of need, Evaluation and
Presentation, Reliability and Product liability. Mechanical Properties of Engineering
Materials, overall design considerations, Factor safety, Preferred Numbers. Standard
and codes, design data handbook. Load, stress and critical sections in machine parts.
Static strength, plastic deformation, temperature properties, Definition of stress, simple
stress, combined stress, complex stress. Members subjected to axial, bending, torsion
and shear loading, impact stresses.
UNIT II
DESIGN AGAINST FLUCTUATING LOAD
Stress concentration, stress concentration factors, Reduction stress concentration,
fluctuating stresses. Fatigue strength, Endurance Limit, fatigue test, S-N diagrams for
different structural materials. Low cycle and high cycle fatigue, Notch sensitivity,
Design for finite and infinite life. Soderberg and Goodman lines the fatigue strength,
modified Goodman theory, soderberg theory, Gerber theory
112
UNIT III
DESIGN OF FASTENERS
Temporary Fasteners (Bolted and Screwed Fasteners)
Bolted joints, bolted joint under initial loading, eccentrically loaded Bolted Joints under
different static load conditions.
Permanent Fasteners (Riveted and Welded Fasteners)
Riveted Joints, eccentrically loaded Riveted Joints, Design of Boiler Riveted joints, and
Welding symbols, butt and fillet welds, stress in the welded joints carries tension
bending and shear loading, Design of various types of Welding joints and eccentrically
loaded welded joints under different static load conditions.
UNIT IV
DESIGN OF FLEXIBLE MECHANICAL ELEMENTS
Belt Drives:
Introduction, classification of belts, belt materials, design of flat (rectangular) belts, ratio
of belt tensions, V-Belts, power transmitted through V-Belt, design of V-Belts and
timing belts.
Springs:
Classification of springs, spring material, Design of helical, leaf, disc and tensional
springs under constant loads and varying loads.
UNIT V
DESIGN OF SHAFTS AND KEYS
Transmission shafts, Design of solid and hollow shafts based on strength, rigidity and
Flexible shafts, shaft and axles – key and classification of keys, stresses in the keys,
design considerations, effect of key way on the shaft strength.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Design of Machine Elements by Bhandari; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Mechanical Engineering Design by Shigley J. E and Mischke C. R; Publisher:
Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering design by George E Dieter; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Machine Design - An Integrated Approach by Robert L.Norton; Publisher:
Addison Wesley.
3. Fundamentals of Machine Component Design by Juvinall R. C and Marshek
K. M; Publisher: John Wiley and Sons
113
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(MED1122) HEAT AND MASS TRANSFER
Course prerequisites: Basic integral and differential calculus, thermodynamics
Course Objectives:
 To understand different modes of heat transfer in physical environment under
various conditions.
 To develop the equations governing the phenomena of heat transfer.
 To apply these equations to analyze problems by making good
assumptions and solve practical heat transfer problems.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Understanding of different modes of heat transfer in physical environment
under various conditions.
 Developing of equations governing the phenomena of heat transfer as well as
approach to numerical estimation of heat flow.
 Apply governing equations to analyze problems with proper assumptions and
solve practical heat transfer problems.
 Design of various heat equipments on the basis of physical conditions and
improve the efficiency.
UNIT-I
INTRODUCTION:
Modes and mechanisms of heat transfer - Basic laws of heat transfer - Simple general
discussion about applications of heat transfer. Conduction Heat Transfer: Fourier heat
conduction equation - General heat conduction equation in Cartesian, Cylindrical and
Spherical coordinates - simplification and forms of the field equation steady, unsteady
and periodic heat transfer - Initial and boundary conditions.
UNIT-II
ONE DIMENSIONAL STEADY STATE CONDUCTION HEAT TRANSFER:
Homogeneous slabs, hollow cylinders and sphere - overall heat transfer coefficient -
electrical analogy - Critical radius of insulation - variable Thermal conductivity -
systems with heat sources or Heat generation - extended surfaces and fins. One
Dimensional Transient Conduction Heat Transfer: Systems with negligible internal
resistance - chart solutions of transient conduction systems.
UNIT-III
CONVECTIVE HEAT TRANSFER:
Classification of systems based on causation of flow, condition of flow, configuration of
flow and medium of flow - Dimensional analysis as a tool for experimental investigation
- Concepts about hydrodynamic and thermal boundary layers - Buckingham Pi-
114
Theorem and method, application for developing Semi - empirical non-dimensional
correlation for convection heat transfer - Significance of non -dimensional numbers -
use of empirical correlations for convective heat transfer- Forced Convection: Flat
plates and horizontal pipes. Free Convection: Vertical plates and pipes.
UNIT-IV
HEAT TRANSFER WITH PHASE CHANGE:
Heat transfer with boiling - pool boiling and film boiling - boiling curve for pool boiling -
simple correlations for pool boiling - Condensation plates heat transfer: film wise and
drop wise condensation - film condensation on vertical and horizontal cylinders using
empirical correlations.
RADIATION HEAT TRANSFER:
Emission characteristics and laws of black-body radiation - incident radiation - total and
monochromatic quantities -laws of Planck, Wien, Kirchoff, Lambert, Stefan and
Boltzmann - heat exchange between two black bodies -concepts of shape factor -
emissivity - heat exchange between grey bodies - radiation shields - electrical analogy
for radiation net works.
UNIT V
HEAT EXCHANGERS:
Classification of heat exchangers - overall and fouling resistance - problems using
LMTD and NTU methods.
INTRODUCTION TO MASS TRANSFER:
Analogy between heat, mass and momentum transfer - classification: Diffusion and
convective mass transfer processes - Examples - Fick's Law of diffusion simple
problems for steady state molecular diffusion - Convection mass transfer coefficient -
non-dimensional numbers of mass transfer analogous to convection heat transfer
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Fundamentals of Engineering Heat and Mass Transfer by R.C. Sachdeva;
Publisher: New Age International.
2. Heat and Mass Transfer Data book by C.P. Kothandaraman; Publisher: New
Age.
REFERENCES:
1. Heat Transfer by OZSIK
2. Heat Transfer by HOLMAN
3. Heat Transfer by Sukhatme; Publisher: University Press.
4. Heat and Mass Transfer by D. S. Kumar
5. Fundamentals of Heat & Mass Transfer by Incopera & Dewitt
115
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MED1149) OPERATIONS RESEARCH
Course prerequisites: Mathematics, Industrial Engineering
Course Objectives:
 To impart the knowledge on solving problems Assignment, Transportation,
Sequencing, Replacement, Inventory and Queuing problems
 Understand the knowledge on theory of games
 Impart the knowledge on linear programming
 Understand the knowledge involved in dynamic programming and simulation
models
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Analyze Assignment, Transportation, Sequencing, Replacement, Inventory
and Queuing problems.
 Apply Theory of games in various applications.
 Evaluate the Problems using Linear Programming.
 Apply dynamic programming problem solving and simulation models.
UNIT-I
INTRODUCTION:
Origin, Development-Definition-Characteristics and Phases-Types of OR models-
applications, limitations.
ALLOCATION:
Linear Programming Problem Formulation- Graphical solution-Simplex method-Artificial
variables technique-Two phase method, Big-M Method-Duality Principle.
UNIT-II
TRANSPORTATION PROBLEM:
Formulation-Optimal solution-unbalanced transportation problem-Degeneracy.
Assignment problem-Formulation-Optimal solution-Variations of Assignment Problem-
Travelling Salesman Problem.
Sequencing: Introduction-Flow Shop sequencing-n jobs through two machines-n jobs
through three machines-Job shop sequencing-two jobs through m machines.
UNIT-III
REPLACEMENT:
Introduction-Replacement of items that deteriorate with time-when money value is not
counted and counted-Replacement of items that fail completely, group replacement.
116
THEORY OF GAMES:
Introduction-Minimax (maximin) - criterion and optimal strategy-Solution of games with
saddle points-Rectangular games without saddle points-principles of dominance-
m*2and 2*n games-graphical method.
UNIT-IV
WAITING LINES:
Introduction-Single channel-Poisson arrivals-exponential service times-with infinite
population and finite population models-Multichannel-Poisson arrivals-exponential
service times with infinite population single channel Poisson arrivals.
INVENTORY:
Introduction-Single item-Deterministic models-Purchase inventory models with one
price break and multiple price breaks-shortages not allowed-Stochastic models-
demand may be discrete variable or continuous variable-Instantaneous production,
Instantaneous demand and continuous demand and no set up cost-single period
model.
UNIT-V
DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING:
Introduction-Terminology-Bellman’s Principle of optimality- Applications of dynamic
programming- shortest path problem-linear programming problem.
SIMULATION:
Definition-Types of simulation models-phases of simulation-applications of simulation-
Inventory and Queuing problems-Advantages and Disadvantages-Brief Introduction of
Simulation Languages.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Operations Research by J.K.Sharma; Publisher: Mac Milan.
2. Operations Research by R. Pannerselvam; Publisher: Prentice Hall
International.
REFERENCES:
1. Operations Research by A. M. Natarajan, P.Balasubramani, A.Tamilarasi;
Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Operations Research: Methods and Problems by Maurice Saseini, Arthur
Yaspan and Lawrence Friedman
3. Introduction to OR by Taha; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
4. Operations Research by Wagner; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
5. Operations Research by S.D.Sharma-Kedarnath
6. O.R Wayne L. Winston by Thomson; Publisher: Brooks/Cole
7. Introduction to O.R by Hiller and Liebermann; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
117
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(MED1204) PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY LAB
Course prerequisites: Production Technology.
Course Objectives:
 Understand and evaluate casting techniques and sand properties.
 Understand different welding processes and their use.
 Understand different press working operations
 Understand about the processing of plastics.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Summarize the knowledge of molding techniques and be in a position to
prepare molds for casting.
 Summarize the knowledge of joining techniques and can able to perform
welding.
 Classify various types of press working operations and can able to perform
the press working operations.
 Interpret the knowledge in processing of plastics and can able to perform the
experiments.
Minimum 12 exercises to be performed from the following:
1. METAL CASTING:
 Pattern Design and making - for one casting drawing.
 Sand properties testing - Exercise -for strengths, and permeability – 1
 Moulding Melting and Casting - 1 Exercise
2. WELDING:
 Arc Welding Lap and Butt Joint - 2 Exercises
 Spot Welding - 1 Exercise
 TIG Welding - 1 Exercise
 MIG Welding - 1 Exercise
 Plasma welding and Brazing - 2 Exercises
3. MECHANICAL PRESS WORKING:
 Blanking and Piercing operation and study of simple, compound and
progressive press tool.
 Hydraulic Press: Deep drawing and extrusion operation.
 Bending and other operations
4. PROCESSING OF PLASTICS:
 Injection Moulding
 Blow Moulding
118
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(MED1208) HEAT AND MASS TRANSFER LAB
Course prerequisites: Heat and Mass Transfer, Thermodynamics
Course Objectives:
 Understand various modes of heat transfer experimentally.
 Understand calculations of heat transfer co-efficient in difference systems.
 Understand factors affecting the heat transfer rate.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Evaluate critical thickness of insulation to minimize heat lost.
 Evaluate thermal conductivity of lagged pipe , metal bar and insulating
powder
 Evaluate Heat transfer coefficient for natural and forced convection
 Evaluate emissivity of the given metal
Any 10 experiments to be conducted from the following:
1. Thermal Conductivity of given Metal Rod
2. Stefan Boltzmann Apparatus.
3. Critical Heat Flux Apparatus
4. Composite Wall Overall Heat Transfer Co-Efficient.
5. Heat Transfer through Lagged Pipe.
6. Heat Transfer in Forced Convection Apparatus.
7. Heat Transfer in Natural Convection
8. Thermal Conductivity of Insulation Powder.
9. Parallel and Counter Flow Heat Exchanger.
10. Emissivity Apparatus.
11. Study of Heat Pipe and its Demonstration.
12. Heat Transfer in pin-fin
13. Heat Transfer in Drop and Film Wise Condensation
R12
119
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(CED1105) ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
Course prerequisites: General Science
Course Objectives:
 Develop an understanding of the necessity of protection of environment.
 Develop an understanding of Natural resources.
 Develop an understanding of Biodiversity.
 Develop an understanding of Global Environmental problems.
 Develop an understanding of Environmental pollution.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Acquire the knowledge on environment.
 List and distinguish between different Natural Resources.
 Develop skills in understanding of various environmental problems.
 Find the solution and strategies to protect the Environment.
UNIT-I
Introduction, Definition, scope and importance, Ecosystems: Introduction, types,
characteristic features, structure and functions of ecosystems. Bio geo chemical cycle,
Classification of Eco system.
UNIT-II
Natural Resources :classification of Resources, Land resources, Land as resource,
Common property resources, Land degradation, Soil erosion and desertification,
Effects of modern agriculture, fertilizer –pesticide problems, Forest resources, Use and
over-exploitation.
Mining and dams – their effects on forest and tribal people, Water resources, Use and
over- utilization of surface and groundwater, Floods, droughts, Water logging and
salinity, Dams –benefits and costs, Conflicts over Water. Energy resources, Energy
resources.
UNIT III
Bio-diversity and its conservation, Value of bio-diversity -consumptive and productive
use, social, ethical, aesthetic and option values, Bio-geographical classification of India
– India as a mega diversity habitat, Threats to bio-diversity –Hot-spots, habitat loss,
poaching of wild life, loss of species, seeds, etc. Conservation of bio-diversity – Insitu
and Ex-situ conservation.
UNIT IV
Environmental Pollution –Local and Global Issues,Nature of thermal pollution and
nuclear hazards, Global warming, Acid rain,Ozone depletion., Environmental case
studies:.
120
UNIT-V
Environmental Problems in India,Drinking water, sanitation and public health,Effects of
the activities on the quality of environment, Water scarcity and groundwater
depletion,Controversies on major dams – resettlement and rehabilitation of people:
problems and concerns,Rain water harvesting, cloud seeding and watershed
management. Economy and Environment,The economy and environment
interaction,Economics of development, preservation and conservation, Sustainability:
theory and practices,Limits to growth,Equitable use of resources for sustainable life
styles, Environmental Impact Assessment.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Environmental studies-A.Y.Anjaneyulu
2. Environmental studies-Deeksha dave
3. Environmental sciences and management-Venugopal
121
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(MED1117) MACHINE TOOLS
Course prerequisites: Production Technology, Engineering Materials
Course Objectives:
 Understand Material removal processes, classification of machine tools and
types of cutting tools used for performing different operations.
 Understand the principle of working of lathe machine, special purpose lathe &
construction, working of reciprocating machine tools, milling operations,
grinding & finishing operations.
 Understanding the Need for going to Non-Traditional Machining process &
necessity of jigs & fixtures.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Understand the knowledge on metal cutting and be in a position to adopt the
suitable machining process that are suitable for different materials
 Identify various cutting tools used for performing various machining
processes which are applicable for manufacturing sector
 Decide the sequence of operations for Lathe and it’s types ,shaper, planer,
slotting, milling, hole making, grinding, sawing, broaching ,gear cutting and
Super finishing operations .
 Know the various types of Non-Traditional machining methods which are
applicable for different metals, non- metals and alloys.
UNIT – I
INTRODUCTION
Material removal processes, Types of Machine Tools; Single and multi point cutting
tools.
METAL CUTTING
Introduction, Chip Formation, Shear Zone, Orthogonal Cutting, Shear Angle and Its
Relevance, Cutting Tool Materials, Thermal Aspects, Tool Wear and Tool Life, Surface
Finish, Cutting Fluids, Empirical and Analytical Determination of Cutting Forces,
Economics.
MACHINE TOOLS
Classification of Machine Tools, Generation and Forming, Methods of Generating
Surfaces, Accuracy and Finish Achievable, Basic Elements of Machine Tools, Support
Structures, Guideways, General Work Holding Methods.
122
UNIT – II
MACHINE TOOLS:
CENTRE LATHE
Introduction, Constructional Features of a Centre Lathe, Aids for Support and Location,
Cutting Tools, Operations Performed in a Centre Lathe, Taper Turning Methods,
Thread Cutting Methods, Special Attachments, Machining Time and Power Estimation
Typical Set-ups.
SPECIAL PURPOSE LATHES
Limitations of a Centre Lathe, Capstan and Turret Lathes, Automatic Lathes, Tooling
Layout and CAM Design for Automatic Lathes.
RECIPROCATING MACHINE TOOLS
Introduction, Shaper, Planer, Slotter.
UNIT – III
MILLING
Introduction, Types of Milling Machines, Milling Cutters, Milling Operations, Dividing
Head, Milling Mechanics, Machining Time Estimation, Special Set-ups.
HOLE MAKING OPERATIONS
Introduction, Drilling, Reaming, Boring, Tapping, Other Hole Making Operations
UNIT IV
GRINDING & SUPERFINISHING PROCESSES
Introduction, Grinding Wheel – Designation and Selection, Types of Grinding
Machines, Grinding Process, Grinding Process Parameters, Creep Feed Grinding,
Honing, Lapping, Other Finishing Processes
UNIT V
UNCONVENTIONAL MACHINING PROCESSES
Need for Unconventional Processes, Overview on Electric Discharge Machining,
Electrochemical Machining, Ultrasonic Machining, Chemical Machining, Laser Beam
Machining, Water Jet Machining & Abrasive Jet Machining.
OTHER MACHINE TOOLS
Over view of Sawing, Broaching, Gear Cutting.
JIGS AND FIXTURES
Introduction, Principles of design of Jigs and fixtures, Principles of location, Locating
devices, Clamping devices, Typical examples of jigs and fixtures.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Manufacturing Technology, Vol. 2, Metal Cutting and Machine Tools by P N Rao;
Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Production Technology by HMT; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Manufacturing Engineering and Technology by Serope Kalpak Jian; Publisher:
Pearson Learning.
2. Production Technology by R. K. Jain & S. C. Gupta.
3. Workshop Technology- Vol. 2, by B. S. Raghuvamshi
123
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(MED1119) TURBOMACHINES
Course prerequisites: Mathematics, Engineering Basics, Thermal Engineering
Basics
Course Objectives:
 Analyze and understand various energy conversations that take place in a
turbo machines.
 Apply the principles of turbo machines.
 Evaluate governing mathematical equations to perform theoretical
calculations.
 Create a model for condensers, compressors and turbines.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 To apply fundamental equations of fluid mechanics for turbines and pumps.
 Model and analyze fluid flow problems in mechanical engineering.
 To create a model of fluid flow equipments.
 Evaluate the experimental results with theoretical concepts.
UNIT I
STEAM GENERATORS:
Introduction, Classification of Boilers , Working Principles of Fire Tube and Water Tube
Boilers, Low Pressure boilers, High Pressure Boilers – Babcock and Wilcox , Lamont
Boiler, Boiler draught and performance of boilers, Equivalent evaporation.
STEAM CONDENSORS:
Introduction, purpose and types of condensers. Efficiency of condenser, air pumps.
UNIT II
STEAM NOZZLES:
Functions of nozzle, applications, types, flow through nozzles, Thermodynamic
analysis, assumptions, velocity at nozzle exit, Ideal and actual expansion in nozzle,
velocity co-efficient, condition for maximum discharge, nozzle efficiency, Critical
pressure ratio, Supersaturated flow and its effects, degree of super saturation, degree
of under cooling, wilson line.
UNIT III
STEAM TURBINES:
Impulse turbine - Mechanical details, velocity diagram, effect of friction, power
developed, axial thrust, diagram efficiency, Condition for maximum efficiency, Methods
to reduce rotor speed - velocity compounding, pressure compounding, combined
velocity and pressure compounding, velocity and pressure variation along the flow.
124
Reaction Turbine - Mechanical details, principle of operation, Thermodynamic
analysis of a stage, Degree of reaction, velocity diagram, parson’s reaction turbine,
condition for maximum efficiency.
UNIT IV
ROTARY COMPRESSORS:
Working Principles of - Roots blower, vane blower and screw compressor.
CENTRIFUGAL COMPRESSORS:
Mechanical details and principle of operation, velocity and pressure variation. Energy
transfer. Impeller blade shape-losses, slip factor, power input factor, pressure co-
efficient and adiabatic co-efficient, velocity diagrams.
AXIAL FLOW COMPRESSORS:
Mechanical details and principle of operation, velocity triangles and energy transfer per
stage, degree of reaction, work done factor, Isentropic efficiency, pressure rise
calculations, Polytrophic efficiency.
UNIT V
GAS TURBINES:
Classification of Gas Turbines ,Ideal cycle, essential components ,parameters of
performance, actual cycle , regeneration ,inter cooling and reheating, closed and semi
closed cycles, merits and demerits, combustion chambers and turbines for Gas
Turbine plants.
JET PROPULSION:
Principle of operation, Classification of Jet propulsion engines, working principles with
schematic diagram and representation on T-s diagram, Thrust, Thrust power and
propulsion efficiency. Needs and demands met by Turbo Jet Engines, Schematic
diagram, Thermodynamic cycle, performance evaluation thrust augmentation methods.
ROCKETS:
Application - working principle, Classification, Propellant type, Thrust, Propulsive
efficiency – Specific impulse, solid and liquid propellant Rocket Engines.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Thermal Engineering by Rathod; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Gas Turbines by V. Ganesan; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Thermal Engineering by R.K Rajput; Publisher: Lakshmi Publications.
3. Thermal Engineering by P. L. Ballaney; Publisher: Khanna.
4. Fundamentals of Turbo Machinery by B. K. Venkanna; Publisher: Prentice
Hall International.
125
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(MED1120) MECHANICAL ENGINEERING DESIGN
Course prerequisites: Maths, Physics, Engineering Mechanics, Solid Mechanics,
Metallurgy & Materials Science, kinematics of Machinery.
Course Objectives:
 Remember the different properties of Materials and relationship between them.
 Analyze the principles of stress, strain and Principal stresses as applied
to Solid bodies or structural and machine elements under loads.
 Understand the influence of fluctuating loads in the design of mechanical
elements.
 Evaluate and analyze the problems by making appropriate assumptions
and learn systematic engineering method to solve practical Design
engineering problems and design components.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Model and analyze design problems in Mechanical and structural
engineering.
 Apply knowledge of standard elements and their technical information
available in the data bases and in designing machine elements.
 Predict modes of failure in materials or machine elements caused by
different types of loads under operation.
 Apply knowledge of design procedures to design the shafts, keys and springs.
UNIT – I
BEARINGS:
Types of Journal bearings – Lubrication – Bearing Modulus – Full and partial bearings
– Clearance ratio – Heat dissipation of bearings, bearing materials – journal bearing
design – Ball and roller bearings – Static loading of ball and roller bearings, Bearing
life, Bearing selection.
UNIT – II
ENGINE PARTS:
Pistons, Forces acting on piston – Construction, design and proportions of piston,
Cylinder, Cylinder liners.
CONNECTING ROD:
Thrust in connecting rod – stress due to whipping action on connecting rod ends –
Cranks and Crank shafts, strength and proportions of over hung & Overview of Center
cranks; Crank pins, Crank shafts.
126
UNIT – III
DESIGN OF CURVED BEAMS:
Introduction, stresses in curved beams, Expression for radius of neutral axis for
rectangular, circular, trapezoidal and T-Section. Design of crane hooks, C –clamps.
POWER TRANSMISSIONS SYSTEMS, PULLEYS:
Transmission of power by Belt and Rope drives, Transmission efficiencies, Belts – Flat
and V types – Ropes - pulleys for belt and
rope drives, Materials, Chain drives.
UNIT – VI
SPUR AND HELICAL GEAR DRIVES:
Spur gears- Helical gears – Load concentration factor – Dynamic load factor. Surface
compressive strength – Bending strength – Design analysis of spur gears – Estimation
of centre distance, module and face width, check for plastic deformation. Check for
dynamic and wear considerations.
UNIT – V
DESIGN OF BEVEL GEAR DRIVES:
Bevel gears – Load concentration factor – Dynamic load factor. Surface compressive
strength- Bending strength – Design analysis of Bevel gears- Estimation of centre
distance, module and face width, check for plastic deformation, Check for dynamic and
wear considerations.
DESIGN OF WORM GEAR DRIVES:
Worm gears – Properties of worm gears – Selection of materials – Strength and wear
rating of worm gears – Force analysis – Friction in worm gears – thermal
considerations.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Machine Design by V. Bhandari; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Machine Design by R. L. Norton
REFERENCES:
1. Mechanics of Materials (SI Units) by Beer & Johnson; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Data Books: P.S.G. College of Technology
3. Mechanical Engineering Design by J. E. Shigley
4. Machine Design by R. S. Khurmi & J. S. Gupta; Publisher: Sultan Chand.
5. Machine Design (SI Units) by Schaums Outline Series; Publisher: McGraw
Hill.
127
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MED1124) METROLOGY AND QUALITY CONTROL
Course prerequisites: Machine Drawing, Production Technology, machine tools,
Probability & Statistics.
Course Objectives:
 To understand the knowledge of limits, fits and tolerances
 To understand the use of various measuring instruments
 To understand the concepts of Quality, Quality Control and Statistical Quality
Control
 To apply SQC Techniques for problem solving
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 To understand the knowledge of limits, fits and tolerances.
 To understand the use of various measuring instruments.
 To understand the better knowledge about instrument transducers and their
design and construction.
 To learn about instrument installation and commissioning.
UNIT I
SYSTEMS OF LIMITS AND FITS:
Introduction, normal size, tolerance limits, deviations, allowance, fits and their types –
unilateral and bilateral tolerance system, hole and shaft basis systems –
interchangeability and selective assembly, slip gauges- Indian standard Institution
system – British standard system, International Standard system for plain work.
UNIT II
LIMIT GAUGES:
Taylors principle – Design of go and No go gauges, plug ring, snap, gap, taper, profile
and position gauges.
OPTICAL MEASURING INSTRUMENTS:
Tool maker’s microscope and its uses – collimators, optical projector.
SURFACE ROUGHNESS MEASUREMENT:
Differences between surface roughness and surface waviness-Numerical assessment
of surface finish – CLA,R, R.M.S Values – Rz values, Rz value, Methods of
measurement of surface finish-profilograph.
UNIT III
SCREW THREAD MEASUREMENT:
Element of measurement – errors in screw threads – measurement of effective
diameter, angle of thread and thread pitch.
128
GEAR MEASUREMENT:
Gear measuring instruments, Gear tooth profile measurement. Measurement of
diameter, pitch pressure angle and tooth thickness.
UNIT IV
QUALITY CONTROL:
Introduction - quality – quality control – significance- defect and defective – theory of
probability – basic concepts – probability distributions – simple problems
UNIT V
STATISTICAL QUALITY CONTROL:
Introduction – significance - elements of quality control – process control – control
limits – representations – control charts – control charts for variables – X and R charts
– control charts for attributes – C and P charts - steps involved in the constructions of
control charts – Acceptance sampling – sampling plans – simple problems –
applications and limitations of SQC.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Metrology by I C Gupta; Publisher: Dhanpat Rai
2. Engineering Metrology by R.K. Jain; Publisher: Khanna
3. Total Quality by Armand V. Feigenbaum; Publisher: McGraw Hill
REFERENCES:
1. BIS standards on Limits and Fits, Surface Finish, Machine Tool Alignment
etc.
2. Fundamentals of Dimensional Metrology by Connie Dotson Publisher:
Thomson
3. Statistical Quality Control by Eugene Grant; Publisher: McGraw Hill
4. Introduction to Statistical Quality Control by D. C. Montgomery; Publisher:
John Wiley Publications
129
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(EIE1128) INSTRUMENTATION AND CONTROL SYSTEMS
Course prerequisites: Metrology
Course Objectives:
 To provide basic knowledge to understand the transduction principles,
sensors, transducer and measurement systems.
 To provide better understanding of the Theoretical and Practical concepts of
automation in industries.
 To analyse different sensors and their application in real time applications
 To create the knowledge of various measurement methods of industrial
parameters like velocity, acceleration, torque, pressure, flow, temperature
etc. and control of the same
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Able to know instrumentation system used in the industry.
 Able to appreciate the automation with the help of instrumentation.
 Able to understand the experimental applications and selecting appropriate
engineering modules.
 Able to develop aptitude for self-learning and modern technical skills beyond
the curriculum.
UNIT I
Definition – Basic principles of measurement – Measurement systems, static
characteristics.
MEASUREMENT OF DISPLACEMENT:
Theory and construction of various transducers to measure displacement-Piezo
electric, Inductive, capacitance, resistance, ionization and Photo electric transducers.
MEASUREMENT OF SPEED:
Mechanical Tachometers – Electrical tachometers – Stroboscope, Noncontact type of
tachometer.
MEASUREMENT OF ACCELERATION AND VIBRATION:
Different simple instruments – Principles of Seismic instruments – Vibrometer and
accelerometer using this principle.
UNIT II
STRESS STRAIN MEASUREMENTS:
Various types of stress and strain measurements – electrical strain gauge – gauge
factor – method of usage of resistance strain gauge for bending compressive and
tensile strains – usage for measuring torque, Strain gauge Rosettes.
130
MEASUREMENT OF HUMIDITY:
Moisture content of gases, Sling psychrometer, Absorption psychrometer, Dew point
meter.
MEASUREMENT OF FORCE, TORQUE AND POWER:
Elastic force meters, load cells, Torsion meters, Dynamometers.
UNIT III
MEASUREMENT OF TEMPERATURE: Classification – Ranges – Various Principles
of measurement– Expansion, Electrical Resistance – Thermistor – Thermocouple –
Pyrometers – Temperature Indicators.
MEASUREMENT OF PRESSURE: Units – classification – different principles used.
Manometers, Piston, Bourdon pressure gauges, Bellows – Diaphragm gauges. Low
pressure measurement – Thermal conductivity gauges – ionization pressure gauges,
Mcleod pressure gauge.
MEASUREMENT OF LEVEL: Direct method – Indirect methods – capacitative,
ultrasonic, magnetic, cryogenic fuel level indicators – Bubler level indicators.
FLOW MEASUREMENT: Rotameter, magnetic, Ultrasonic, Turbine flow meter, Hot –
wire anemometer, Laser Doppler Anemometer (LDA).
UNIT IV
INTRODUCTION TO CONTROL SYSTEMS:
Introduction - basic components of a control system, control-system applications, open-
loop control systems (without feed-back systems), and closed-loop control systems
(with feedback systems); Example of open loop and closed loop systems. Feedback
and its effects - effect of feedback on overall gain, effect of feedback on stability, and
effect of feedback on external disturbance or noise; Classification of systems, nonlinear
characteristics of systems.
UNIT V
SYSTEM MODELING:
Transfer function (TF) Block diagram (BD) reduction techniques, Signal flow
graph(SFG), BD to TF, TF to BD, TF to SFG, SFG to TF conversions, Mathematical
Modeling of systems in translational and rotational motions, Analogy between different
types of systems like electrical, mechanical, pneumatic & hydraulic, DC motor transfer
function, signal flow graph, Working of Potentiometer, tachometer, servo motors,
synchros.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Measurement Systems: Applications & design by D. S. Kumar.
2. Mechanical Measurements by Beckwith, Marangoni & Linehard; Publisher:
Prentice Hall International/Pearson Education
REFERENCES:
1. Measurement systems: Application and Design, Doeblin Earnest. O.
Adaptation by Manik and Dhanesh; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill
2. Instrumentation and Control systems by S. Bhaskar; Publisher: Anuradha
Agencies.
131
3. Experimental Methods for Engineers by Holman.
4. Mechanical and Industrial Measurements by R.K. Jain; Publisher: Khanna
5. Instrumentation & Mechanical Measurements by A.K. Tayal; Publisher:
Galgotia
6. Instrumentation, Measurement & Analysis by B. C. Nakra & K. K. Choudhary,
Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill
7. Mechanical Measurements by Sahani
132
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(MED1206) MACHINE TOOLS AND METROLOGY LAB
Course prerequisites: Machine tools, Metrology and Engineering Materials
Course Objectives:
 Remember the working principles of various machine tools and their
accessories.
 Remember the significance of operating parameters and selection
of cutting tools for performing machining operations.
 Familiarize the calibration and measurement process.
 Impart the knowledge on characteristics of measuring instruments.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Perform various operations on various Machine tools
 Choose the appropriate cutting tools for various machining operations
 Measure the tolerances attained in different machining operations
 Perform analysis on the data attained from measuring instruments
MACHINE TOOLS: Any Six experiments
1. Introduction of general purpose machines - Lathe, Drilling machine, Milling
machine, Shaper, Planing machine, slotting machine, Cylindrical Grinder,
Surface grinder and Tool and cutter grinder.
2. Exercise on Facing, turning, step turning and taper turning on lathe machine
3. Exercise on Grooving, Thread cutting and knurling on lathe machine.
4. Exercise on Drilling, Boring, Counter boring, Counter sinking and Tapping
operations on drilling machine
5. Exercise on Shaping to prepare plain surfaces
6. Exercise on Slotting to prepare contour surfaces
7. Exercise on Milling to perform plain /gear cutting
8. Exercise on Cylindrical Surface Grinding
9. Exercise on Grinding of Tool angles.
Demonstration on
Different methods of Taper Turning, Boring, Collar turning, use of four jaw chuck on
lathe, Cutting of V - block on shape, Key way cutting on shaper/milling
METROLOGY: Any Six experiments
1. Measurement of lengths, heights, diameters by vernier calipers micrometers
etc.
2. Measurement of bores by internal micrometers and dial bore indicators.
3. Use of gear teeth, Vernier calipers and checking the chordal addendum and
chordal height of spur gear.
133
4. Machine tool alignment test on a lathe.
5. Machine tool alignment test on a milling machine.
6. Tool makers microscope and its application
7. Angle and taper measurements by bevel protractor, sine bars, etc.
8. Use of spirit level in finding the flatness of surface plate.
9. Thread measurement by two wire/ three wire method or tool makers’
microscope.
10. Surface roughness measurement by TalySurf.
11. Surface wear resistances test using electro spark coating device.
REFERENCES:
1. Workshop Technology by W.A.J. Chapman (Parts I, II, and III); Publisher: Viva
Books.
2. The Principles of Metallographic Laboratory Practice by George L. Kehl;
Publisher: McGraw Hill.
134
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech (Common to all Branches)
III Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(ENG1204) ADVANCED ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS
LABORATORY
Introduction
This course aims to offer students a practical approach to Technical Writing,
and provide a relevant, contemporary and authoritative introduction to the
dynamic field of technical communication that prepares them for Workplace
Communication. Each unit in the syllabus is devised so as to include a writing
component as well as an oral component.
Course Objectives:
 enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content to write
business letters, resume, SOP, Proposals and Technical Reports for
academics as well as for workplace.
 enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific
target audience.
 groom students to speak accurately and fluently and prepare them for real
world activities through behavioral skills.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Summarize and synthesize information and produce technical writing that is
required in academics as well as in the engineering profession.
 write covering letters, resume, SOP, Project Proposals and Technical
Reports.
 speak fluently and address a large group of audience and participate in
debates and discussions.
 Negotiate terms, manage complex situations through interpersonal skills,
persuade people and make quick decisions.
Introduction
This course aims to offer students a practical approach to Technical Writing, and
provide a relevant, contemporary and authoritative introduction to the dynamic field of
technical communication that prepares them for Workplace Communication. Each unit
in the syllabus is devised so as to include a writing component as well as an oral
component.
The objectives of this course are to
i) expose students to workplace writing
ii) initiate them into the Process of Technical Communication
iii) enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content
135
iv) enable students to produce documents reflecting different types of technical
communication such as Abstracts, Proposals and Technical Reports through
ample practice
v) enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific
target audience
vi) groom students in behavioral skills
Methodology
Written Communication Component
A Process- Genre methodology will be used in teaching the technical genres. This
method would enable students to understand the use of particular lexico-grammatical
patterns required of in the context of technical writing. They would learn to use
language to express the particular communicative intent that is required of in the
context of writing these genres.
Objectives of Writing Component
i) enable students to write clearly and succintly
ii) equip students with the ability to write technical genres
Oral Communication Component
The objective of including Oral Communication is to impart behavioral skills and
prepare students to speak to a large group or team, keeping in mind the audience,
context and purpose of communication. This Oral Communication component must
enable students to speak in an organized and mature way, without any inhibitions.
They will be groomed to relate their speech to their audience.
Objectives of Oral Communication Component
i) equip students with Behavioral skills
ii) prepare them for Oral presentations, and Group Discussions
iii) equip them with Interview skills
Syllabus Outline
Unit I
Writing Skills 1
1. Applications and Covering letters Resume Writing
2. Verbal Ability
3. Oral Communication :Talking About Yourself
Unit II
1. Writing an SOP
2. Summarizing and Synthesizing Information
3. Oral Communication: Making Presentations
Unit III
1. Writing Project Proposals
2. Oral Communication: Group Discussions
Unit IV
1. Writing Project Reports
2. Oral Communication: Interview Skills
136
Unit V.
Behavioral Skills and Personality Development
1. Building a positive attitude, building a positive personality, Motivation, goal
setting & values &
vision
2. Problem Solving and Decision Making; Negotiation Skills through Role Play
3. Team Building and Leadership Abilities
4. Social Etiquette
REQUIRED TEXT AND MATERIALS
1. Ashraf Rizvi, M (2005). Effective Technical Communication, Tata Mc Graw
Hill Publishing Company Limited, New Delhi.
2. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical
Communication: A Reader-Centered Approach ( 5th ed..) (pp. 457-473).
Boston: Heinle.
3. William S. Pfeifferhttp://www.amazon.com/Technical-Communication-
Practical-Approach-7th/dp/0135000505 - #, (2010) Technical Communication:
A Practical Approach (7th ed.). Prentice Hall
References
1. Burnett, Rebecca. Technical Communication. 5th Ed., Heinle, 2001
2. Bolter, Jay David. ( 2001). The late age of print. In Robert P. Yagelski's (Ed.)
Literacies and
Technologies: A Reader for Contemporary Writers (135-145). New York:
Longman.
3. Brandt, Deborah. (1998). Sponsors of literacy. College Composition and
Communication 49.2, 165-185.
4. Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson : Technical Writing Process and
Product. 3rd edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
5. Johnson-Sheehan, Richard. (2007). Starting Your Career. In Richard
Johnson-Sheehan's Technical Communication Today (2nd ed.) (pp. 388-
402). New York: Longman.
6. Markel, Mike. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies (8th
EDITION (2006-2007)
7. R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan, Business Correspondence and Report Writing,
Third Edition, TMH, 2002. (Indian Edition)
8. M. Raman and S. Sharma, Technical Communication : Principles and
Practices, OUP, 2004. (Indian Edition)
137
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
2 0 0
(NCC1102) Soft Skills and Personality Development
Course Objectives:
 Enable he students to used SSPD strategies in the workplace/business
environment.
 Equip the students with critical thinking skills, problem solving and decision
making
 Enable an understanding of IP law.
 Equip students with critical understanding of various issues.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Define and identify various terms related to SSPD , obtain, use and protect
the various SSPD in a business environment to form an appropriate SSPD
strategy for the relevant market
 Identify and explain the tasks and significance of an SSPD manager and
demonstrate competence in critical reasoning, problem solving and decision
making
 Demonstrate a deep understanding of the language of IP law and how to
make the best use of legal professionals involved in SSPD.
 Demonstrate a critical understanding of the issues involved in and choose
appropriate methods for extracting.
Introduction
In an era of Technological advances and competition in the job market, it is necessary
for students to possess soft skills and effective personal skills in addition to technical
skills. It is essential that students possess the ability to convey technical ideas in a
sound and simple manner. Planning and execution are the two important activities
required for them. It is the execution that requires the soft skills as it most of the times
deals with people. This course on “Soft Skills and Personality Development” is aimed
at enhancing students’ career prospects.
This course uncovers the principles of soft skills and personality skills, the ways to
integrate them in different phases of career that require personal and interpersonal
skills. It focuses on transforming the way of one’s thinking and reacting to the
environment. It equips the students with self analysis and gain self- control through
stress management and conflict management. It also helps students with study skills. It
helps students overcome their barriers and achieve excellence in performance and
succeed in their chosen field of work.
SYLLABUS
Unit I: Introduction to Personality Development
1. Definition and Basics of personality
138
 Determinants of Personality- biological, psychological and socio-
cultural factors
 Need for personality Development
2. Analyzing strengths and Weaknesses
3. Corporate theories on Personality development
4. Increasing vocabulary
5. Body Language
6. Preparation of Self Introduction
7. Motivation
 Self-analysis through SWOT
 Techniques and strategies for self-motivation
Unit II : Techniques in Personality Development Stage I
1. Communication Skills
2. Listening
3. Communication Barriers
4. Overcoming these Barriers
5. Importance of Self Esteem -- Building Self-esteem& Self Confidence
6. Working on attitudes – aggressive, assertive and submissive
7. Goal Setting
8. Leadership and Team Building Skills
9. Group Discussion
Unit III: Techniques in Personality Development Stage II
1. Interpersonal relationships
 Analysis of ego states, Transactions, Strokes and Life Positions
2. Stress Management
 Concept, Nature and Dimensions of Stress
 Causes, Impact and Managing Stress
 Relaxation Techniques
3. The Power of positive thinking
 Nurturing creativity, decision-making and problem solving
 Goals and techniques for positive thinking
 Enhancement of concentration through positive thinking
4. Projecting a Positive Social Image
 Grooming & Social Etiquette
 Voice Modulation
 Public Speaking
139
Unit IV: Techniques in Personality Development Stage III
 Conflict Management
 Introduction to Conflict Management
 Levels of Conflict
 Managing Conflict
 Time Management
 Concept
 Importance and Need
 Steps towards better Time Management
Unit V:Memory and Study Skills
 Definition and importance of memory
 Causes of forgetting
 How to forget (thought stopping), how to remember (techniques for
improving memory)
 The technique of passing exams-Management of examination fear.
PRACTICAL TRAINING
The course would include the following practical exercises.
 Ice- breaking. Brainstorming and simulation exercises. Thought
stopping. Memory and study skills training
 Role play and record work
REFERENCES
1. Mile, D.J (2004). Power of positive thinking. Delhi: Rohan Book
Company.
2. Pravesh Kumar (2005). All about self- Motivation. New Delhi:
Goodwill Publishing House.
3. Dudley, G.A. (2004). Double your learning power. Delhi: Konark
Press. Thomas Publishing Group Ltd.
4. Lorayne, H. (2004). How to develop a super power memory. Delhi:
Konark Press. Thomas Publishing Group Ltd.
5. Hurlock, E.B (2006). Personality Development, 28th Reprint. New
Delhi: Tata Mc Graw Hill.
6. Windshuttle, Keith and Elizabeth Elliot.1999. Writing, Researching
and Communicating: Communication Skills for the Information Age.
3rd Reprint. Tata McGraw-Hill. Australia
7. Dignen, Flinders and Sweeney. English 365. Cambridge University
Press
8. Goleman, Daniel. 1998. Working with Emotional Intelligence.
Bantam Books. New York
9. Jones, Leo and Richard Alexander. 2003. New International
Business English. Cambridge University Press
10. Lucas, Stephen.2001. Art of Public Speaking. Mc-Graw Hill.
140
11. Tamblyn, Doni and Sharyn Weiss. 2000. The Big Book OF
Humorous Training Games. 2004 Edition. Tata McGraw-Hill. New
Delhi
12. Personality Development by Rajiv K. Mishra. Rupa & Co.
13. Powell. In Company. Macmillan
14. Cotton, et al. Market Leader. Longman
15. Pease, Allan. 1998. Body Language: How to Read Others Thoughts
by their Gestures. Sudha Publications. New Delhi
16. Gardner, Howard. 1993. Multiple Intelligences: The Theory in
Practice: A Reader. Basic Books. New York
17. De Bono, Edward. 2000. Six Thinking Hats. 2nd Edition. Penguin
Books.
18. De Bono, Edward. 1993. Serious Creativity. Reprint. Harper
Business.
19. Mohan, Krishna and Meera Bannerji, 2001, Developing
Communication Skills. Macmillan.
20. V. Syamala, 2002. Effective English Communication for you.
Emerald Publishers, Chennai.
141
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(MED1121) FINITE ELEMENT METHOD
Course prerequisites: Maths, Strength of Materials, Mechancal Vibrations
Course Objectives:
 Understand different concepts of FEM.
 To study the boundary conditions, formulations and other functional approaches
of FEM.
 To perform simulations using FEM software.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Name and tabulate various approaches leads to FEM to solve a given
problem.
 Describe the given problem for finding solution using finite element
technique.
 Apply the concept of FEM to solve different field problems.
 Assess real life problems using dynamic analysis.
UNIT I
FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTS
Introduction; Historical background; Stresses and equilibrium; Boundary conditions;
Strain-displacement relations; Stress-strain relations; Temperature effects.
ONE-DIMENSIONAL PROBLEMS
Introduction; Finite element modeling; Co-ordinates and shape functions; The potential
energy approach; Rayleigh-Ritz method; Galerkin’s method, The Galerkin approach;
Assembly of the global stiffness matrix (K) and load vector; Properties of K; The finite
element equations; Treatment of boundary conditions; Quadratic shape functions;
Temperature effects.
UNIT II
TRUSSES
Introduction; Plane trusses; Three-dimensional trusses; Assembly of global stiffness
matrix for the banded and skyline solutions.
TWO-DIMENSIONAL PROBLEMS USING CONSTANT STRAIN TRIANGLES
Introduction; Finite element modeling; Constant strain triangle (CST); Problem
modeling and boundary conditions.
UNIT III
TWO-DIMENSIONAL ISOPARAMETRIC ELEMENTS AND NUMERICAL
INTEGRATION
Introduction; The four-node quadrilateral; Numerical integration; Higher-order-
elements.
142
DYNAMIC ANALYSIS USING FINITE ELEMENT METHOD
Introduction; Vibration problems; Equations of motion based on weak form;
Longitudinal vibrations of bars; consistent mass matrices; element equations; solution
of Eigen value problems.
UNIT IV
AXISYMMETRIC SOLIDS SUBJECTED TO AXISYMMETRIC LOADING
Introduction; Axisymmetric formulation; Finite element modeling - triangular element;
Problem modeling and boundary conditions.
STEADY STATE HEAT TRANSFER ANALYSIS:
One dimensional analysis of Slab, fin and two dimensional analysis of thin plate.
UNIT V
BEAMS
Introduction; Finite element formulation; Hermite shape function, Load vector;
Boundary considerations; Shear force and bending moment; Beams on elastic
supports;
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Introduction to Finite Elements in Engineering, 2E, by Tirupathi R.
Chandrupatla, Ashok D. Belegundu; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
REFERENCES:
1. Finite Element Method by Zienkiewicz.
2. An Introduction to Finite Element Methods by J. N. Reddy.
3. Finite Element Method by S. S. Rao.
143
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(MED1128) CAD/CAM
Course prerequisites: Engineering Graphics, Engineering Design, Production
technology
Course Objectives:
 Understand the mathematics behind the transformations and projections in
design of products on CAD devices.
 Know the various types of modeling and drafting.
 Learn the fundamentals of part programming required for manufacturing a
product.
 Appreciate the integration of design and manufacturing functions through
CAD and CAM.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Identify the database management terminology, interpret and use CAD/CAM
software efficiently.
 Realize and solve the parametric representation of curves and surfaces.
 Validate the solid models through various representation schemes.
 Relate to the various data exchange formats and demonstrate part
programming knowledge.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Computers in Industrial Manufacturing, Product cycle, CAD and CAM, Overview of
CAD / CAM Hardware, Display devices, Hard copy devices.
COMPUTER GRAPHICS
Raster scan graphics, Coordinate systems, Database structure for graphics modeling,
Transformation of geometry, 3D Transformations, Mathematics of projections, Clipping,
Hidden surface removal.
UNIT II
GEOMETRIC MODELING
Geometric models, Geometric construction methods, Curve representation, Surface
representation methods, Modeling facilities desired.
DRAFTING AND MODELING SYSTEMS
Basic geometric commands, Layers, Display control commands, Editing,
Dimensioning, Solid modeling.
144
UNIT III
COMPUTER NUMERICAL CONTROL
Introduction to NC machines and CNC machines, Structure of CNC machine tools,
Features of Machining center and Turning center, Concept of ATC & APC, Feedback
control
CNC PART PROGRAMMING
Fundamentals, Manual part programming methods, Computer Aided Part
Programming, Introduction to G & M codes.
GROUP TECHNOLOGY
Philosophy of Group Technology, Part families, Methods of Parts Classification and
Coding, Advantages and Limitations.
UNIT IV
COMPUTER AIDED PROCESS PLANNING
Introduction, Retrieval type and Generative type, Benefits
COMPUTER AIDED QUALITY CONTROL
Introduction, Terminology in quality control, The computer in QC, Contact inspection
methods, Noncontact inspection methods-optical and nonoptical, Computer aided
testing, Integration of CAQC with CAD/CAM.
UNIT V
COMPUTER INTEGRATED MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS
Introduction, Types of Manufacturing systems, Machine tools and related equipment,
Material handling systems, Computer Control Systems, Human labor in the
manufacturing systems, CIMS benefits.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. CAD / CAM by A. Zimmers and P. Groover; Publisher: Prentice Hall
International/Pearson Education
2. CAD/CAM Principles and Applications by P N Rao; Publisher: Tata McGraw
Hill
3. CAD / CAM Theory and Practice by Ibrahim Zeid; Publisher: Tata McGraw
Hill
REFERENCES:
1. Automation, Production Systems and Computer integrated Manufacturing by
Groover; Publisher: Pearson Education
2. CAD / CAM / CIM by Radhakrishnan and Subramanian; Publisher: Pearson
Education
3. Principles of Computer Aided Design and Manufacturing by Farid Amirouche;
Publisher: Pearson Education
4. CAD/CAM: Concepts and Applications by Alavala; Publisher: Prentice Hall
International
5. Computer Numerical Control Concepts and programming by Warren S
Seames; Publisher: Thomson
145
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(CED1147) DISASTER MANAGEMENT
Course prerequisites:
Course Objectives:
 Differentiate between a hazard and disaster
 Explain various disasters and their impacts
 Discuss Different approaches of disaster risk reduction
 Understand Disaster risks in India
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Acquire the knowledge disaster Management
 Understand the vulnerability of ecosystem and infrastructure due to a disaster
 Acquire the knowledge of Disaster Management Phases
 Understand the hazard and vulnerability profile of India
UNIT-I
INTRODUCTION TO DISASTER
Concepts and definitions (Disaster, Hazard, Vulnerability, Resilience, Risks)
UNIT-II
DISASTERS
Classifications, Causes, Impacts (including social, economic, political, environment,
health, psychosocial, etc.)
Differential impacts-in terms of caste, class, gender, age, location, disability Global
trends in disasters. Urban disaster, pandemics, complex emergencies, Climate change
UNIT-III
APPROACHES TO DISASTER RISK REDUCTION
Disaster cycle-its analysis, phase, Culture of safety, prevention, mitigation and
preparedness, community based DRR, Structural measures, roles and responsibilities
of community. Panchayati Raj Institutions/Urban Local Bodies (PRIs/ULBs), states,
center and other stake-holders.
UNIT-IV
INTER-RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN DISASTER AND DEVELOPMENT
Factors affecting Vulnerabilities, differential impacts, impact of development projects
such as dams, embankments, change in land-use etc. Climate change Adaption.
Relevance of indigenous knowledge, appropriate technology and local resources.
146
UNIT-V
DISASTER RISK MANAGEMENT IN INDIA
Hazard and vulnerability profile of India Components of Disaster relief: Water, food,
sanitation, shelter, health, waste management
Institutional arrangements (Mitigation, Response and Preparedness, DM Act Policy,
Other related polices, plan, programmes and legislation)
PROJECT WORK :( FIELD WORK, CASE STUDIES)
The project/fieldwork is meant for students to understand vulnerabilities and to work on
reducing disaster risks and to build a culture of safety. Projects must be conceived
creatively based on the geographic location and hazard.
Suggested Reading list:
1. Alexander David, Introduction in ‘Confronting Catastrophe’, oxford University
press, 2000
2. Andharia J. Vulnerability in disaster Discourse, JTCDM, Tata Institute of Social
Sciences working paper no.8, 2008
3. Blaikie, P, Cannon T, Davis I, Wisner B 1997. At Risk Natural Hazards,
Peoples’ Vulnerability and Disaster, Rutledge.
4. Coppola P Damon, 2007. Introduction to International Disaster Management.
5. Carter, Nick 1991.Disaster Management: A Disaster Manager’s Handbook.
Asian Development Bank, Manila Philippines.
6. Cuny,F.1983. Development and Disasters, Oxford University Press
7. Govt.of India; Disaster Management Act 2005,Government of India, New Delhi.
147
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(CSE1121) CYBER SECURITY
Course Objectives:
 Identify the key components of cyber security in network
 Describe risk management processes and practices
 Define types of service delivery process and storage management process
 Access additional external resources to supplement knowledge of cyber
forensics and laws
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Understand the use of sensors.
 Analyses and suggest the type of sensors required for any operation.
 Create simple measuring devices and automation solution to day to day
problem.
UNIT I.
INTRODUCTION: Introduction and Overview of Cyber Crime, Nature and Scope of
Cyber Crime, Types of Cyber Crime: Social Engineering, Categories of Cyber Crime,
Property Cyber Crime. CYBER CRIME ISSUES: Unauthorized Access to Computers,
Computer Intrusions, White collar Crimes, Viruses and Malicious Code, Internet
Hacking and Cracking, Virus Attacks, Pornography, Software Piracy, Intellectual
Property, Mail Bombs, Exploitation ,Stalking and Obscenity in Internet, Digital laws and
legislation, Law Enforcement Roles and Responses. Security Policy Design, Designing
Security Procedures, Risk Assessment Techniques, Security standards, Biba Model,
Chinese wall, Bell La Pedula Model.
UNIT II:
SERVICE DELIVERY PROCESS- Service Delivery Process, Service Level
Management, Financial Management, Service Management, Capacity Management,
Availability Management.
SERVICE SUPPORT PROCESS- Service Support Process, Configuration
Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management,
Release Management.
UNIT III:
STORAGE MANAGEMENT- Backup & Storage, Archive & Retrieve, Disaster
Recovery, Space Management, Database & Application Protection, Bare Machine
Recovery, Data Retention
SECURITY MANAGEMENT- Security, Computer and internet Security, Physical
Security,Identity Management, Access Management. Intrusion Detection, Security
Information Management.
148
UNIT IV:
Cyber Forensics- Introduction to Digital Forensics, Forensic Software and Hardware,
Analysis and Advanced Tools, Forensic Technology and Practices, Forensic Ballistics
and Photography, Face, Iris and Fingerprint Recognition, Audio Video Analysis,
Windows System Forensics, Linux System Forensics, Network Forensics Evaluation of
crime scene and evidence collection ,Usage of tools for disk imaging and recovery
processes.
UNIT V
Introduction to Information Security Standards , Laws and Acts: Laws and Ethics,
Digital Evidence Controls, Evidence Handling Procedures, Basics of Indian Evidence
ACT IPC and CrPC , Electronic Communication Privacy ACT, Legal Policies,ISO
27001,PCI DSS,IT Act, Copy Right Act.
Textbooks:
1. Nelson Phillips and Enfinger Steuart, “Computer Forensics and Investigations”,
Cengage Learning, New Delhi, 2009.
2. "Management of Information Security", M. E. Whitman, H. J. Mattord, Nelson
Education / CENGAGE Learning, 2011, 3rd Edition.
3. "Guide to Computer Forensics and Investigations", B. Nelson, A. Phillips, F.
Enfinger, C. Steuart, Nelson Education / CENGAGE Learning, 2010, 4th
Edition.
4. Goel Ritendra, Computer Application in Management, New Age International
Publishers, New Delhi.
5. Chowdhury G.G., Text Retrieval Systems in information Management, New
Age International Publishers, New Delhi.
1
2
149
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(ITD1105) OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING THROUGH JAVA
Course Objectives:
Understand fundamental concepts and constructs of Java
 Implement Different object-oriented Concepts in Java.
 Develop the concepts of Multi-Threading and IO-Streams
 Construct GUI models.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Implement basic command s in Linux.
 Able to write, compile and debug programs in c language.
 Implement appropriate decision making statements and derived data types to
solve a given problem.
 Realize different file operations in c programming.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO JAVA
Introduction: Creation of Java, Java buzzwords, OOP Principles, Encapsulation,
Inheritance and Polymorphism, Classes and Objects: Creating and usage objects,
introducing methods, constructors, usage of static with data and methods, usage of
final with data, access control, this key word, garbage collection, overloading methods
and constructors, parameter passing, recursion, nested classes and inner classes,
String Handling
UNIT-II
INHERITANCE, PACKAGES AND INTERFACES
Basic concepts, member access rules, usage of super key word, forms of inheritance,
method overriding, abstract classes, dynamic method dispatch, using final with
inheritance, the Object class.
Defining, Creating and Accessing a Package, Understanding CLASSPATH, importing
packages, differences between classes and interfaces, defining an interface,
implementing interface, applying interfaces, variables in interface and extending
interfaces.
UNIT-III
EXCEPTION HANDLING AND MULTITHREADING
Concepts of Exception handling, types of exceptions, usage of try, catch, throw, throws
and finally keywords, Built-in exceptions, creating own exception sub classes,
Concepts of Multithreading, differences between process and thread, thread life cycle,
creating multiple threads using Thread class, Runnable interface, Synchronization,
150
thread priorities, inter thread communication, daemon threads, deadlocks, thread
groups.
UNIT-IV
EVENT HANDLING, AWT CONTROLS
Events, Event sources, Event classes, Event Listeners, Delegation event model,
handling mouse and keyboard events, Adapter classes.
AWT : Concepts of components, container, panel, window, frame, canvas, Font class,
Color class and Graphics, AWT Controls.
Applets - Concepts of Applets, differences between applets and applications, life cycle
of an applet, types of applets, creating applets, passing parameters to applets.
UNIT-V
NETWORKING, JAVA LIBRARY, JDBC
Networking: Inet address, TCP/IP sockets, Datagrams, URL, URL connection, String
handling, java. util, java.io and java.net packages.
JDBC: Different type of Drivers, Connection establishment, Retrieving and
manipulation data from client and storing in data base.
Java Library: explore io, util, net, lang, sql, awt packages.
Introduction to Java APIs: what is API, discuss APIs in Java SS, Java EE, Java ME
TEXT BOOKS:
1. The Complete Reference Java J2SE 5th Edition, Herbert Schildt, TMH
Publishing Company Ltd, NewDelhi.
2. Big Java 2nd Edition, Cay Horstmann, John Wiley and Sons.
REFERENCES:
1. Java How to Program, Sixth Edition, H.M.Dietel and P.J.Dietel, Pearson
Education/PHI
2. Core Java 2, Vol. 1, Fundamentals, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell,
Seventh Edition, Pearson Education.
3. Core Java 2, Vol. 2, Advanced Features, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell,
Seventh Edition, Pearson Education.
4. Beginning in Java 2, Iver Horton, Wrox Publications.
5. Java, Somasundaram, Jaico.
6. Java Networking and AWT API Super Bible, Natraj Nagaratnam, Brian
Masco, Arvind Srinivasan, White Group Press
151
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(ITD1116) COMPUTER FORENSICS
Course Objectives:
 Gain a working knowledge of Computer Forensics.
 Explain the responsibilities and liabilities of a computer forensic investigator
 Explain where digital evidence resides on computer storage devices
 Learn how to work with Forensic tools.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Apply appropriate skills and knowledge in solving computer forensics problems.
 Display their competence in the various forensic computing field.
 Apply their theoretical and practical knowledge in forensic computing, into the future
and emerging technology
 Perform competitively as a technical support in any organization
UNIT I
COMPUTER FORENSICS FUNDAMENTALS
What is Computer Forensics, Use of Computer Forensics in Law Enforcement,
Computer Forensics in Law Enforcement, Computer Forensics Assistance to Human
Resources/Employment Proceedings, Computer Forensics Services, Benefits of
professional Forensics Methodology, Steps taken by computer Forensics Specialists.
TYPES OF COMPUTER FORENSICS TECHNOLOGY
Types of Military Computer Forensics Technology, Types of Law Enforcement -
Computer Forensic Technology - Types of Business Computer Forensics Technology.
COMPUTER FORENSICS EVIDENCE AND CAPTURE
Data Recovery Defined- Data Back-up and Recovery- The Role of Back-up in Data
Recovery- The Data Recovery Solution.
UNIT II
EVIDENCE COLLECTION AND DATA SEIZURE
Why Collection Evidence? Collection Options – Obstacles – Types of Evidence – The
Rules of Evidence- Volatile Evidence- General Procedure – Collection and Archiving –
Methods of Collection – Artifacts – Collection Steps – Controlling Contamination: The
chain of Custody.
DUPLICATION AND PRESERVATION OF DIGITAL EVIDENCE
Preserving the Digital Crime Scene – Computer Evidence Processing Steps – Legal
Aspects of Collecting Preserving Computer Forensics Evidence. Computer Image
Verification and Authentication: Special Needs of Evidential Authentication – Practical
Consideration – Practical Implementation.
152
UNIT III
COMPUTER FORENSICS ANALYSIS AND VALIDATION
Determining what data to collect and analyze, validating forensic data, addressing data
– hiding techniques, performing remote acquisitions.
NETWORK FORENSICS
Network Forensics overview, performing live acquisitions, developing standard
procedures for network forensics, using network tools, examining the honeynet project.
UNIT IV
PROCESSING CRIME AND INCIDENT SCENES
Identifying digital evidence, collecting evidence in private-sector incident scenes,
processing law enforcement crime scenes, preparing for a search, securing a computer
incident or crime scene, seizing digital evidence at the scene, storing digital evidence,
obtaining a digital hash, reviewing a case.
CURRENT COMPUTER FORENSIC TOOLS
Evaluating computer forensic tool needs, computer forensics software tools, computer
forensics hardware tools, validating and testing forensics software.
UNIT V
E-MAIL INVESTIGATIONS
Exploring the role of E-mail in investigation, exploring the role of the client and server in
E-mail, investigating e-mail crimes and violations, understanding e-mail servers, using
specialized e-mail forensic tools.
CELL PHONE AND MOBILE DEVICE FORENSICS
Understanding mobile device forensics, understanding acquisition procedures for cell
phones and mobile devices.
WORKING WITH WINDOWS AND DOS SYSTEMS
Understanding file systems, exploring Microsoft File Structures, Examining NTFS
Disks, Understanding whole disk encryption, windows registry, Microsoft startup tasks,
MS-DOS Startup tasks, virtual machines.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Computer forensics, computer crime investigation by John R.Vacca, Firewall
Media, New Delhi.
2. Computer forensics and investigations by Nelson, Phillips Enfinger Steuart,
CENGAGE Learning.
REFERENCES:
1. Real Digital Forensics by Keith J.Jones, Rechard Bejtlich, Curtis W.Rose,
Addison-Wesley Pearson Education.
2. Forensic compiling, A Tractitioneris Guide by Tony Sammes and Brain
Jenkinson, Springer International Edition.
3. Computer Evidence Collection & Presentation by Christopher L.T.Brown,
Firewall Media.
4. Homeland Security, Techniques & Technologies by Jesus Mena, Firewall
Media
153
5. Software forensics Collecting Evidence from the scene of a digital crime by
Robert M.Slade, TMH 2005.
6. Windows forensics by Chad Steel, Wiley India Edition.
154
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(ITD1126) GREEN IT
Course Objectives:
 Learn concepts of Trends and which has led to go green.
 Identify and implement environmentally sound techniques to preserve power.
 To analyse different techniques and technologies that will enhance Green IT
initiatives And to create Data centre Design & Redesign
 To understand the purpose and application of virtualization technology.
 To Know about Data Replication methods and Disk Technology
Advancements.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 To Know the global green mantra is “Reduce, Reuse, Recycle.”.
 To Illustrate the importance of managing the E-waste.
 To know how to Minimizing Power Issues, Cooling, Changing the way we
work.
 Understand concepts of Greening Process to redesign green Datacentre.
 To Recognize the need for virtual server implementation & desktop
virtualization. And understands about Data Replication and Disk Technology
Advancements
UNIT I
TRENDS AND REASONS TO GO GREEN
Overview and Issues, Problems, Cost savings, Current Initiatives and standards,
Global Initiatives
UNIT II
CONSUMPTION ISSUES
Minimizing Power Issues, Cooling, Changing the way we work, Going Paper less,
Recycling, Hardware Considerations,
UNIT III
THE GREENING PROCESS
Data Center Design and Redesign, Greening your Information Systems, Staying Green
UNIT IV
VIRTUALIZATION
Virtual Server Implementation Plan, Desktop Virtualization, Benefits, Desktop access,
Virtual Printing,
155
UNIT V
DATA REPLICATION AND DISK TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENTS
Data Replication Methods, Disk Technology Advancements, The Green data Center,
Cloud Computing, Remote Monitoring
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Green IT-Reduce your information system’s Environmental Impact while
adding to the bottom line Toby J Velte, Anthony T Velte, Robert Elsenpeter –
McGraw Hill Publications, 2008
2. Foundation Of Green It, Consolidation, Virtualization, Efficiency, and Roi in
The Data Center, Marty Poniatowski- Prentice Hall Publications
REFERENCES:
1. Green Computing and Green IT Best Practices on Regulations and Industry
Initiatives, Virtualization, Power Management, Materials Recycling and
Telecommuting By Jason Harris.
2. Green IT for Sustainable Business Practice- Mark G. O’ Neil, BCS The
chartered institute for IT
3. The Greening of IT: How Companies Can Make a Difference for the
Environment, John P. Lamb, Kindle Edition, IBM Press 2009
156
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 1 3
(MED1129) ROBOTICS
Course prerequisites: Kinematics of Machines, Mathematics
Course Objectives:
 Understand the knowledge on manipulators
 Understand about feedback components and sensors
 Impart the knowledge on programming languages
 Understand about applications of robots
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Evaluate the positions, angles of the manipulators given the required motion
analysis, kinematics, dynamics and trajectory planning concepts.
 Analyze the different types of feedback components and sensors used in
robots.
 Create and analyze the program for a robot using the programming
languages.
 Analyze the applications of robots in manufacturing by studying different work
cells of the robots.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Automation & Robotics, An overview of Robotics, Classification by Coordinate Systems
and control systems.
Components of the Industrial Robotics: Degrees of freedom, End effectors –
Mechanical gripper, Magnetic, Vacuum cup and other types of grippers, General
consideration on gripper selection and design.
Motion Analysis: Basic rotation matrices, Composite rotation matrices, Euler angles,
Equivalent angle and axis, Homogeneous transformation, Problems.
UNIT II
KINEMATICS AND DYNAMICS
Manipulator Kinematics: D-H notations, Joint coordinates and world coordinates,
Forward and Inverse kinematics, Problems.
Differential Kinematics: Differential kinematics of planar and spherical manipulators,
Jacobians, Problems.
Robot Dynamics: Lagrange-Euler formulations, Newton-Euler formulations, Problems
on planar two link manipulators.
157
UNIT III
TRAJECTORY PLANNING
Joint space scheme, Cubic polynomial fit, Avoidance of obstacles, Types of motions:
Skew motion, Joint interpolated motion, Straight line motion, Problems.
UNIT IV
ROBOT ACTUATORS AND FEEDBACK COMPONENTS
Actuators – Pneumatic, Hydraulic and Electric actuators, DC Servo motors, Stepper
motors.
Feedback components – Position sensors, Potentiometers, Resolvers and Encoders,
Velocity sensors, Tactile sensors.
UNIT V
ROBOT APPLICATION IN MANUFACTURING
Material Handling and transfer, Welding, Assembly, Inspection, Future applications
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Industrial Robotics by M. P. Groover; Publisher: Pearson Education
2. Introduction to Robotic Mechanics and Control, by J. J. Craig, Publisher:
Pearson Education
REFERENCES:
1. Robot Dynamics and Control by M.W.Sponge and M.Vidyasagar; Publisher:
John Wiley.
2. Robotics by K.S.Fu; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
3. Robotic Engineering by Richard Klafter, Publisher: Prentice Hall
4. Robot Analysis and Intelligence by Asada & Slotine, Publisher: Wiley
Interscience
5. Robotics & Control by Mittal R. K. & Nagrath I. J., Publisher: Tata McGraw
Hill
158
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 1 3
(MED1130) COMPOSITE MATERIALS
Course prerequisites: Maths, Physics, Chemistry and Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives:
 Understand composite materials and their properties, relationship between
them and manufacturing of different types.
 Understand the principles of material science applied to composite materials.
 Study the equations to analyze problems by making good assumptions and
learn systematic engineering method to solve practical composite mechanics
problems.
 Impart the knowledge on strength of composites
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Apply fundamental knowledge of mathematics to modeling and analysis of
composite materials.
 Analyze the manufacturing methods of various composite materials.
 Analyze the failure of composites.
 Synthesize and use right composite materials for the right component.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Introduction to Composite Materials: Introduction, definition of composite materials,
Classification of composites: Polymer Matrix Composites, Metal Matrix Composites,
Ceramic Matrix Composites, Carbon-Carbon Composites, Fiber reinforced Composites
and Nature made composites, and applications
UNIT II
REINFORCEMENTS
Introduction, Classification of reinforcements, Flexibility, Fibers: Glass-Fabrication,
structure, properties and applications, Boron-Fabrication, structure and morphology,
properties and its applications, Carbon preparation, processing, properties and
applications, Preparation, properties and applications of: Organic fibers–Polyethylene,
Aramid, Ceramic, Non oxide-Silicon carbide, Whiskers
UNIT III
MATRIX MATERIALS
Introduction, Polymers matrix materials-Thermoplastics and Thermosets, copolymers,
molecular weight, degree of crystallinity, stress strain behavior Common thermoset
matrix materials- epoxy, polyster, polyimides common thermoplastic matrix materials-
polyphenylene sulfide, polyaryl sulfone, Metal matrix materials- structure, properties of
159
metals, common metals applied as matrix metals, Ceramix matrix materials-types,
properties.
Interfaces-wettability, effect of surface roughness, crystallographic nature of interface,
Types of bonding at the interface-mechanical, physical, Chemical bonding.
Tests for measuring interfacial strength-Flexural tests, three point bending, four point
bending, short beam shear test, iosipescu shear test, Single fiber pullout test, curved
neck specimen test, instrumented indentation test, fragmentation test., Laser spallation
technique.
UNIT IV
MANUFACTURING METHODS
Polymer matrix composites(PMC)-Processing of thermoset matrix composites, Handy
Lay –Up and Spray Techniques, Filament winding, pultrusion, resin transfer molding,
Tape-Laying and fiber placement systems, Autoclave –based methods, Thermoplastic
matrix composites-Film stacking, Diaphraming, Thermoplastic Tape laying, Injection
Moulding, sheet moulding compound (SMC)
Types of Metal Matrix composites, processing-liquid state process, solid state process,
In situ process, properties and applications.
Ceramic matrix composites(CMC)-processing OF CMC, Cold pressing and sintering,
Hot pressing, Reaction bonding process, Liquid infiltration, Lanxide process, In Situ
chemical Reactions Techniques-chemical vapour deposition and chemical vapour
impregnation, sol-gel and polymer pyrolysis, Properties and applications of CMC,
Carbon Fiber composites-processing, properties and its applications.
UNIT V
MICROMECHANICS OF COMPOSITES
Introduction, Density, Volume, and Mass fractions, void contents, Mechanical
Properties: Prediction of elastic constants,
Halpin-Tsai Equations, Thermal properties: Thermal expansion coefficients of
composites, thermal conductivity of composites, Hygral and Thermal stress
MACROMECHANICS OF COMPOSITES
Introduction, elastic constants of an isotropic material, elastic constants of a Lamina,
Relationships between engineering constants and reduced stiffness and compliances,
Fracture modes in composites: single and multiple fracture, debonding, fiber pullout,
delamination, fracture, fatigue and creep properties of composites, Design with
composites: Advantages of composites in structural design, Fundamental
characteristics of composites.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Composite Materials Science and Engineering by Krishan K. Chawla;
Publisher: Springer
2. Engineering Mechanics of Composite Materials by Isaac and M. Daniel;
Publisher: Oxford University Press, 1994
REFERENCES:
1. Mechanics of Composites Material by R. M. Jones, Publisher: McGraw Hill
160
2. Mechanics of Composite materials and Structures by Madhuji Mukhopadyaya
Publisher: University Press
3. Analysis and performance of Fiber Composites by B. D. Agarwal, L. J.
Broutman, and K. Chandrasekhara; Publisher: John Wiley.
161
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 1 3
(MED1143) THEORY OF METAL CUTTING
Course prerequisites: Production Technology, Machine Tools
Course Objectives:
 Understand the cutting tools geometry and their areas of application based on
principle of cutting.
 Understand cutting forces and their measurement.
 Understand tool wear, replacement strategy and optimization of cutting tool
usage.
 To understand the economics of metal cutting
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Analyze a cutting tool, its geometry and arrive at the cutting process.
 Create a cutting tool material and appropriate material to be cut.
 Apply the methods of measuring the cutting forces, temperature and their
significance.
 Apply a cutting tool with optimal tool life to maximize material removal rate.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Mechanics of Metal Cutting: Mechanism of chip formation, Orthogonal and Oblique
cutting, Determination of shear plane angle, forces on the chips, forces in orthogonal
cutting, merchant circle diagram and analysis, co-efficient of friction, power and energy
relationship, velocity relationship, shear-strain, factors affecting forces and power,
types of chips, built-up edge, problems.
UNIT II
MEASUREMENT OF CUTTING FORCES
Reasons for measuring cutting forces, Classification of cutting force dynamometers –
mechanical, piezoelectric, and strain gage type dynamometers, Dynamometers for
lathe, drilling, and milling, Calibration of dynamometers.
TOOL WEAR, TOOL LIFE
Mechanisms of tool wear, Sudden, gradual wear, crater wear, flank wear, tool failure
criteria, tool life equations, effect of process parameters on tool life.
UNIT III
GEOMETRY OF CUTTING TOOLS
Single point and multi point cutting tools, tools in hand nomenclature, tool point
reference systems, tool angle specifications – ISO and ASA systems, conversion from
one system to another. Effect of cutting parameters on tool geometry.
162
TOOL MATERIALS AND THEIR PROPERTIES
Characteristics of tools materials, types of tool materials – carbon tool steels, high
speed steels, cast alloys, cemented carbides, ceramics, diamonds, sialon, CBN,
UCON, recommended cutting speeds for the above tools.
UNIT IV
THERMAL ASPECTS IN METAL CUTTING
Heat sources in metal cutting, temperature in chip formation, temperature distribution,
experimental determination of tool temperatures.
CUTTING FLUIDS
Basic actions of cutting fluids, properties of cutting fluids, selection of cutting fluids,
application of cutting fluids, recommended cutting fluids.
UNIT V
ECONOMICS OF MACHINING
Introduction, elements of total production cost, optimum cutting speed and tool life for
minimum cost, optimum cutting speed and tool life for maximum production, problems.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Principles of Metal Cutting by G. C. Sen and A. Bhattacharya; Publisher: New
Central Book Agency.
2. Metal Cutting Principles by M C Shaw; Publisher: Oxford and IBH
Publications
REFERENCES:
1. Fundamentals of Machining by Boothroyd; Publisher: Edward Amold
2. Metal Cutting Theory and Cutting Tool Design by V. Arshinov & G. Alekseev;
Publisher: Mir Publishers, Moscow
3. Fundamentals of Metal Cutting and Machine tools by B. L. Juneja, G. S.
Sekhom & Nitin Seth; Publisher: New Age International
4. Principles of Metal Cutting by G. Kuppuswamy; Publisher: Universities
Press
163
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 1 3
(MED1136) TRIBOLOGY
Course prerequisites: Engineering Materials
Course Objectives:
 Impart the knowledge on anti-friction and anti-wear components and the
lubricants
 Understand about operation of anti-friction or anti-wear components
 Understand about tribological design
 Impart the knowledge on preparing technical project reports and technical
presentations
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Gain Knowledge on common anti friction and anti wear components and the
lubricants.
 Describe the detailed operation of selected anti friction or anti wear
components.
 Design a Tribological system for optimal performance.
 Develop technical project reports and technical presentations.
UNIT – I
STUDY OF VARIOUS PARAMETERS
Viscosity of fluid flow, Absolute and Kinematic Viscosity, Variation of viscosity with
temperature, Viscosity Index and determination of viscosity, Viscometry.
UNIT – II
HYDROSTATIC LUBRICATION
Hydrostatic Step bearing, application to pivoted pad thrust bearing and other
applications, Hydrostatic lubrication systems, Multirecess journal bearing, Hydrostatic
lifts and its application to journal bearing.
UNIT – III
HYDRODYNAMIC THEORY OF LUBRICATION
One dimensional Journal bearing , Infinitely long and short journal bearings, Petroffs
equation, Reynolds equation, pressure distribution and load carrying capacity,
sommerfeld number, bearing modulus, and oil film thickness
UNIT – IV
BEARING MATERIALS
General requirements of bearing materials, types of bearing materials
164
UNIT – V
FRICTION, WEAR AND LUBRICATION
Laws of friction, Friction Theories and Mechanisms, Types, Wear and influence of
operating conditions, manufacturing methods, improved wear resistance, wear testing
methods, wear of metals, ceramics and polymers, Lubrication and Lubricants
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Fundamentals of Tribology by S. K. Basu, S. N. Sengupta & B. B. Ahuja;
Publisher: Prentice Hall International
2. Introduction to Tribology of Bearings by B. C. Majundar; Publisher: Wheeler
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Tribology by Prasanta Sahoo; Publisher: Prentice Hall
International
2. Friction, Wear and Lubrication, Vol. I, II, III by Kargelski; Publisher: MIR
Publishers, 1983
3. Tribology for Engineers: A Practical Guide by Paulo Davim; Publisher:
Woodhead Publishing 2011.
165
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 1 3
(MED1135) SURFACE MODIFICATION TECHNIQUES
Course prerequisites: Material science, Chemistry, Physics, Mechanical Properties of
materials, Physical Metallurgy.
Course Objectives:
 Understand the properties of surfaces and know different methods of
protection.
 Explain Surface treatment processes for engineering applications.
 To teach advanced tools and techniques used in the characterization of
coatings.
 To know current methods for the modification of surfaces.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Analyze a cutting tool, its geometry and arrive at the cutting process.
 Create a cutting tool material and appropriate material to be cut.
 Apply the methods of measuring the cutting forces, temperature and their
significance
 Apply a cutting tool with optimal tool life to maximize material removal rate.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO SURFACE ENGINEERING
Differences between surface and bulk, Properties of surfaces-wear, corrosion, optical,
roughness, electrical and thermal properties, wetability. Surface protection (physical),
surface modification (chemical) techniques: classification, principles, methods, and
technology.
UNIT II
CONCEPTS OF COATING
Coatings- Concepts of coatings , Electroplating and electroless plating -Metallic and
non metallic coatings- chemical vapour deposition, physical vapour deposition,
Galvanizing – Thermal Spray, types of thermal spray and their advantages and
disadvantages - conventional verses nanocoatings.
UNIT III
PLASMA COATING TECHNOLOGY
Process parameters, thermal and kinetic history of inflight particle, micro structural
features of plasma sprayed coatings, single splat studies, process-structure property
relationship challenges in preparation, plasma spraying of nanopowders - its
microstructure – properties–Liquid precurser plasma spray- applications.
166
UNIT IV
CHARACTERIZATION OF COATINGS
Coatings –thickness-porosity-hardness, fracture toughness-elastic modulus –adhesion
bending strength-fracture strength- tensile strength- wear and corrosion measurement
phase analysis
UNIT V
HARD AND SOFT COATINGS
Laser cladding- laser alloying, Electron beam hardening-ion beam implantation- sol –
gel coatings –electrophoretic deposition –DLC and diamond coatings, antifriction and
antiscratch coatings.
SPUTTERING TECHNIQUES
Methods, applications, plasma treatments, nitriding–carbonising – boriding, titanizing
methods, applications.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Surface Engineering of Metals, Principles, equipments and Technologies-
Tadeusz Burakowski, Padeusg and Weirzxhon, CRC press, 1998
2. Surface coatings for protection against wear edited by BG Miller, Woodhead
publishing - 2006
REFERENCES:
1. Surface coatings ASM handbook
2. Characterization Techniques ASM Handbook
3. P. Fauchais, A. Vardelle, and B. Dussoubs, "Quo Vadis Thermal Spraying?
"Journal of Thermal Spray Technology, Volume 10(1) March2001
4. H. Herman and S. Sampath "Thermal Spray Coatings" Published in 1996 by
Chapman and Hall, London. Edited by Kurt H Sien.
167
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 1 3
(MED1150) TOOL DESIGN
Course prerequisites: Design Principles, Machine Tools, Process Engineering
Course Objectives:
 Understand the properties of tool materials such as ferrous, non ferrous, non
metallic materials and their heat treatment .
 To design single and multi point cutting tools for various applications
 Must gain the knowledge of designing Jigs and Fixtures.
 Understand design of sheet metal tools for blanking, piercing, bending,
forming and drawing etc.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Evaluate single and multi point cutting tools for various methods.
 Analyze design for jigs and fixtures for several components depending on
quantity requirement.
 Analyze the sheet metal tools for blanking, piercing, bending, forming and
drawing.
 Apply an appropriate heat treatment for the tools.
UNIT I
TOOL MATERIALS AND HEAT TREATMENT
Introduction, properties of materials, Ferrous tooling materials: tools steels, cast iron and mild or low
carbon steels; non metallic tooling materials, nonferrous tooling materials, heat treating, appearance of
carbon in steel, factor affecting heat treating, heat treatment and tool design.
UNIT - II
DESIGN OF CUTTING TOOLS
Introduction, a brief history of metal cutting, the metal cutting process: the basic
requirements of a cutting tool, mechanism and geometry of chip formation, general
consideration for metal cutting, metal cutting tools: single point cutting tools, milling cutters,
drills and drilling, types of drills, reamers, reamer classification, taps, taps classification; the
selection of carbide cutting tools: carbide tools determination of shank size for single point
carbide tools, determining the insert thickness for carbide tools
UNIT - III
DESIGN OF DRILL JIGS AND FIXTURES
Introduction, definition of a drill jig, types of drill jig, chip formation in drilling, general
considerations in the design of drill jigs, drill bushing, methods of construction, drill jigs and modern
manufacturing,. fixtures and economics, types of fixtures: vice fixtures, milling fixtures, boring fixtures,
broaching fixtures, lathe fixtures, grinding fixtures;
168
UNIT -IV
DESIGN OF SHEET METAL BLANKING AND PIERCING DIES
Introduction, introduction to die cutting operations: the fundamentals of die cutting
operations, power press types, general press information, materials handling equipment.
cutting action in punch and die operations. die clearance, types of die construction; die design
fundamentals: blanking and piercing die construction, pilots, stripper and pressure pads, presswork
material, strip layout, short-run tooling for piercing.
UNIT- V
DESIGN OF SHEET METAL BENDING, FORMING AND DRAWING DIES
Introduction, bending dies, drawing dies, forming dies, drawing operations, variables that affect
metal flow during drawing. determining blank size, drawing force, single and double - action draw
dies.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Tool Design by Cyril Donaldson, George H LeCain & V C Goold; Publisher:
Tata McGraw Hill
REFERENCES:
1. Fundamentals of Tool Design by David Splitler, Jelf Lantrip & D. A. Smith;
Publisher: Society of Manufacturing Engineers
2. Production Engineering by P.C. Sharma; Publisher: Sultan Chand.
169
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 1 3
(MED1123) MECHANICAL VIBRATIONS
Course prerequisites: Design of Machine Members, Engineering Mechanics, Maths
Course Objectives:
 Understand and appreciate the importance of vibrations in mechanical design
of machine parts that operate in vibratory conditions.
 Develop linear vibratory models of dynamic systems with changing
complexities (SDOF, MDOF).
 Formulate the differential equations of motion of vibratory systems.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Apply vibration analysis in mechanical design of machine parts that operate
in vibratory conditions.
 Evaluate at linear mathematical models of real life engineering systems.
 Analyze the mathematical model of linear vibratory system to determine its
response.
 Analyze vibration of continuous system under various conditions.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Introduction to vibrations & basic concepts
SINGLE DEGREE OF FREEDOM SYSTEMS – I
Undamped and damped free vibrations, Forced vibrations, Coulomb damping,
Response to excitation, Rotating unbalance and support excitation, Vibration isolation
and transmissibility.
UNIT II
SINGLE DEGREE OF FREEDOM SYSTEMS – II
Response to non periodic excitations, Unit impulse, Unit step and unit ramp functions,
Response to arbitrary excitations, The convolution integral, Shock spectrum, System
response by the Laplace Transformation method.
UNIT III
VIBRATION MEASURING INSTRUMENTS
Vibrometers, Velocity meters & Accelerometers.
NUMERICAL METHODS
Rayleigh Stodola matrix iteration, Rayleigh Ritz method and Holzer method.
UNIT IV
TWO DEGREE FREEDOM SYSTEMS
Principal modes, Undamped and damped free and forced vibrations, Undamped
vibration absorbers.
170
MULTI DEGREE FREEDOM SYSTEMS
Matrix formulation, Stiffness and flexibility influence coefficients, Eigen value problem,
Normal modes and their properties, Free and forced vibration by Modal analysis,
Method of matrix inversion, Torsional vibrations of multi-rotor systems and geared
systems, Discrete time systems.
UNIT V
CONTINUOUS SYSTEM
Free vibration of strings, Longitudinal oscillations of bars, Traverse vibrations of
beams, Torsional vibration of shafts.
CRITICAL SPEEDS OF SHAFTS
Critical speeds without and with damping, secondary critical speed.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Fundamentals of Vibrations by Leonard Meirovitch; Publisher: McGraw Hill
2. Mechanical Vibrations by Groower G. K.
REFERENCES:
1. Mechanical Vibrations by Tse and Morse
2. Vibration problems in Engineering by S. P. Timoshenko
3. Mechanical Vibrations by S.Graham Kelly; Publisher: Schaum’s Outline, TMH
4. Mechanical Vibrations by Rao S. S., Publisher: Pearson
5. Mechanical Vibrations by Rao V Dukkipati & J. Srinivas, Publisher: Prentice
Hall
6. Mechanical Vibrations by V. Ram Murthy
171
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 1 3
(AED1115) AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
Course prerequisites: Thermodynamics, Basic Electrical Engineering
Course Objectives:
 Understand the Working of Fuel, Ignition, and cooling Systems
 Understand the Working of Lubrication and Electrical Systems.
 Understand the Working of transmission, Suspension, Steering and Braking
Systems.
 Understand about constructional details of electronic components
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Learn the concepts, functions and working of automotive systems and
subsystems.
 Gain knowledge on constructional details and functionality of automotive
cooling, lubrication and fuel systems.
 Able to explain the constructional details and functionality of automotive
electrical, driveline and transmission systems.
 Able to explain the constructional details and functionality of automotive
electrical, driveline and transmission systems.
UNIT – I
INTRODUCTION
Components of four wheeler automobile – chassis and body – power unit – power
transmission – rear wheel drive, front wheel drive, 4 wheel drive – types of automobile
engines, engine construction, turbo charging and super charging –
ENGINE LUBRICATION
Splash and pressure lubrication systems, oil filters, oil pumps – crank case ventilation –
engine service, reboring, decarbonisation, Nitriding of crank shaft.
COOLING SYSTEM
Cooling Requirements, Air Cooling, water Cooling, Thermo syphon and Forced
Circulation System – Radiators – Types – Cooling Fan - water pump, thermostat,
pressure sealed cooling – antifreeze solutions.
UNIT – II
FUEL SYSTEM
S. I. ENGINE: Fuel supply systems, Mechanical and electrical fuel pump – filters –
carburettor – types – air filters – petrol injection.
172
C. I. ENGINES
Requirements of diesel injection systems, types of injection systems, fuel pump,
nozzle, spray formation, injection timing, testing of fuel pumps.
EMISSION FROM AUTOMOBILES AND ALTERNATE FUELS
Pollution standards, National and international, Pollution Controll, Techniques,
Multipoint fuel injection for SI Engines, Common rail diesel injection Energy
alternatives, Photo-voltaic, hydrogen, LPG, CNG, hybrid and electrical vehicles their
merits and demerits.
UNIT – III
ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
Lead acid battery, generator, current – voltage regulator, starting system, Bendix drive
mechanism, solenoid switch, lighting systems, Horn, wiper, fuel gauge, oil pressure
gauge, engine temperature indicator etc.
IGNITION SYSTEM
Function of an ignition system, battery ignition system, contact breaker points,
condenser and spark plug – Magneto coil ignition system, electronic ignition system
using contact breaker, electronic ignition using contact triggers – spark advance and
retard mechanism.
UNIT – IV
TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
Clutches, principle, types, single plate clutch, multi plate clutch, centrifugal clutches,
fluid fly wheel – gear boxes, types, sliding mesh, constant mesh, synchro mesh gear
boxes, epicyclic gear box , over drive, torque converter, Propeller shaft, Hotch – Kiss
drive, Torque tube drive, universal joint, differential rear axles – types, wheels and
tyres.
SUSPENSION SYSTEM
Objects of suspension systems – rigid axle suspension system, torsion bar, shock
absorber, Independent suspension system, air suspension system, MacPherson Strut
suspension system.
UNIT-V
STEERING SYSTEM
Steering geometry – camber, castor, king pin inclination, combined angle, toe-in, toe-
out, center point steering. Types of steering mechanism – Ackerman steering
mechanism, Davis steering mechanism, steering gears – types, steering linkages
under steering and over steering, Power steering.
BRAKING SYSTEM
Mechanical brake system, Hydraulic brake system, Master cylinder, wheel cylinder,
tandem master cylinder, Requirement of brake fluid, Pneumatic and Vacuum brakes,
ABS (Anti Lock Breaking System).
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Automotive Mechanics by Heitner
2. Automotive Mechanics by William Crouse
173
REFERENCES:
1. A Text Book of Automobile Engineering by Manzoor, Nawazish Mehdi &
Yosuf Ali; Publisher: Frontline Publications
2. Automotive Engineering by Newton; Publisher: Steeds & Garrett
3. Automotive Mechanics by G. B. S. Narang
4. Automotive Engines by Srinivasan
5. Automobile Engineering by K. K. Ramalingam; Publisher: Scitech
6. Automobile Engineering Vol. 1 & Vol. 2 by Kripal Singh
174
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 1 3
(MED1134) ADVANCED SOLID MECHANICS
Course prerequisites: Mechanics of solids basics, Engineering Mechanics,
Mathematics.
Course Objectives:
 Quote the concept of stress and strain in 3-D case.
 Summarize details on cauchy’s formula, Mohr’s circle, Drucker-pager yield
criteria, shear effect on inelastic bending.
 Demonstrate the application of theories of failure under elastic and plastic
deformation.
 Analyze concept of torsion, buckling and stability, columns with eccentric
axis loads.
 Explain method of superposition, principal of work, power and energy and its
importance.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Quote Stress equilibrium equations to Solve solid mechanics problems
effectively.
 Describe the theories of failure for various design aspects.
 Apply the concepts of torsion, buckling and stability, columns with eccentric
axis loads for real life situations.
 Analyze stresses built in various members for a given application.
UNIT I
THREE DIMENSIONAL STRESSES
Introduction, Stress and Strains in 3-D – Cauchy’s formula, Principal Stress,
hydrostatic stress, deviatoric stress, stress transformations, Mohr circle, octahedral
shear stress, strain energy densities, etc.
THEORIES OF FAILURE
Yield criteria: general concepts – maximum principal stress criterion, maximum
principal strain criterion, and strain-energy density criterion; Yielding of ductile metals –
maximum shear stress (Tresca) criterion, distortional energy density (von mises)
criterion, and effect of hydrostatic stress and the - plane; alternative yield criteria –
mohr-coulomb yield criterion, Drucker-Prager yield criterion, and Hill’s criterion for
orthotropic materials; General yielding – elastic-plastic bending, fully plastic moment,
shear effect on inelastic bending, modulus of rupture, comparison of failure criteria, and
interpretation of failure criteria for general yielding.
175
UNIT II
UNSYMMETRICAL BENDING
Introduction; Doubly symmetric beams with skew loads; Pure bending of unsymmetric
beams; Generalized theory of pure bending; Bending of beams by lateral loads; Shear
centre; Shear stresses in beams of thin-walled open cross sections; Shear centers of
thin walled open sections; General theory for shear stresses.
BENDING OF CURVED BEAMS
Introduction; Circumferential stresses in a curved beam – location of neutral axis of
cross section; Radial stresses in curved beams – curved beams made from anisotropic
materials; Correction of circumferential stresses in curved beams having I, T, or similar
cross sections – Bleich’s correction factors; Deflections of curved beams – cross
sections in the form of an I, T, etc.; Statically indeterminate curved beams – fully plastic
versus maximum elastic loads for curved beams
UNIT III
TORSION
Torsion of Non-circular members, hollow members, thin walled sections; Membrane
Analogy
COLUMNS
Buckling and stability; Columns with pinned ends; Columns with other support
conditions; Columns with eccentric axis loads; Secant formula; Imperfections in
columns; Elastic and inelastic column behavior; Inelastic buckling; Column design
formulas.
UNIT IV
BEAM ON ELASTIC FOUNDATIONS
General theory; Infinite beam subjected to concentrated load: boundary conditions –
method of superposition, and beam supported on equally spaced discrete elastic
supports; Infinite beam subjected to a distributed load segment – uniformly distributed
load; semi infinite beam subjected to loads at its end; semi infinite beam with
concentrated load near its end; Short beams.
UNIT V
ENERGY METHODS
Introduction; Principal of virtual work; Unit-load method for calculating displacements;
Reciprocal theorems; Strain-energy and complementary energy; Strain-energy
methods; Complementary energy methods; Castigliano’s second theorem; Shear
deflections of beams. Introduction to Photoelasticity
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Advanced Mechanics of Materials (6E) by Arthur P. Boresi and Richard J.
Schmidt; Publisher: John Wiley.
2. Mechanics of Materials by J. M. Gere and S. Timoshenko; Publisher: CBS
REFERENCES:
1. Strength of Materials (part 2): Advanced Theory and Problems by Stephen
Timoshenko; Publisher: CBS
176
2. Engineering Mechanics of Solids by E.P.Popov; Publisher: Pearson
Education.
3. Strength of Materials Schaum’s Series.
177
R12
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 1 3
(MED1142) FLUID POWER SYSTEMS
Course prerequisites: Fluid Mechanics, Thermodynamics, Engineering Mechanics,
Mathematics.
Course Objectives:
 Understand about the hydraulic control system components.
 Understand about the pneumatic control system components.
 Understand about the feedback systems used in fluid power circuits.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Apply fundamental knowledge of hydraulic systems in automation.
 Apply fundamental knowledge of pneumatic systems in automation.
 Apply fundamental knowledge of feedback systems in automation.
 Evaluate the experimental results with theoretical concepts.
UNIT-I
HYDRAULIC POWER SYSTEMS
Introduction, Classification of Power Systems - Mechanical Power Systems, Electrical
Power Systems, Pneumatic Power Systems, Hydrodynamic Power Systems,
Hydrostatic Power Systems, Basic Hydraulic Power Systems, The Advantages and
Disadvantages of Hydraulic Systems, Comparing Power Systems.
Basic Properties of Hydraulic Oils, Classification of Hydraulic Fluids, Typically Used
Hydraulic Fluids, Mineral Oils, Fire-Resistant Fluids, Additives, Requirements Imposed
on the Hydraulic Liquid
UNIT-II
HYDRAULIC PUMPS
Introduction, Classification of Pumps – Bent Axis Axial Piston Pumps, Swash Plate
Pumps with Axial Pistons, Swash Plate Pumps with Inclined Pistons, Axial Piston
Pumps with Rotating Swash Plate-Wobble Plate, Radial Piston Pumps with Eccentric
Cam Ring, Radial Piston Pumps with Eccentric Shafts, Radial Piston Pumps of Crank
Type, External Gear Pumps, Internal Gear Pumps, Gerotor Pumps, Screw Pumps,
Vane Pumps, Variable Displacement Pumps, Rotodynamic Pumps
UNIT-III
HYDRAULIC CONTROL VALVES
Introduction, Pressure-Control Valves, Direct-Operated Relief Valves, Pilot-Operated
Relief Valves, Pressure-Reducing Valves, Sequence Valves, Accumulator Charging
Valve, Directional Control Valves – types, Check Valves – types, Flow Control Valves –
types
178
ACCESSORIES
Hydraulic Accumulators - Classification, Construction, Operation and Applications of
Hydraulic Accumulators, Hydraulic Filters, Hydraulic Pressure Switches – types.
UNIT-IV
HYDRAULIC ACTUATORS
Hydraulic Cylinders – Construction, Classification, Hydraulic Rotary Actuators – types,
Hydraulic Motors – types, Hydraulic Circuits.
HYDRAULIC SERVO ACTUATORS
Construction, Operation and Applications of Hydraulic Servo Actuators, Valve-
Controlled Actuators.
UNIT-V
PNEUMATIC SYSTEMS
Introduction, Peculiarities of Pneumatic Systems, Advantages and Disadvantages of
Pneumatic Systems, Basic Elements of Pneumatic Systems, Basic Pneumatic Circuits,
Air Compressors, Pneumatic Reservoirs, Air Filters, Air Lubricators, Pneumatic Control
Valves, Manual Control of a Single- Acting Cylinder, Unidirectional Speed Control of a
Single-Acting Cylinder, Bidirectional Speed Control of a Single-Acting Cylinder,
Bidirectional Speed Control of a Double-Acting Cylinder, Unidirectional and Quick
Return Control of a Double-Acting Cylinder.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Fluid Power Engineering - M. Galal Rabie - McGraw-Hill publications
REFERENCES:
1. Design of Hydraulic Control Systems - Ernest e. Lewis, Hansjoerg stern -
McGraw-hill Publications,
2. Fluid Power Control - John f. Blackburn, Gerhard Reethof, J. Lowen shearer -
John Wiley and sons inc.
R12
179
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AEI Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 1 3
(MED1144) RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES
Course prerequisites: Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer
Course Objectives:
 Understand about the concept of renewable energy sources
 Impart the knowledge on governing equations for power generation
 Understand about the different types of solar and wind equipments
 Understand about the improvement of work efficiencies
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 To understand the working principles of renewable energy.
 Development of governing equations for power generation.
 Design, Fabricate and testing of different solar equipments.
 Design and improve working efficiency of wind turbine.
UNIT-I
PRINCIPLES OF RENEWABLE ENERGY
Introduction; Energy and sustainable development; Fundamentals; Scientific principles
of renewable energy; Technical Implications; Social implications.
Introduction to Wind energy, Geothermal energy and Tidal energy.
UNIT-II
SOLAR RADIATION
Introduction; Extraterrestrial solar radiation; Components of radiation; Geometry of
Earth and Sun; Geometry of collector and solar beam; Effects of Earths atmosphere;
Measurements of solar radiation; Estimation of solar radiation.
SOLAR WATER HEATING
Introduction; Calculation of heat balance-general remarks; Uncovered solar water
heaters-progressive analysis; Improved solar water heaters; Systems with separate
storage; Selective surfaces; Evacuated collectors; Social and environmental aspects.
UNIT-III
BUILDINGS AND OTHER SOLAR APPLICATIONS
Introduction; Air heaters; Energy-efficient buildings; Crop driers; Space cooling; water
desalination; Solar ponds; Solar concentrators; Solar thermal electric power systems
;Social and environmental aspects.
UNIT-IV
PHOTVOLTAIC GENERATION
Introduction; The silicon P-N junction; Photon absorption at the junction; Solar radiation
absorption Maximising cell efficiency; Solar cell construction; Types and adaptation of
180
photovoltaics; Photovoltaic circuit properties; Applications and systems; Social and
environmental aspects.
UNIT-V
BIOMASS AND BIOFUEL
Introduction; Biofuel classification; Biomass production for energy farming; Direct
combustion for heat; Pyrolysis (destructive distillation); Further thermochemical
processes; Alcoholic fermentation; Anaerobic digestion for biogas; wastes and
residues; Vegetable oils and biodiesel; social and environmental aspects
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Non Conventional Energy Sources by G. D. Rai;
2. Renewable Energy Resources by Tiwari & Ghosal; Publisher: Narosa
3. Solar Energy by Sukhatme
REFERENCES:
1. Principles of Solar Energy by Frank Krieth & J. F. Kreider
2. Solar Power Engineering by B. S. Magal, Frank Krieth & J. F. Kreider
3. Renewable Energy sources by John Twidell & Tony Weir; Publisher: Taylor
and Francis
181
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 1 3
(MED1171) INTRODUCTION TO AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY AND AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS
Course prerequisites: Engineering Mechanics, Machine Design, Fluid Mechanics,
Basic Electricals and Electronics.
Course Objectives:
 Appraise aircraft industry and evaluate the basic components of Aircrafts.
 Evaluate electrical, mechanical and electronic equipments of Aircraft.
 Apply basic principles of flight.
 Interpret principles of aircraft stability, control and maneuverability.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Identify and analyze various aircraft configurations.
 Examine various aircraft sub-systems.
 Analyze the flow characteristics and forces on air craft structures.
 Examine problems of stability of aircrafts and flight characteristics.
UNIT- I
AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
Evolution and History of Flight, Types Of Aerospace Industry, Key Players in
Aerospace Industry, Aerospace Manufacturing, Industry Supply Chain, Prime
contractors, Tier 1 Suppliers, Key challenges in Industry Supply Chain, OEM Supply
Chain Strategies, Mergers and Acquisitions, Aerospace Industry Trends, Advances in
Engineering/CAD/CAM/CAE Tools and Materials technology, Global and Indian Aircraft
Scenario.
UNIT- II
INTRODUCTION TO AIRCRAFTS
Basic components of an Aircraft, Structural members, Aircraft Axis System, Aircraft
Motions, Control surfaces and High lift Devices. Types of Aircrafts - Lighter than
Air/Heavier than Air Aircrafts Conventional Design Configurations based on Power
Plant Location, Wing vertical location, intake location, Tail Unit Arrangements, Landing
Gear Arrangements. Unconventional Configurations-Biplane, Variable Sweep, Canard
Layout, Twin Boom Layouts, Span loaders, Blended Body Wing Layout, STOL and
STOVL Aircraft, Stealth Aircraft, Advantages and disadvantages of these
Configurations.
182
UNIT- III
INTRODUCTION TO AIRCRAFT SYSTEM
Types of Aircraft systems, Mechanical systems. Electrical and Electronic Systems.
Auxiliary systems. Mechanical Systems: Environmental control systems (ECS),
Pneumatic systems, Hydraulic systems, Fuel systems, Landing gear systems, Engine
Control Systems, Ice and rain protection systems, Cabin Pressurization and Air
Conditioning Systems, Steering and Brakes Systems Auxiliary Power Unit, Electrical
systems: Avionics, Flight controls, Autopilot and Flight Management Systems,
Navigation Systems, Communication, Information systems, Radar System.
UNIT – IV
BASIC PRINCIPLES OF FLIGHT
Significance of speed of Sound, Air speed and Ground Speed, Properties of
Atmosphere, Bernoulli’s Equation, Forces on the airplane, Airflow over wing section,
Pressure Distribution over a wing section, Generation of Lift, Drag, Pitching moments,
Types of
Drag, Lift curve, Drag Curve, Lift/Drag Ratio Curve, Factors affecting Lift and Drag,
Center of Pressure and its effects. Aerofoil
Nomenclature, Types of Aerofoil, Wing Section- Aerodynamic Center, Aspect Ratio,
Effects of lift, Drag, speed, Air density on drag.
UNIT - V
BASICS OF FLIGHT MECHANICS
Mach Waves, Mach Angles, Sonic and Supersonic Flight and its effects
STABILITY AND CONTROL
Degree of Stability- Lateral, Longitudinal and Directional Stability and controls of
Aircraft. Effects of Flaps and Slats on Lift Coefficients, Control Tabs, Stalling, Landing,
Gliding Turning, Speed of Sound, Mach Numbers, Shock Waves.
AIRCRAFT PERFORMANCE AND MANEUVERS
Power Curves, Maximum and minimum speeds of horizontal flight, Effects of Changes
of Engine Power, Effects of Altitude on Power Curves, Forces acting on a Aeroplane
during a Turn, Loads during a Turn, Correct and incorrect Angles of Bank, Aerobatics,
Inverted Maneuvers, Maneuverability.
REFERENCES:
1. Flight without Formulae by A.C Kermode, Pearson Education,10th Edition
2. Mechanics of Flight by A.C. Kermode, Pearson Education,5th Edition
3. Fundamentals of Flight by Shevell, Pearson Education, 2nd Edition
4. Introduction to Flight by Dave Anderson
5. Aircraft Systems: Mechanical, Electrical & Avionics Subsystems Integration
by Ian Moir, Allan Seabridge
6. Aircraft Design-A Conceptual Approach by Daniel P. Raymer, AIAA
education series,6th Edition
7. Airframe Structural Design by Michael Niu, Conmilit Press, 1988, 2nd Edition
183
8. Airframe Stress Analysis and Sizing by Michael Niu, Conmilit Press, 1999,
3rd Edition
9. The Elements of Aircraft Preliminary Design by Roger D. Schaufele,
Publisher: Aries
10. Aircraft Structural Maintenance by Dale Hurst, Publisher: Avotek
11. Aircraft Maintenance and Repair by Frank Delp, Michael J. Kroes & William
A. Watkins, Glencoe, Publisher: McGraw-Hill
12. An Introduction to Aircraft Certification; A Guide to Understanding Jaa, Easa
and FAA by Filippo De Florio; Publisher: Butterworth-Heinemann
184
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(MED1207) INSTRUMENTATION LAB
Course prerequisites: physics and metrology
Course Objectives:
 Understand principles involved in calibration
 Learn about the temperature sensor(thermocouple, thermistors, RTD’s)
 Aware of pneumatic and hydraulic pressure concepts
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Perform the calibration on pressure gauges, temperature detector and LVDT.
 Study the working and calibrate photo and magnetic pickups and semi
pickups
 Perform the calibration on rotometer for flow measurement
 Study the working of strain gauge for force measurement
Instrumentation Lab:
Any Six experiments to be conducted from the following:
1. Calibration of pressure gauge using dead pressure gauge wait test
2. Study and calibration of LVDT transducer for displacement measurement.
3 Calibration of thermister for temperature measurement.
4. Calibration of thermocouple for temperature measurement.
5. Calibration of capacitive transducer for angular displacement.
6. Study and calibration of photo and magnetic speed pickups for the measurement
of speed.
7. Calibration of resistance temperature detector for temperature measurement.
8. Study and calibration of a rotometer for flow measurement.
9. Study and use of a seismic pickup for the measurement of vibration amplitude of
an Engine bed at various loads.
10. Calibration of stain gauges for force measurement
185
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(MED1209) CAD/CAM LAB
Course prerequisites: CAD, CAM and SOM.
Course Objectives:
 Understand the ways in which 2D sketches and 3D models –solid and
surface are made using appropriate CAD packages.
 Know the procedure of building assembly drawings and obtain drafted views
from it.
 Learn the part programming techniques in turning, milling and drilling
operations.
 Understand the determination of stresses and strains in systems like trusses
and beams.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Summarize the skills learnt in sketching and modeling using CAD packages.
 Design product assemblies and obtain drafted views from it.
 Analyze the stress and strain in various structures.
 Produce components with different features using CNC machines and
machining centers.
12 exercises from the following syllabus:
1. CAD:
i) 2D Drawing using Sketcher workbench – 2 drawings
ii) 3D Modeling and drafting using 3D features – 2 models
iii) Assembly and drafting – 1 assemblies
iv) Surface Modeling – 1 exercise
v) Sheet Metal Working – 1 exercise
Softwares: AutoCAD, IronCAD, CATIA, CREO
2. CAM:
i) Part programming for Turning, Facing, Chamfering, Grooving, Step turning,
Taper turning operations.
ii) Part programming for Point to point motions, Linear motions, Circular
interpolation, Contour motion, Pocket milling - Circular, Rectangular and
Mirror commands.
iii) Part Programming using Fixed or Canned Cycles for Drilling, Peck drilling,
Boring, Tapping, Turning, Facing, Taper turning, Thread cutting.
iv) Generation of tool path, NC part program and its simulation.
v) Machining of small components using CNC Lathe, CNC Mill and CNC
Turning center.
Softwares: CNC Offline Simulation, EdgeCAM
186
3. CAE:
a) Determination of deflection and stresses in 2D and 3D trusses and beams.
b) Determination Principal/ Von-mises stresses and deflections, in plane
stress/ plane strain/ axisymmetric models.
c) Determination of stresses in 3D and shell structures.
Softwares: Ansys
187
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(MED1138) INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING AND MANAGEMENT
Course prerequisites: Manufacturing, General Management, Business Economics,
Mathematics & Statistics
Course Objectives:
 Perform as industry leaders in the global marketplace, capable of
successfully planning, controlling, and implementing large-scale projects.
 Flourish and work effectively in diverse, multicultural environments
emphasizing the application of teamwork and communication skills.
 Understand and apply the principles of Management, science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics involving industry-relevant problems.
 Understand about the knowledge on professional practice
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Apply knowledge of Management, mathematics, science, and engineering.
 Evaluates the system, component, or process to meet desired needs within
realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical,
health and safety, manufacturability and sustainability.
 Analyzes and applies the IEM, Communicate effectively, Function on
multidisciplinary teams.
 Solves the contemporary & emerging issues important to professional
practice.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING AND MANAGEMENT
Concept of Industrial Engineering (I.E),History and Development of I.E, Role of I.E,
Applications of I.E, Production Management vs I.E, Principles of Management,
Functions of Management, Taylor's Scientific Management, Maslow's Theory of
Human Needs, Leadership Styles, Principles of Organization, Types of Organization
Structures their Merits and Demerits, Entrepreneurship.
UNIT II
PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT
Plant Location, Principles of Plant Layout, Different Types of Plant Layouts, different
Types of Production Systems, Travel Chart Technique, Simple Problems on Assembly
Line Balancing.
Production Planning and Control: Production Cycle, Product Design and Development,
Production Planning and Control Techniques, Simple problems.
188
PLANT MAINTENANCE
Objectives and Types, Equipment Selection, Maintenance Planning.
Materials Handling- Principles, Concept of Unit Load, Containerization, Selection of
Material Handling Equipment, Applications of Belt Conveyors, Cranes, Forklift Trucks
in Industry.
UNIT III
WORK STUDY
Concept of Productivity, Method Study - Basic steps in Method Study, Process Charts,
Diagrams, Models and Templates, Principles of Motion Economy, Micro Motion Study,
Therbligs, SIMO Chart. Work Measurement - Stop Watch Procedure of Time Study,
Performance Rating, Allowances, Work Sampling, Simple Problems.
MATERIALS MANAGEMENT
Introduction, Purchasing, Objectives of Purchasing Department, Buying Techniques,
Purchase Procedure, Stores and Material Control, Inventory Control, EOQ
Model(Simple Problems), Supply Chain Management.
Quality Control - Statistical Quality Control, Control Charts for Variables and Attribute,
Simple Problems, Acceptance Sampling, Deming's Contribution to Quality. Total
Quality Management, Taguchi’s Quality Engineering, Value Analysis and Value
Engineering
UNIT IV
MARKETING
Functions of Marketing, Marketing Mix, Product Life Cycle. Channels of Distribution
and Sales Management.
Manufacturing planning: MRP, MRP-II, JIT, CIM
Materials Handling- Principles, Concept of Unit Load, Containerization, Pelletization,
Selection of Material Handling Equipment, Applications of Belt Conveyors, Cranes,
Forklift Trucks in Industry.
UNIT V
HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (HRM)
Concepts of HRM, Basic Functions of HR Manager: Manpower Planning, Recruitment,
Selection, Training and Development, Placement, Wage and Salary Administration,
Promotion, Transfer, Separation, Performance Appraisal.
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
Trade Unions, Industrial Disputes, Strikes, Lock-Out, Picketing, Gherao, Settlement of
Industrial Disputes, Collective Bargaining, Industrial Dispute Act 1947 and Factories
Act 1948.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Aryasri: Management Science, TMH, New Delhi, 2009
2. Industrial Engineering Management, by Dr. O. P .Khanna.
REFERENCES:
1. Principles of Management by Koontz and ODonnel.
2. Production and Operations Management by Everette Adamand Ronald Ebert.
189
3. Operations Management by John McClain and Joseph Thames.
4. Industrial Engineering and Production Management by Tulsa, S. Chand and
Co.
190
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 4 0 4
(MED1139) UNCONVENTIONAL MACHINING PROCESSES
Course prerequisites: Manufacturing Technology & Engineering Materials
Course Objectives:
 Know the classification of various Non-Traditional machining processes and
know the importance of Thermal energy based machining processes.
 Understand the working principles of chemical energy based material
removal processes.
 Remember the Working principles of thermal energy and electrical energy
based material removal processes
 Remember the working principles of mechanical energy based material
removal processes.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Understand various Non-Traditional machining methods which are applicable
for difficult-to-cut materials, defense and aerospace sectors.
 Decide the process parameters to be adopted and applicability of various
materials that are suitable for mechanical energy based machining
processes.
 Decide the process parameters to be adopted and applicability of various
materials that are suitable for spark energy based machining processes.
 Decide the process parameters to be adopted and applicability of various
materials that are suitable for chemical and thermal energy based machining
processes.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Unconventional Machining Process, Need, Classification, Brief overview of all
techniques, Study of material removal phenomena.
UNIT II
MECHANICAL ENERGY BASED PROCESSES
Abrasive Jet Machining – Water Jet Machining – Abrasive Water Jet Machining-
Ultrasonic Machining (AJM, WJM, AWJM, USM). Working Principles – equipment used
– Process parameters – MRR – Applications.
UNIT III
ELECTRICAL ENERGY BASED PROCESSES
Electric Discharge Machining (EDM) - working Principles-equipments-Process
Parameters-MRR- electrodes Used – Power Circuits – Dielectric – Flushing –
Applications, Wire Cut EDM- Applications
191
UNIT IV
CHEMICAL AND ELECTRO-CHEMICAL ENERGY BASED PROCESSES
Chemical Machining and Electro-Chemical machining (CHM and ECM)-Etchants-
maskants -techniques of applying maskants-Process Parameters – MRR-Applications-
Principles of ECM-equipments-MRR-Processes Parameters.
UNIT V
THERMAL ENERGY BASED PROCESSES
Laser Beam Machining (LBM), Plasma Arc Machining (PAM) and Electron Beam
Machining (EBM), Principles-Equipment-Process Parameters - Applications.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Advanced Machining Processes by Vijay K. Jain; Publisher: Allied Publishers
REFERENCES:
1. Nontraditional Manufacturing Processes by Benedict. G. F; Publisher: Marcel
Dekker
2. Advanced Methods of Machining by McGeough; Publisher: Chapman and
Hall, London
3. Unconventional Machining Processes by P. K. Mishra; Publisher: Narosa
192
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 4 0 4
(MED1145) NANOTECHNOLOGY
Course prerequisites: Physics, Metallurgy, Composite Materials
Course Objectives:
 Understand about the importance of nanotechnology
 Understand about the knowledge on Nano Materials
 Understand about the nanotubes and Nano materials
 Understand about the applications of nano science in various sectors
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Create solutions in engineering, biotechnology and manufacturing by
identifying current nanotechnology.
 Apply the fundamental knowledge of science to characterize the Nano
Materials.
 Synthesize carbon Nano tubes and Nano materials.
 Evaluate tools in Nano science for applications in various sectors.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO NANO
Importance, Definition and scope, Nano size, challenges, applications. Electrons,
Atoms and Ions, Molecules, Metals, Other Materials.
HISTORY OF NANO-SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
Nano magnetism as a case study; Fundamental terms (Physics & Chemistry) in nano-
science and technology; Feynman’s perspective; Scaling laws pertaining to mechanics,
optics, electromagnetism; Importance of Quantum mechanics, statistical mechanics
and chemical kinetics in nano-science and technology;
UNIT II
CLASSIFICATION OF NANO MATERIALS
Scientific basis for top-down and bottom-up approaches to synthesize Nanomaterials;
How to characterize Nanomaterials? Electrons in Nanomaterials
TOOLS OF THE NANOSCIENCE
Tools for Measuring Nanostructures, Tools to Make Nanostructures. Nano scale
Biostructures, Energy Capture, Transformation, and Storage Optics, Magnets,
Fabrication, Electronics, Electronics Again Modelling
UNIT III
NANO-BIOTECHNOLOGY
Bio-molecules; Biosensors; Nanomaterials in drug delivery; Working in clean room
environments; Safety and related aspects of Nanomaterials
193
UNIT IV
CARBON NANOTUBES & STRUCTURES
Carbon Nano structures and types of Carbon Nano tubes, growth mechanisms of
carbon nanotubes. Carbon clusters and Fullerenes, Synthesis of CNTs by Flame, CVD,
Laser & Arc-discharge process.
UNIT V
Lithium & Hydrogen adsorption & storages, Fuel cell applications and energy storage,
Chemical Sensors applications of CNTs
TEXT BOOKS & REFERENCES:
1. Nanotechnology Fundamentals and Applications- by Manasi Karkare I.K
International
2. Nanoscience and Nanotechnology in engineering – by Vijay K Varadan A
Sivathanupillai Word scientific
3. Nanotechnology applications to telecommunications and networking By
Daniel Minoli, Wiley Interscience
4. Nanotechnology Principles and Applications by Sulabha Kulkarni
194
R12
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 4 0 4
(MED1146) MAINTENANCE AND SAFETY ENGINEERING
Course prerequisites: Industrial Engineering And Management
Course Objectives:
 Understand the Need for Maintenance and Equipment Life Cycle.
 Understand the types of maintenance Project Control methods.
 Know the use of ABC Inventory Control Method.
 Understand the Goals and Principals of Reliability Centered Maintenance
(RCM)
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Identify the key steps involved in the Engineering Maintenance
 Analyze the different terms and Definitions used in Maintenance
 Understand the concept of Inventory Control and Quality controlling
 Maintainability in Systems Life Cycle Functions and Measures
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Need for Maintenance – Facts and Figures Modern Maintenance – Problem and
Maintenance Strategy for the 21st Century – Engineering Maintenance, Objectives –
Maintenance in Equipment Life Cycle – Terms and Definitions.
MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL
Maintenance Manual Maintenance Facility Evolution – Functions of Effective
Maintenance Management – Maintenance Project Control Methods – Maintenance
Management Control Indices.
UNIT II
TYPES OF MAINTENANCE
Preventive Maintenance - Elements of Preventive Maintenance Programme Evolution
and Improvement – PM measures – PM models – Corrective Maintenance – Types –
Steps – Down Time Components – Measures and Models.
INVENTORY CONTROL IN MAINTENANCE
Objectives, Basics of Inventory Control – Inventory Decision – ABC Inventory Control
Method – Inventory Control Models – Two Bin Inventory Control – Safety Stock –
Spare Parts Management – Determination – Factors – Spares Calculation - Methods
UNIT III
QUALITY AND SAFETY IN MAINTENANCE
Need for Quality Maintenance – Processes – Maintenance of Work Quality – Use of
Control Charts in Maintenance – Work Sampling – Post Maintenance Testing –
Reasons for Safety Problems in Maintenance – Guide Lines to Improve Safety in
195
Maintenance Work – Safety Officers Role in Maintenance Work – Protection Of
Maintenance Workers.
UNIT IV
MAINTENANCE COSTING
Reasons for Maintenance Costing – Maintenance Budget Preparation – Methods and
Steps – Maintenance Labor Cost Estimation – Material Cost Estimation – Equipment
Life Cycle Maintenance Cost Estimation – Maintenance Cost Estimation Models
UNIT V
RELIABILITY
Reliability Centred Maintenance (RCM) – Goals and Principals – RCM Process and
Associated Questions – RCM Benefits and Reasons for its Failure – Reliability VS
Maintenance – Reliability in Support Phase – Bathtub Hazard Rate Concept –
Reliability Measures and Formulas – Reliability Networks – Reliability Analysis
MAINTAINABILITY
Importance and Objectives – Maintainability in Systems Life Cycle – Maintainability
Design Characteristics – Maintainability Functions and Measures – Common
Maintainability Design Errors.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Realiabilty , Maintenance and Safety Engineering by Dr. A.K.Gupta / Laxmi
Publications
2. Industrial Safety Management by L.M. Desh Mukh/ TML publications
REFERENCES:
1. Maintenance Engineering & Management by R.C. Mishra – PHI
2. Reliability Engineering by Elsayed / Pearson
3. Engineering Maintenance – a Modern Approach – B.S. Dhailon 2002, C.R.R.
Publishers.
196
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 4 0 4
(MED1147) DESIGN FOR MANUFACTURING
Course prerequisites: Production Technology, Metallurgy & Material Science, Design
Concepts, Automation, Machine Tools.
Course Objectives:
 To understand the methodology of AFMA, in terms of design
process, Material selection and its relationship with the Manufacturing
Processes
 To understand the manufacturing processes like machining, casting, metal
joining, cold working operations like forging, extrusion of metals
 To understand various sheet metal operations and the design concepts
behind them.
 To understand various design processes to be used manual, automatic
assembly and material handling equipment.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Apply the rules and methods for the design of machine component and
products.
 Apply appropriate methods for selecting the materials and the processes
involved in manufacture of various components and systems.
 Process metals by cold working, sheet metal and joining operations by
applying relevant rules.
 Design and develop manual and automatic assembly processes using
various tools.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Design philosophy, Steps in design process, General design rules for
manufacturability, Basic principles of designing for economical production, Creativity in
design.
MATERIALS
Selection of materials for design, Criteria for material selection, Material selection
interrelationship with process selection, Process Selection charts.
UNIT II
MACHINING PROCESS
Overview of various machining processes, General design rules for machining,
Dimensional tolerance and surface roughness, Design for machining ease,
Redesigning of components for machining ease with suitable examples, General
design recommendations for machined parts.
197
METAL CASTING
Appraisal of various casting processes, Selection of casting process, General design
considerations for casting, Casting tolerances, Use of solidification simulation in
casting design, Product design rules for sand casting.
UNIT III
METAL JOINING
Appraisal of various welding processes, Factors in design of weldments, General
design guidelines - Pre and post treatment of welds, Effects of thermal stresses in weld
joints, Design of brazed joints.
FORGING
Design factors for Forging, Closed die forging design, Parting lines of die drop forging
die design, General design recommendations.
EXTRUSION AND SHEET METAL WORK
Design guidelines for extruded sections, Design principles for Punching, Blanking,
Bending, Deep Drawing, Keeler Goodman Forming Line Diagram, Component design
for Blanking.
UNIT-IV
ASSEMBLY ADVANTAGES
Development of the assembly process, Choice of assembly method, Assembly
advantages, Social effects of automation.
AUTOMATIC ASSEMBLY TRANSFER SYSTEMS
Continuous transfer, Intermittent transfer, Indexing mechanisms and operator - paced
free transfer machine.
UNIT-V
DESIGN OF MANUAL ASSEMBLY
General design guidelines for manual assembly, Development of the systematic DFA
methodology, Assembly efficiency, Classification system for manual handling,
Classification system for manual insertion and fastening, Effect of part symmetry on
handling time, Effect of part thickness and size on handling time, Effect of weight on
handling time.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Assembly Automation and Product Design by Geoffrey Boothroyd, Publisher:
Marcel Dekker Inc.,
2. Engineering Design – Material and Processing Approach by George E.
Dieter, Publisher: McGraw Hill Intl.
REFERENCES:
1. Hand Book of Product Design by Geoffrey Boothroyd, Publisher: Marcel and
Dekker
2. Computer Aided Assembly Planning by A. Delchambre, Publisher: Springer
198
R12
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 4 0 4
(MED1153) PRINCIPLES OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Course prerequisites: General Management & Financial Accounting concepts,
Enthusiasm towards Entrepreneurship
Course Objectives:
 Understand the entrepreneurial process involved in creating, managing a
new enterprise.
 Understand the background and tools necessary to participate in
the entrepreneurial process
 Understand fundamental business framework.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Identify the key steps required for exploiting an innovative idea or opportunity
to develop an existing business, launch a new venture, or initiate a social
enterprise.
 Recognize and evaluate business opportunities under dynamic economic
settings.
 Identify and create opportunities to solve entrepreneurial issues while starting
an enterprise.
 Master the relevance of entrepreneurship to the economic development of
the nation especially regarding job creation and poverty alleviation in general.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Definition of Entrepreneur, Entrepreneurial Traits, Entrepreneur vs. Manager,
Entrepreneur vs Intrapreneur, The Entrepreneurial decision process, Role of
Entrepreneurship in Economic Development, Ethics and Social responsibility of
Entrepreneurs, Opportunities for Entrepreneurs in India and abroad, Woman as
Entrepreneur.
UNIT II
CREATING AND STARTING THE VENTURE
Sources of new Ideas, Methods of generating ideas, creating problem solving, product
planning and development process.
UNIT III
THE BUSINESS PLAN, NEW VENTURE EXPANSION STRATEGIES AND ISSUES
Nature and scope of Business plan, Writing Business Plan, Evaluating Business plans,
Using and implementing business plans. Marketing plan, financial plan and the
organizational plan, Launching formalities. Features and evaluation of joint ventures,
acquisitions, merges, franchising. Public issues, rights issues, bonus issues and stock
splits.
199
UNIT IV
FINANCING AND MANAGING THE NEW VENTURE
Sources of capital, Record keeping, Recruitment, Motivating and leading teams,
Financial controls, Marketing and sales controls, E-commerce and Entrepreneurship,
Internet advertising.
UNIT V
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT TO ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND LABOUR
LEGISLATION
Role of Directorate of Industries, District Industries Centres (DICs), Industrial
Development Corporation (IDC), State Financial Corporation (SFCs), Small Scale
Industries Development Corporations (SSIDCs), Khadi and Village Industries
Commission (KVIC), Technical Consultancy Organisation (TCO), Small Industries
Service Institute (SISI), National Small Industries Corporation (NSIC), Small Industries
Development Bank of India(SIDBI). Salient Provision under Indian Factories Act,
Industrial Disputes Act, Employees State Insurance Act, Workmen's Compensation Act
and payment of Bonus Act.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Robert Hirsch and Michael Peters: Entrepreneurship, TMH, 5th Edition.
2. Dillinger: Entrepreneurship, 4/e, Pearson, 2004.
REFERENCES:
1. Vasant Desai: Dynamics of Entrepreneurial Development and management,
Himalaya Publishing House, 2004.
2. Harvard Business Review on Entrepreneurship, HBR Paper Back, 1999.
3. Robert J.Calvin: Entrepreneurial Management, TMH, 2004.
4. Gurmeet Naroola: The Entrepreneurial Connection, TMH, 2001.
5. Bolton and Thompson: Entrepeneurs- Talent, Temperament, Technique,
Butterworth Heinemann, 2001.
6. Agarwal: Indian Economy, Wishwa Prakashan 2005.
7. Dutt and Sundaram: Indian Economy. S. Chand, 2005.
8. Srivastava: Industrial Relations and Labour Laws, Vikas, 2005.
9. Aruna Kaulgud: Entrepreneurship Management by Vikas Publishing House,
2003.
10. Thomas W. Zimmererand Norman M. Scarborough: Essential of
Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management, PHI, 4/e, 2005.
11. Mary Coulter: Entrepreneurship in Action, PHI, 2/e, 2005.
12. Kaplan: Patterns of Entrepreneurship, Willey, 2005.
13. ND Kapoor: Industrial Law, Sultan Chand and Sons, 2005.
200
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 4 0 4
(MED1154) INTERACTIVE COMPUTER GRAPHICS
Course prerequisites: C Language, Engineering Graphics
Course Objectives:
 To provide students with a foundation in graphics applications programming.
 To give basics of application programming interface (API) implementation
based on graphics pipeline approach.
 To provide students with an overview of the key concepts of digital production
of animation and visual effects with reference to workflow, people and
technology.
 To give students practical experience in the production of 2D,3D computer
animation and Morphing.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Apply the relevant mathematics of computer graphics and be able to write
basic graphics application programs including animation.
 Use the basic aspects of 2D image representations and transformations.
 Implement different methods of digitally representing 3D Object
representations and transformations.
 Name the traditional principles of visible surface detection methods that can
be applied to computer animation.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Introduction, Application area of Computer graphics, Overview of graphic system,
Display devices, Raster-scan systems, Random Scan Systems, Graphics Monitors and
Work stations and Input devices
UNIT II
OUTPUT PRIMITIVES
Points and lines, Line drawing algorithms, Mid-point circle algorithm
FILLED AREA PRIMITIVES
Scan-line polygon fill algorithm, Boundary-fill and flood-fill algorithm
UNIT III
2-D GEOMETRICAL TRANSFORMATIONS
Translation, scaling, rotation, reflection and shear transformation matrix
representations and homogeneous co-ordinates, composite transformations,
transformations between coordinates
2-D VIEWING
The viewing pipe-line, Viewing coordinate reference frame, Window to view-port
coordinate transformations, Viewing function, Cohen-Sutherland and Cyrus-beck line
201
clipping algorithms, Sutherland - Hodgeman polygon clipping algorithm
UNIT IV
3-D OBJECT REPRESENTATION
Polygon surfaces, Quadric surfaces, Spline representation, Hermite curve, Bezier
curve and B-spline curve, Bezier and B-spline surfaces, Basic illumination models,
Shading algorithms
3-D GEOMETRIC TRANSFORMATIONS
Translation, Rotation, Scaling, Reflection and Shear transformation, Composite
transformations
UNIT V
HIDDEN LINE REMOVAL
Visibility of object views, Visibility techniques, Sorting, Coherence,
Formulation and implementation, Sample hidden line algorithms and hidden line
removal for curved surfaces
HIDDEN SURFACE REMOVAL
Z-buffer algorithm and Warnock's algorithm
HIDDEN SOLID REMOVAL
Ray-tracing algorithm
SHADING
Shading models, shading surfaces, Shading enhancements and Shading
solids
COLORING
Color models, User interface or shading and coloring.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Computer Graphics C version by Donald Hearn & M. Pauline Baker;
Publisher: Pearson/PHI
2. Computer Graphics Principles and Practice / 2 edition in C/ Foley, VanDam,
Feiner and Hughes/Pearson Education
3. CAD/CAM - Theory and Practice / Ibrahim Zeid / TMH
REFERENCES:
1. Computer Graphics/ 2 edition / Zhig and kiang, Roy Plastic, Schaum's
outlines/TMH.
2. Procedural elements for Computer Graphics / David F Rogers / Tata Mc
Graw hill/2nd edition.
3. Principles of Interactive Computer Graphics/Neuman and Sproul/TMH.
4. Principles of Computer Graphics/Shalini Govil
202
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 4 0 4
(MED1132) PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE MANAGEMENT
Course prerequisites: Mathematics, computers and use of software’s packages.
Course Objectives:
 Understand PLM Strategies.
 Know the principles of product life cycle.
 Experience effective integration of PLM technologies into the product
development process.
 Familiarize with practices and applications of Product Life cycle
Management (PLM).
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Evaluate an appropriate plant layout for a plant.
 Create Flexible Plant layout to accommodate changes in product volume or
product type.
 Analyze an appropriate material handling system
 Evaluate the systems and equipments used for material storage
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO PLM
Need for PLM, opportunities and benefits of PLM, different views of PLM, components
of PLM, phases of PLM, PLM feasibility study, PLM visioning.
PLM STRATEGIES
Industrial strategies, strategy elements, its identification, selection and implementation,
change management for PLM.
UNIT II
PRODUCT DATA MANAGEMENT (PDM)
PDM systems and importance, reason for implementing a PDM system, financial
justification of PDM, barriers to PDM implementation.
PRODUCT DESIGN
Engineering design, organization and decomposition in product design, product design
process, methodical evolution in product design, concurrent engineering, design for 'X'
and design central development model. Strategies for recovery at end of life, recycling,
human factors in product design. Modeling and simulation in product design.
UNIT III
NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
Structuring new product development, building decision support system, Estimating
market opportunities for new product, new product financial control, implementing new
203
product development, market entry decision, launching and tracking new product
program, Concept of redesign of product.
UNIT IV
TECHNOLOGY FORECASTING
Future mapping, invocating rates of technological change, methods of technology
forecasting such as relevance trees, morphological methods and mission flow diagram,
combining forecast of different technologies, uses in manufacture alternative.
UNIT V
PRODUCT CONCEPTION PROCESS
Business processes, data-process relationship, from the idea to waste disposal
Product structures: Variant management, product configuration, material master data,
product description data, Data models, Life cycles of individual items, status of items.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Fabio Giudice, Guido La Rosa, Product Design for the environment-A life
cycle approach, Taylor and Francis 2006.
2. Robert J. Thomas, NPD: Managing and forecasting for strategic processes.
3. Martins Joseph, Technological Forecasting for decision Making, 2nd edition,
North Holland.
REFERENCES:
1. John Stark, Springer-Verlag, ”Product Lifecycle Management Paradigm for
21st century Product Realization”, London, 3rd printing (2006). 441 pp.,
ISBN: 1-85233-810-5.
2. Product Lifecycle Management, Michael Grieves, Tata McGraw Hill
204
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 4 0 4
(MED1140) PLANT LAYOUT AND MATERIAL HANDLING SYSTEMS
Course prerequisites: Manufacturing, Operations Research
Course Objectives:
 Understand plant layout system, its types and software tools used.
 Identify and learn elements of various material handling systems.
 Understand the benefit of an efficient material handling system and storage
system
 To select the various load lifting attachments
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Evaluate an appropriate plant layout for a plant.
 Create Flexible Plant layout to accommodate changes in product volume or
product type.
 Analyze an appropriate material handling system.
 Evaluate the systems and equipments used for material storage.
UNIT I
PLANT LAYOUTS
Fundamentals of plant layouts, Classification of layout, Advantages and limitations of
different layouts. Layout design procedures. Process Layout and Product Layout:
Comparison, Selection, Specification, Implementation and follow up.
UNIT II
Group Layout and Fixed Position Layout, Quadratic assignment model, Branch and
bound method. Software tools used for making plant layouts – ALDEP, CORELAP,
CRAFT; Case studies
UNIT III
ELEMENTS OF MATERIAL HANDLING SYSTEM
Importance; Terminology; Objectives and benefits of better material handling;
Principles and features of Material Handling System; Interrelationships between
material handling and plant layout; Physical facilities and other organizational
functions; Classification of material handling equipments.
SELECTION OF MATERIAL HANDLING EQUIPMENTS
Factors affecting for selection; Material handling equation; Choices of material handling
equipment; General analysis procedures; Basic analytical techniques; The unit load
concept; Selection of suitable types of systems for applications; Activity cost data and
economic analysis for design of components of material handling systems; Functions
and parameters affecting service; Packing and storage of materials.
205
UNIT IV
HOISTS
Drives for hoisting; Components and hoisting mechanisms; Rail traveling components
and mechanisms; Hoisting gear operation during transient motion; Selecting the motor
rating and determining breaking torque for hoisting mechanisms.
CRANES
Hand-propelled and electrically driven E.O.T. overhead traveling cranes; Traveling
mechanisms of cantilever and monorail cranes; Design considerations for structures of
rotary cranes with fixed radius; Fixed post and overhead traveling cranes; Stability of
stationary rotary and traveling rotary cranes.
ASRS
Introduction to ASRS and AGVS
UNIT V
LOAD LIFTING ATTACHMENTS
Load chains and types of ropes used in material handling system; Forged, Standard
and ramshorn hooks; Crane grabs and clamps; Grab buckets; Electromagnet; Design
consideration for conveyor belts; Application of attachments.
STUDY OF SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENTS USED FOR MATERIAL STORAGE
Objectives of storage; Bulk material handling; Gravity flow of solids through slides and
chutes; Storage in bins and hoppers; Belt conveyors; Bucket-elevators; Screw
conveyors; Vibratory conveyors; Cabin conveyors; Mobile racks etc.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Operations Management A Quantitative Approach by P. B. Mahapatra,
Publisher: Prentice Hall International
2. Operations Management by S. Anil Kumar, N. Suresh, Publisher: New Age
Publishers
3. Material Handling Equipment by N. Rudenko; Publisher: Peace publishers.
4. Facility Layout, Location and Analytical Approach by R. L. Francis, L. F.
McLinnis Jr., White; Publisher: Prentice Hall International
5. Aspects of Material Handling by Dr. K. C. Arora & Shinde; Publisher: Lakshmi
Publications
206
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 4 0 4
(MED1141) COMPUTATIONAL FLUID DYNAMICS
Course prerequisites: Programming, Numerical Methods, Fluid Mechanics.
Course Objectives:
 Understand different methods involved in solving problem numerically.
 Formulate different kinds of physical problems with the different schemes and
boundary conditions.
 Develop a code in a programming language to numerically solve a practical
problem.
 Impart the knowledge on stability analysis
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Solve fluid flow and heat transfer problems using numerical methods &
Programming.
 Critically analyze different mathematical models and computational methods
for flow simulations.
 Write algorithms to solve the complex non linear equations numerically and
able to do a project demonstrating your understanding.
 Conduct the stability analysis and check the applicability of different
schemes.
UNIT-I
ELEMENTARY DETAILS IN NUMERICAL TECHNIQUES
Number system and errors, representation of integers, fractions, floating point
arithmetic, loss of significance and error propagation, condition for instability,
computational methods for error estimation, convergence of sequences.
APPLIED NUMERICAL METHODS
Solution of a system of simultaneous Linear Algebraic Equations, iterative schemes of
Matrix Inversion, Direct Methods for Matrix inversion, Direct Methods for banded
matrices.
UNIT - II
FINITE DIFFERENCE APPLICATIONS IN HEAT CONDUCTION AND CONVECTION
Heat conduction, steady heat conduction in a rectangular geometry, transient heat
conduction, finite difference application in convective heat transfer, closure.
Finite Differences, discretization, consistency, stability, and Fundamentals of fluid flow
modeling: Introduction, elementary finite difference quotients, implementation aspects
of finite-difference equations, consistency, explicit and implicit methods.
207
UNIT - III
INTRODUCTION TO FIRST ORDER WAVE EQUATION
Stability of hyperbolic and elliptic equations, fundamentals of fluid flow modeling,
conservative property, the upwind scheme.
UNIT - IV
REVIEW OF EQUATIONS GOVERNING FLUID FLOW AND HEAT TRANSFER
Introduction, conservation of mass, Newton’s second law of motion, expanded forms of
Navier-stokes equations, conservation of energy principle, special forms of the Navier-
stokes equations.
UNIT-V
FINITE VOLUME METHOD
Approximation of surface integrals, volume integrals, interpolation and differentiation
practices, upwind interpolation, linear interpolation and quadratic interpolation.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Numerical heat transfer and fluid flow / Suhas V. Patankar/Hemashava
Publishers Corporation &McGraw Hill.
2. Computational Fluid Flow and Heat Transfer/ Muralidaran/Narosa
Publications
REFERENCES:
1. Computational Fluid Dynamics: Basics with applications/John D. Anderson/
McGraw Hill.
2. Fundamentals of Computational Fluid Dynamics/Tapan K. Sengupta /
Universities Press.
3. Introduction to Theoretical and Computational Fluid Dynamics/C.
Pozrikidis/Oxford University Press/2nd Edition
R12
208
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 4 0 4
(MED1148) NON-DESTRUCTIVE TESTING AND EVALUATION
Course prerequisites: MOS, FEM
Course Objectives:
 Provide an opportunity to learn visual methods, electrical methods and
magnetic methods and nondestructive testing
 Understand the different methods involved in NDT
 To develop a fundamental understanding of ultrasonic testing of material and
acoustic emission
 Understand the principle involved in eddy current inspection
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Knowledge about application of NDT methods
 Ability to use ultrasonic testing and acoustic emission methods for checking
various types of defects.
 Ability to use radiographic methods
 Know the the principle involved in eddy current inspection
.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO NON DESTRUCTIVE TESTING
Scope and advantages of NDT, Comparison of NDT with DT, Overview of the Non
Destructive Testing Methods used, terminology, Comparison of advantages and
limitations of different NDT methods. Visual inspection and equipment used for visual
inspection.
UNIT II
COMMON NDT METHODS
Die Penetrate Test (liquid penetrate inspection), Principle, scope. Equipment and
techniques, Test stations, Advantage, types of penetrant and developers, Illustrative
examples
Magnetic Particle Inspection: Scope, principle, Ferro Magnetic and Non-ferro magnetic
materials, equipment and testing. Advantages, limitations Interpretation of results.
UNIT III
RADIOGRAPHIC METHODS
Radiant energy and radiography, practical applications , X-ray and Gamma – ray
equipment, effect of variables on radiographs, requirement of a good radiograph,
interpretation of radiograph, safety precautions, Xeroradiography – case study – X –ray
of human body
209
UNIT IV
ULTRASONIC TESTING (UT) AND ACOUSTIC EMISSION (AE)
Introduction, Principle of operation, Piezoelectricity. Ultrasonic probes, CRO
techniques, advantages, Limitation and applications. Applications in inspection of
castings, welding - bars, pipes, and rails. Case study – Ultrasonography of human
body.
UNIT V
EDDY CURRENT INSPECTION
Principle, Methods, Advantages, Scope and limitations, Types of Probes, Case studies.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Prakash Ravi, “Nondestructive Testing Techniques”, New Age International
Publishers, 1st edition, 2007
2. Paul E Mix, “Introduction to non-destructive testing: a training guide”, Wiley,
2nd edition New Jersey, 2005
3. ASM Handbook Vol. 11, 8th Edition – Non-destructive Testing and Evaluation
REFERENCES:
1. Baldev Raj, B. Venkataraman, D. J. Varde, Nerulikar, “Practical Magnetic
Particle Testing”, Narosa Publishing House, 2007 96
2. Charles, J. Hellier, “Handbook of non-destructive evaluation”, McGraw Hill,
New York 2001.
3. ASNT, American Society for Non Destructive Testing, Columbus, Ohio, NDT
Handbook.
4. Barry Hull and Vernon John: Non-Destructive Testing, Mac Milan Education
Ltd., Hound mills, Basingstoke, Hampshire, 1988
210
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 4 0 4
(MED1151) METAL CASTING TECHNOLOGY
Course prerequisites: Production Technology
Course Objectives:
 Understand various casting processes and their application
 Understand the use of patterns and their design
 Understand the design of runner, riser and gating systems and allowances to
be provided.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 To acquire a deeper knowledge about metal forming under different
conditions and in various processes.
 Analyze metal forming mechanics.
 Understand Workability of testing techniques.
 Apply Tribology in metal forming and other phenomena.
UNIT – I
PATTERN AND FOUNDRY SAND
Foundry as manufacturing process- Types of patterns- Pattern Materials- Pattern
Allowances- Pattern Layout, Pattern making- Various sands- Testing of foundry sand:
Strength Permeability, Moisture Content.
UNIT – II
MOULDING METHODS
Moulding methods: Green sand moulding- dry sand moulding- no bake moulding- shell
moulding- Investment casting- Permanent moulding- die casting and Centrifugal
casting. Modern moulding methods: Rheocasting- Thixocasting and Squeeze casting.
UNIT – III
GATING AND RISERING
Solidification- Gates- their functions, design of gating system- Risers- their functions-
design
UNIT – IV
MELTING FURNACES
Constructional details - Operation of crucible furnaces, Reverberatory furnaces-
Cupola, Rotary furnace – Core type and Coreless type Induction furnaces - Arc furnace
(direct and indirect arc furnaces).
UNIT – V
FETTLING AND INSPECTION
Removal of gates and risers, Grinding, Shot blasting and finishing, Inspection, Casting
defects, Remedies.
211
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Principles of Metal Casting by Heine R. W, Loper C.R & Rosenthal P.C;
Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill
2. Principles of Foundry Technology by Jain P. L; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill
REFERENCES:
1. Metal Casting Principles and Practice by Ramana Rao T.V; Publisher: New
Age
2. Foundry Technology by Beeley P. R; Publisher: Butterworth
3. Foundry Engineering by Srinivasan N. K., Publisher: Khanna
4. Casting Vol. 15 by ASM Metals Hand Book; Publisher: ASM International
212
R12
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 4 0 4
(MED1172) DESIGN OF AIRCRAFT STRUCTURES
Course prerequisites: Engineering Mechanics, Theory of Machines, Machine
Design and Manufacturing Technology
Course Objectives:
 Analyze the design process and design of Aircraft structures.
 Evaluate various materials and manufacturing processes applicable to Aircraft
industry.
 Apply the procedure for analysis of various aircraft structures.
 Analyze aircraft maintenance procedures and interpret criteria of certification of
Aircrafts.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
 Design and analyze Aircraft structure.
 Decide material and manufacturing process applicable to Aircraft industry.
 Apply aircraft certification and airworthiness regulation requirements and
integrate it in to aircraft design process.
 Prepare maintenance programs for Aircrafts.
UNIT-I
OVERVIEW OF THE AIRCRAFT DESIGN PROCESS
Introduction, Phases of Aircraft Design, Aircraft Conceptual Design Process,
Conceptual Stage, Preliminary Design, Detailed Design, Design Methodologies.
FUNDAMENTALS OF STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS
Review of Hooke’s Law, Principal stresses, Equilibrium and Compatibility, Determinate
Structures, St Venant’s Principle, Conservation of Energy, Stress Transformation,
Stress Strain Relations.
UNIT- II
INTRODUCTION TO AIRCRAFT STRUCTURES
Types of Structural members of Fuselage and wing section Ribs, Spars, Frames,
Stringers, Longeron, Splices, Sectional Properties of structural members and their
loads, Types of structural joints, Type of Loads on structural joints.
AIRCRAFT LOADS
Aerodynamic Loads, Inertial Loads, Loads due to engine, Actuator Loads, Maneuver
Loads, VN diagrams, Gust Loads, Ground Loads, Ground conditions, Miscellaneous
Loads.
213
UNIT-III
AIRCRAFT MATERIALS AND MANUFACTURING PROCESSES
Material selection criteria, Aluminum Alloys, Titanium Alloys, Steel Alloys, Magnesium
Alloys, copper Alloys, Nimonic Alloys, Non Metallic Materials, Composite Materials,
Use of Advanced materials Smart materials, Manufacturing of A/C structural members,
Overview of Types of manufacturing processes for Composites, Sheet metal
Fabrication ,Machining, Welding, Superplastic Forming And Diffusion Bonding.
UNIT-IV
STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS OF AIRCRAFT STRUCTURES
Theory of Plates- Analysis of plates for bending, stresses due to bending, Plate
deflection under different end conditions, Strain energy due to bending of circular,
rectangular plates, Plate buckling, Compression buckling, shear buckling, Buckling due
to in plane bending moments, Analysis of stiffened panels in buckling, Rectangular
plate buckling, Analysis of Stiffened panels in Post buckling, Post buckling under
shear, Sample Exercises.
Theory of Shells-Analysis of Shell Panels for Buckling, Compression loading, Shear
Loading / Shell Shear Factor, Circumferential Buckling Stress, Sample Exercises.
Theory of Beams-Symmetric Beams in Pure Bending, Deflection of beams,
Unsymmetrical Beams in Bending, Plastic Bending of beams, Shear Stresses due to
Bending in Thin Walled Beams, Bending of Open Section Beams, Bending of Closed
Section Beams, Shear Stresses due to Torsion in Thin Walled Beams. Sample
Exercises.
Theory of Torsion- Shafts of Non-Circular Sections, Torsion in Closed Section Beams,
Torsion in Open Section Beams, Multi Cell Sections, Sample Exercises.
UNIT-V
AIRWORTHINESS AND AIRCRAFT CERTIFICATION
Definition, Airworthiness Regulations, Regulatory Bodies, Type certification, General
Requirements, Requirements Related to Aircraft Design Covers, Performance and
Flight Requirements, Airframe Requirements, Landing Requirements, Fatigue and
Failsafe requirements, Emergency Provisions, Emergency Landing requirements
AIRCRAFT STRUCTURAL REPAIR
Types of Structural damage, Nonconformance, Rework, Repair, Allowable damage
Limit, Repairable Damage Limit, Overview of ADL Analysis, Types of Repair, Repair
Considerations and best practices
REFERENCES:
1. Flight without Formulae by A.C Kermode, Pearson Education,10th Edition
2. Mechanics of Flight by A.C Kermode, Pearson Education,5th Edition
3. Fundamentals of Flight, Shevell, Pearson Education, 2nd Edition
4. Introduction to Flight by Dave Anderson
5. Aircraft Systems: Mechanical, Electrical and Avionics Subsystems Integration
by Ian moir, Allan Seabridge
214
6. Aircraft Design - A Conceptual Approach by Daniel P.Raymer, AIAA
education series,6th Edition
7. Airframe Structural Design by Michael Niu, Conmilit Press, 1988,2nd Edition
8. Airframe Stress Analysis and Sizing by Michael Niu, Conmilit Press, 1999,3rd
Edition
9. The Elements of Aircraft Preliminary Design – Roger D. Schaufele, Aries
Publications, 2000
10. Aircraft Structural Maintenance by Dale Hurst, Avotek publishers, 2nd Edition,
2006
11. Aircraft Maintenance and Repair by Frank Delp, Michael J. Kroes & William
A. Watkins, Glencoe and McGraw-Hill,6th Edition, 1993
12. An Introduction to Aircraft Certification; A Guide to Understanding Jaa, Easa
and FAA by Filippo De Florio, Butterworth-Heinemann
215
