SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/R13/R13AE.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
Automobile Engineering
B.TECH. FOUR YEAR DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2013-2014)
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous Institute
Approved by AICTE & Affiliated to JNTUH
Accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
Bachupally, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500090, Telangana State, India
Phone: 040-23042758/59/60; FAX: 040-23042761
E-Mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
Approved by AICTE & Affiliated to JNTUH
Accredited by NBA and NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS FOR B.TECH. DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for Students admitted from the academic year 2013-2014)
1. Courses of study
The following courses of study are offered at present for specialization for the
B. Tech. Course:
Branch
Branch
Code
01 Civil Engineering.
02 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
03 Mechanical Engineering
04 Electronics and Communication Engineering
05 Computer Science and Engineering.
10 Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
12 Information Technology
24 Automobile Engineering
1.1 Eligibility Criteria for Admission
• The eligibility criteria for admission into engineering programmes
shall be as mentioned below:
• The candidate shall be an Indian National / NRI
• The candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st
December of the academic year for which the admissions are being
conducted.
• The Candidate should have passed the qualifying examination
(10+2) or equivalent as on the date of admission
1.1 .1 Seats in each programme in the Institution are classified into Category A and
Category B as per the G.Os.
2
R13
a) Category – A Seats
These seats will be filled through counseling as per the rank at the Common
Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by the State Government and as per
other admission criteria laid down in the G.Os.
1.1.2 Category - B Seats
These seats will be filled by the institute as per the G.Os Issued by State
Government from time to time.
1.1.3 Category: Lateral Entry
The candidate shall be admitted into the Third Semester, (2nd year, Ist
Semester) based on the rank secured by the candidate at Engineering
Common Entrance Test (ECET (FDH)) by the Convener, ECET.
2. Distribution and Weightage of Marks
i. The performance of a student in each Semester shall be evaluated subject –
wise with a maximum of 100 marks for theory and 100 marks for
practical subjects. In addition, an Industry oriented mini-project, Seminar,
Comprehensive viva-voce, and Project Work shall be evaluated for 100, 100,
100 and 200 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects the distribution shall be 30 marks for Mid Semester
Evaluation and 70 marks for the End Semester Examination.
For theory subjects, two mid examinations will be conducted in each
Semester as per the academic calendar. Each mid examination is evaluated
for 25 marks.
For the Mid-Examination the Distribution of Marks (25 Marks) as follows
Part-A: - 4 Marks (4X1 Marks) Compulsory
6 Marks (3X2 Marks) Compulsory
Part-B:- 15 Marks (3X5 Marks) 3 out of 4 Questions
Assignment Test/Assignment: - Two assignments are to be given to
students covering the syllabus of First Mid and Second Mid Examinations
respectively and are evaluated for 5 marks each.
The first assignment shall be submitted after first mid examinations and
second Assignment should be submitted after second mid examination. At
the end of the Semester, Internal Marks (Maximum 30) for the respective
subject is assigned as follows:
(a) 25 marks: 80% from the best performed mid examination and 20% from
the other mid examination.
(b) 5 marks: Average of the two assignments/assignment tests
iii. For practical subjects there shall be a continuous evaluation during the
Semester for 30 marks and 70 marks for end examination. Out of the 30
marks, day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be evaluated for 10
marks, and 10 marks for practical examination and 10 marks for laboratory
record.
3
R13
NOTE: A. Student who is absent for any assignment/Mid-term examination for
any reason what so ever shall be deemed to have secured ‘zero’ marks
in the test/examination and no makeup test/examination shall be
conducted.
B. If any student absent for mid exam due to Medical/Acute illness
same may be reported in advance to Head of the Department in writing
with a request to reconduct the mid-term examination. The committee
consisting of HOD/Dean-Academics/Dean-Examinations will take the
final decision on the conduct of mid-term examination.
iv For the subjects having design and / or drawing, (such as Engineering
Graphics, Engineering Drawing, Machine Drawing, Production Drawing
Practice, and Estimation etc.,) the distribution shall be 30 marks for internal
evaluation (15 marks for day-to-day work and 15 marks for Mid
examination (the average of the two examinations will be taken into account)
and 70 marks for end semester examination.
V There shall be an industry-oriented mini-Project, in collaboration with an
industry of their specialization, to be taken up during the summer vacation
after III year II Semester examination. The industry oriented mini project
shall be evaluated during the IV year I Semester. The industry oriented
mini project shall be submitted in report form and should be presented before
a committee, which shall be evaluated for 100 marks. The committee
consists of Head of the Department, the supervisor of mini project and a
senior faculty member of the department. There shall be no mid-term
assessment for industry oriented mini project. However, attending the
shadow engineering program is a pre – requisite for evaluating industry
– oriented mini project. Students should submit a report on learning
outcomes of the shadow engineering and Engineer in Mirror. Every student
should attend shadow engineering and Engineer in Mirror programme in an
industry for not more than a week days during second year and third year
respectively.
vi. There shall be a Seminar presentation in IV year II Semester. For the
Seminar, the student shall collect the information on a specialized topic other
than the project topic and prepare a technical report, showing his
understanding of the topic, and submit to the department, which shall be
evaluated by a Departmental committee consisting of the Head of the
department, Seminar supervisor and a senior faculty member. The seminar
will be evaluated for 100 marks based on the report and presentation
made.
vii. There shall be a Comprehensive Viva-Voce in IV year II Semester. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce will be conducted by a Committee consisting of
the Head of the Department and three Senior Faculty members of the
Department after submitting M.T.P record in complete. The
4
R13
Comprehensive Viva-Voce is aimed to assess the student’s understanding in
various subjects studied during the B.Tech. course of study. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce is evaluated for 100 marks by the Committee.
There will be no Midterm assessment for the Comprehensive viva-voce.
viii. The Project work shall be started by the student in the beginning of the IV
year I Semester. Out of a total of 200 marks for the project work, 60 marks
shall be for Midterm Evaluation and 140 marks for the Semester end
Examination. The viva-voce shall be conducted by a committee comprising
of an external examiner, Head of the Department and the project supervisor
and one senior faculty. The evaluation of project work shall be conducted at
the end of the IV year II Semester. The Midterm Evaluation shall be on
the basis of three Seminars conducted during the IV year II Semester for
30 marks by the committee consisting of Head of the Department,
project supervisor and senior faculty member of the Department and for
30 marks by the supervisor of the project.
3. Semester end Examination
(a) Theory Courses
Each course is evaluated for 70 marks. Examination is of 3 hours duration.
Question Paper Pattern is as follows
Part A:- 30 Marks Compulsory
5X1Marks (One question from each unit)
5X2Marks (One question from each unit)
5X3Marks (One question from each unit)
Part B:- 40 Marks (4 out of 6 questions) (At least one question from each
unit)
(b) Practical Courses
Each lab course is evaluated for 70 marks. The examination shall be
conducted by the laboratory teacher and another senior teacher concerned
with the subject of the same/other department/Industry. One of examiner will
be appointed by the Controller of Examinations in consultation with HOD as
and when required and is evaluated as per standard format.
(c ) Supplementary Examinations
Supplementary Examinations will be conducted for the current semester after
the declaration of the results of the regular examination of that semester.
4. Attendance Requirements
i. A student shall be eligible to appear for the Semester end examinations if he
/ she acquire a minimum of 75% of attendance in aggregate of all the
subjects for Semester.
ii. Condonation of shortage of attendance in aggregate up to 10% (65% and
above and below 75%) in a semester may be granted by Institute
Academic Committee.
5
R13
iii. A student will not be permitted to write the end examination and not promoted
to the next Semester unless he satisfies the attendance requirement of the
present Semester, as applicable. He may seek re-admission for that
Semester when offered next.
iv. Shortage of Attendance below 65% in aggregate shall in NO case be
condoned.
v. Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned / not paid the
stipulated fee in any Semester are not eligible to take their end semester
examination of that Semester.
5. Minimum Academic Requirements
The following academic requirements have to be satisfied in addition to the
attendance requirements mentioned in item No.4.
i. A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic
requirements and earned the credits allotted to each theory or practical
design or drawing subject or project, if he secures not less than 35% (25 out
of 70 marks) of marks in the end examination and a minimum of 40% of
marks in the sum total of the Midterm evaluation and end semester
examination taken together.
ii. A student shall be promoted from II to III year only if he fulfills the academic
requirement of getting 50 credits from the examinations held up to II Year
II Semester including Supplementary examinations of II B.Tech. II
Semester.
iii. A student shall be promoted from III year to IV year only if he fulfills the
academic requirement of getting a total of 75 credits from the
examinations held up to III Year II Semester including Supplementary
examinations of III B.Tech. II Semester.
Iv. A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 200
credits and earn at least 192 credits. Marks obtained in these credits shall be
considered for the calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA)
and percentage of marks.
v. The student should obtain two certificate courses during his/her course of
study
vi. Students who fail to earn at least 192 credits as indicated in the course
structure within eight academic years from the year of their admission shall
forfeit their seat in B.Tech.. Course and their admission stand Cancelled.
6. Course pattern
i. The entire course of study is of four academic years. All I, II, III and IV years
are of Semester pattern.
ii. A student eligible to appear for the end semester examination in a subject,
but absent or has failed in the end semester examination may reappear for
that subject at the supplementary examination whenever conducted.
6
R13
iii. When a student is detained due to shortage of attendance in any Semester,
he may be re-admitted into that Semester when it is offered next, with the
academic regulations of the batch into which he gets readmitted.
iv. When a student is detained due to lack of credits in any year, he may be
eligible for promotion to the next year after obtaining required number of
credits and fulfillment of the academic requirements.
Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
A student will be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. Degree if
he/she fulfils the following academic regulations:
i) Pursued a course of study for not less than four academic years and not
more than eight academic years.
ii) Registered for 200 credits and secured a minimum of 192 credits with
compulsory subjects as listed in Table.
Table: Compulsory Subjects
Serial Number Subject Particulars
1. All Practical Subjects
2. Industry oriented mini project
3. Comprehensive Viva-Voce
4. Seminar
5. Project work
iii) The student should obtain two certificate courses during his/her course of
study
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award
of the degree within eight academic years from the year of their
admission, shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech.. Course.
7. CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points:
The absolute grading method is followed, based on the total marks
obtained in internal and external examinations. Grades and grade points are
assigned as per the Table given below
B.Tech. Program: The Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the
total marks obtained in internal and external examinations. Grades and
Grade points are assigned as given below
7
R13
Marks Obtained Grade Description Grade Points(GP)
of Grade Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A+ Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 A Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 B Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 C Fair 6.00
>=40 and <49.99 D Pass 5.00
<40 F Remedial
Not Appeared the Exam(s) N Absent
The student is eligible for the award of the B.Tech. degree with the class as
mentioned in the Table.
CGPA CLASS
>= 7.5 First Class with Distinction
>= 6.5 and <7.5 First class
>= 5.5 and < 6.5 Second Class
>=5.0 and < 5.5 Pass class
Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
The performance of each student at the end of the each semester is indicated in terms
of SGPA. The SGPA is calculated as below:
Where ‘Ci’ = Number of Credits allotted to particular subject ‘I’
‘Gi’ = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded in that subject ‘i”
‘i”= 1,2,…..P represent the number of subjects for that particular semester
* SGPA is calculated and awarded for the candidates who pass all the courses in
a semester.
Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) for Entire Programme.
The CGPA is calculated as below:
8
R13
Assessment of the overall performance of a student is obtained by calculating
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA), which is weighted average of the grade
points obtained in all subjects during the course of study.
Where Ci= Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘I”
Gi = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded in that
subject ‘i” I= 1,2,….m represent the number of subjects of the entire program.
Grade lower than D in any subject is not considered for CGPA calculation. The CGPA
is awarded only when the student acquires the required number of credits prescribed
for the program.
Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
e) Award list indicating the marks awarded to the student.
8. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to College, or if any case of indiscipline is pending
against him, the result of the candidate may be withheld. The award or issue of
the Degree may also be withheld in such cases.
9. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or
any other academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and
when they become eligible. They have to take up Equivalent subjects, as substitute
subject in place of repetition of subjects as decided by the BoS chairman of the
respective department. He/She will be admitted under the regulation of the batch in
which he/she is readmitted.
10. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each Semester shall be 90 instruction days.
11. There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission process.
12. The decision of the Institute Academic Committee will be final in respect of
equivalent subjects for those students who are transferred from other
colleges. The transfer of students from other college or from this institute is
to approved by the Governing Council.
9
R13
13. General
i. Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include “she”,
“her”, “hers”.
ii. The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
iii. In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arises in the above rules and
regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
iv. The Chairmen Academic Council may change or amend any or all of the
academic regulations or syllabi at any time and the changes or amendments
made shall be applicable to all the students concerned with effect from the dates
notified by the College.
14. Academic Regulations for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2013-2014)
(i) Registered for 150 credits and secured a minimum of 142 credits with compulsory
subjects as listed in table.
Table: Compulsory Subjects
Serial Number Subject Particulars
1. All Practical Subjects
2. Industry oriented mini project
3. Comprehensive Viva-Voce
4. Seminar
5. Project work
(ii) A student who fails to earn a minimum of 142 credits as indicated in the course
structure within six academic years from the year of their admission shall forfeit
their seat in B.Tech. programme and their admission stands cancelled.
(iii) The same attendance regulations are adopted as that of B.Tech. Four year
degree course.
(iv) A student shall be promoted from Third year to Fourth year only on fulfilling the
academic requirements of securing 50 credits from the examinations held up to III
B.Tech. II Semester including Supplementary Examinations. All other regulations
as applicable to B.Tech. four year degree course will hold good for B.Tech.
(Lateral Entry Scheme).
10
R13
15. Malpractice Rules
Disciplinary Action for Malpractices/Improper Conduct in Examinations
Nature of Malpractices/Improper Punishment
conduct
If the candidate:
1. (a) Possesses or keeps accessible in Expulsion from the examination hall
examination hall, any paper, note and cancellation of the performance in
book, programmable calculators, Cell that subject only.
phones, pager, palm computers or
any other form of material concerned
with or related to the subject of the
examination (theory or practical) in
which he is appearing but has not
made use of (material shall include
any marks on the body of the
candidate which can be used as an
aid in the subject of the examination)
(b)Gives assistance or guidance or Expulsion from the examination hall
receives it from any other candidate and cancellation of the performance in
orally or by any other body language that subject only of all the candidates
methods or communicates through involved. In case of an outsider, he will
cell phones with any candidate or be handed over to the police and a
persons in or outside the exam hall in case is registered against him.
respect of any matter.
2. Has copied in the examination hall Expulsion from the examination hall
from any paper, book, programmable and cancellation of the performance in
calculators, palm computers or any that subject and all other subjects the
other form of material relevant to the candidate has already appeared
subject of the examination (theory or including practical examinations and
practical) in which the candidate is project work and shall not be permitted
appearing. to appear for the remaining
examinations of the subjects of that
Semester/year.
The Hall Ticket of the candidate is to
be cancelled.
3. Impersonates any other candidate in The candidate who has impersonated
connection with the examination. shall be expelled from examination hall.
The candidate is also debarred and
forfeits the seat. The performance of
the original candidate who has been
11
R13
impersonated, shall be cancelled in all
the subjects of the examination
(including practicals and project work)
already appeared and shall not be
allowed to appear for examinations of
the remaining subjects of that
semester/year. The candidate is also
debarred for two consecutive
semesters from class work and all end
semester examinations. The
continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the academic
regulations in connection with forfeiture
of seat. If the imposter is an outsider,
he will be handed over to the police and
a case is registered against him.
4. Smuggles the Answer book or Expulsion from the examination hall
additional sheet or takes out or and cancellation of performance in that
arranges to send out the question subject and all the other subjects the
paper during the examination or candidate has already appeared
answer book or additional sheet, including practical examinations and
during or after the examination. project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class work
and all end semester examinations.
The continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the academic
regulations in connection with forfeiture
of seat.
5. U s e s o b j e c t i o n a b l e , a b u s iv e o r C a n c e l l a tion of the performance in that
offensive language in the answer subject.
paper or in letters to the examiners or
writes to the examiner requesting him
to award pass marks.
6. Refuses to obey the orders of the In case of students of the college, they
Chief Superintendent/Assistant – shall be expelled from examination
Superintendent / any officer on duty halls and cancellation of their
or misbehaves or creates performance in that subject and all
disturbance of any kind in and other subjects the candidate(s) has
12
R13
around the examination hall or (have) already appeared and shall not
organizes a walk out or instigates be permitted to appear for the
others to walk out, or threatens the remaining examinations of the subjects
officer-in charge or any person on of that semester/year. The candidates
duty in or outside the examination are also debarred and forfeit their
hall of any injury to his person or to seats. In case of outsiders, they will be
any of his relations whether by handed over to the police and a police
words, either spoken or written or by case is registered against them.
signs or by visible representation,
assaults the officer-in-charge, or any
person on duty in or outside the
examination hall or any of his
relations, or indulges in any other act
of misconduct or mischief which
result in damage to or destruction of
property in the examination hall or
any part of the College campus or
engages in any other act which in the
opinion of the officer on duty
amounts to use of unfair means or
misconduct or has the tendency to
disrupt the orderly conduct of the
examination.
7. Leaves the exam hall taking away Expulsion from the examination hall
answer script or intentionally tears of and cancellation of performance in that
the script or any part thereof inside or subject and all the other subjects the
outside the examination hall. candidate has already appeared
including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class work
and all end semester examinations
including supplementary Examinations.
The continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the academic
regulations in connection with forfeiture
of seat.
8. Possess any lethal weapon or Expulsion from the examination hall
firearm in the examination hall. and cancellation of the performance in
that subject and all other subjects the
13
R13
candidate has already appeared
including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred and forfeits
the seat.
9. If student of the college, who is not a If the student belongs to the college,
candidate for the particular expulsion from the examination hall and
examination or any person not cancellation of the performance in that
connected with the college indulges subject and all other subjects the
in any malpractice or improper candidate has already appeared
conduct mentioned in clause 6 to 8. including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred and forfeits
the seat.
Person(s) who do not belong to
the College will be handed over to
police and, a police case will be
registered against them.
10. Comes in a drunken condition to the Expulsion from the examination hall
examination hall. and cancellation of the performance in
that subject and all other subjects the
candidate has already appeared
including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year.
11. Copying detected on the basis of Cancellation of the performance in that
internal evidence, such as, during subject and all other subjects the
valuation or during special scrutiny. candidate has appeared including
practical examinations and project work
of that semester/year.
12. If any malpractice is detected which
is not covered in the above clauses 1
to 11 shall be reported to the
academic council of the Institute for
further action to award suitable
punishment.
14
R13
Malpractices identified by squad or special invigilators
Punishments to the candidates as per the above guidelines.
Malpractice identified at Spot center during valuation
The following procedure is to be followed in the case of malpractice cases detected
during valuation, scrutiny etc. at spot center.
1) Malpractice is detected at the spot valuation. The case is to be referred to the
malpractice committee. Malpractice committee will meet and discuss/question
the candidate and based on the evidences, the committee will recommend
suitable action on the candidate.
2) A notice is to be served to the candidate(s) involved through the Principal to
his address and to the candidate(s) permanent address regarding the
malpractice and seek explanations.
3) The involvement of staff who are in charge of conducting examinations,
invigilators valuing examination papers and preparing / keeping records of
documents relating to the examinations in such acts (inclusive of providing in
correct or misleading information) that infringe upon the course of natural
justice to one and all concerned at the examinations shall be viewed
seriously and recommended for award of appropriate punishment after
thorough enquire.
4) Based on the explanation and recommendation of the committee action may
be initiated.
5) Malpractice committee:
i. Principal Chairman
ii. Controller of Examinations Convener
iii. Invigilator Member
iv. Chief Examiner of the subject/subject expert Member
v. Concerned Heads of the Department Member
15
R13
Program Educational Objectives (PEO’s):
• To prepare students for successful careers as automobile engineers in industry
that meets the need of Indian and global/multinational organizations.
• To provide a strong foundation in mathematical, scientific and engineering
fundamentals that enables students to visualize, analyze and solve automobile
engineering problems and also pursue higher education.
• To train students with a wide spectrum of scientific and engineering courses so
that students could comprehend, analyze, design and create products and
services that address real life problems which are cost effective and efficient.
• To inculcate in students a professional and ethical attitude, impart effective
communication skills and ability to work in teams with multidisciplinary approach
so as to resolve engineering issues of social relevance.
• To provide students with an academic environment that fosters excellence,
leadership, ethical codes and guidelines and develops yearning for lifelong
learning for a successful professional career.
Program outcomes:
• Engineering Knowledge: Graduates will demonstrate basic knowledge of
mathematics, sciences and automobile engineering and essential computational
techniques/procedures that aid in problem solving and be in a position to face
competitive examinations.
• Problem Analysis: Graduates will demonstrate ability to identify, critically
analyze, formulate and solve automobile engineering problems.
• Design and Development solutions: Graduates will demonstrate ability to
design a system, a component or a process in the domain of automobile
engineering, prepare a model, conduct experiments, analyze and interpret data.
• Conduct Investigations of Complex Problems: Graduates will demonstrate an
ability to visualize and work in engineering and science laboratories on
multidisciplinary tasks as teams, conduct investigations and solve complex
problems.
• Modern tool usage: Graduates will demonstrate skills to use modern engineering
tools, equipment, processes, state of the- art software packages on modeling and
analysis for solving problems.
• The engineer and society: Graduates will demonstrate understanding of impact
of engineering solutions on the society to ensure that no ill effects befall and be
aware of contemporary issues.
• Environment and sustainability: Graduates will demonstrate the understanding
of impact of engineering solutions on the environment to mitigate any ill effects
and ensure sustainability of solutions arrived.
16
R13
• Ethics: Graduates will demonstrate knowledge, understanding and application of
professional and ethical responsibilities and human values in all professional
transactions.
• Individual and Team Work: Graduates will demonstrate ability to work as an
individual as well as a team member on engineering problems and be able to
understand group dynamics and play his role appropriately in the group and
develop entrepreneurial skills.
• Communication: Graduates will demonstrate ability to communicate effectively in
both verbal and written form.
• Project Management and Finance: Graduates will demonstrate ability to
administer and regulate projects with emphases on time management, financial
management and personnel management.
• Life Long Learning: Graduates will demonstrate penchant for self education,
inclination for updating with developments, participate in professional societies,
interact with stalwarts in the field and continue life-long learning.
17
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
B.TECH. AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
13MTH001 Advanced Calculus 3 1 3
13PHY001 Engineering Physics 3 1 3
13CHE002 Chemistry of Engineering Materials 3 0 3
13CSE078 C and Data Structures 4 1 4
13MED001 Engineering Mechanics – I 4 1 4
13MED101 Engineering Graphics – I 0 6 3
13EPC101 Engineering Physics and Chemistry Lab 0 3 2
13CSE125 C and Data Structures Laboratory 0 3 2
Total 17 16 24
18
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
B.TECH. AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
13CED004 Environmental Studies 3 0 3
Linear Algebra and Ordinary Differential
13MTH002 3 1 3
Equations
13PHY002 Physics of Materials 3 0 3
13CHE001 Engineering Chemistry 3 0 3
13ENG001 English 3 0 3
13MED002 Engineering Mechanics – II 4 1 4
Engineering Graphics - II (using
13MED102 0 6 3
AutoCAD)
13MED103 IT and Engineering Workshop 0 3 2
English Language Communication Skills
13ENG101 0 3 2
Lab
Total 19 14 26
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
19
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
B.TECH. AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
PDE with applications and Complex
13MTH005 3 1 3
Analysis
13MED003 Mechanics of Solids 4 1 4
13MED004 Thermodynamics 4 1 4
13MED005 Metallurgy and Material Science 4 0 4
13MED006 Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulic Machines 4 1 4
13MED104 Metallurgy and Material Science Lab 0 3 2
13MED105 Mechanics of Solids Lab 0 3 2
Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulic Machines
13MED106 0 3 2
Lab
Total 19 13 25
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
Numerical Analysis and Linear
13MTH003 3 1 3
Programming
13AED001 Applied Thermodynamics 4 0 4
13AED002 Automotive Engines and Systems 4 0 4
13AED003 Theory of Machines 4 1 4
Basic Electrical and Electronics
13EEE079 3 1 3
Engineering
13MED107 Machine Drawing 0 6 3
13AED101 Automotive Engines Lab 0 3 2
Basic Electrical and Electronics
13EEE179 0 3 2
Engineering Lab
Total 18 15 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
20
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
B.TECH. AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
III YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
Electrical Vehicles and Hybrid Electrical
13EEE081 3 1 3
Vehicles
13AED004 Refrigeration and Auto Air Conditioning 3 1 3
13MED009 Production Technology 3 0 3
13AED005 Automobile Engineering Design I 4 1 4
13MED012 Heat and Mass Transfer 4 1 4
13AED008 Vehicle Dynamics 4 1 4
13AED102 Heat Transfer and RAC Lab 0 3 2
13MED109 Production Technology Lab 0 3 2
Total 21 11 25
21
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
B.TECH. AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
III YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
Business Economics and Financial
13CMS001 4 0 4
Accountancy
13AED006 Automobile Engineering Design II 4 1 4
13AED007 Machine Tools and Metrology 4 1 4
13EIE080 Instrumentation and Control Systems 4 0 4
Elective - I (Open)
13CED037 Disaster Management
13CSE016 Intellectual Property Rights
3 1 3
13ITD005 JAVA Programming
13AED010 Modern Automobile Technologies
13MED020 Non Conventional Energy Sources
13MED111 Machine Tools and Metrology Lab 0 3 2
Advanced English Language
13ENG102 0 3 2
Communication Skills Lab
Instrumentation and Control Systems
13EIE176 0 3 2
Lab
Total 19 12 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
22
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
B.TECH. AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
IV YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
Vehicle Body Engineering and
13AED012 3 1 3
Safety
Automotive Electrical and
13EEE080 3 1 3
Autotronics
13MED019 CAD/CAM 4 0 4
Elective – II
Automotive Chassis and
13AED009
Suspension
13AED011 Gas Dynamics 3 1 3
13MED021 Automation and Robotics
13MED022 Composite Materials
13MED025 Surface Modification Techniques
Elective – III
13AED013 Fuel Cell Technology
13MED018 Finite Element Method
13MED029 Fluid Power Systems 3 1 3
Introduction to Aircraft Industry and
13MED031
Aircraft Systems
Unconventional Machining
13MED033
Processes
13AED103 Automobile Engineering Lab 0 3 2
13MED112 CAD/CAM Lab 0 3 2
13MED114 Automation and Robotics Lab 0 3 2
13AED204 Comprehensive Viva Voce 0 0 2
13AED201 Industry Oriented Mini Project 0 4 2
Total 16 17 26
23
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
B.TECH. AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
IV YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
Industrial Engineering and
13AED014 4 1 4
Operations Research
Elective – IV
13AED015 Alternate Fuels for Automobiles
13MED034 Nano Science and Technology
3 1 3
13MED036 Design for Manufacturing
13MED037 Principles of Entrepreneurship
13CSE077 Interactive Computer Graphics
Elective – V
13AED016 Automotive Pollution and Control
13MED038 Product Life Cycle Management
Plant Layout and Material Handling 3 1 3
13MED039
Systems
13MED040 Computational Fluid Dynamics
13MED043 Design of Aircraft Structures
13AED203 Technical Seminar 0 3 2
13AED202 Project Work 0 18 12
Total 10 24 24
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
24
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year I sem, B.Tech. – Common to all branches L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13MTH001) ADVANCED CALCULUS
Course prerequisites: Differentiation, integration
Course Objectives:
• Understand Taylor’s theorem and its application to maxima and minima of
f(x,y)
• Understand the process of curve sketching
• Understand the multiple integrals and its applications
• Apply the integral theorems of vector calculus
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Solve problems involving the maxima and minima of f(x,y)
• Apply the curve tracing concepts to find arc length of curves, surface area,
and volume of solids of revolution
• Evaluate the multiple integrals using appropriate change of variables
• Verify the integral theorems
UNIT I
CALCULUS OF ONE AND SEVERAL REAL VARIABLES
Mean value theorems – Rolle’s Theorem, Lagrange’s Mean value theorem Cauchy’s
Mean value theorem, Taylor’s expansion and McLaurin’s expansion of functions
(without proofs).
Partial differentiation, partial derivatives of first and second order in terms of partial
derivaties, Jacobian, Euler’s theorem on homogeneous functions, change of variables,
Taylor’s theorem of two variables(without proof) and its application. Maxima and
Minima of two variables, Langrange’s method of undetermined multipliers.
UNIT II
CURVE TRACING AND RELATED APPLICATIONS
Curvature of curves in Cartesian, parametric and polar coordinates. Tracing of curves
in Cartesian, parametric and polar coordinates (like conics, astroid, hypocycloid,
Folium of Descartes, Cycloid, Circle, Cardiode, and Lemniscate). Applications -finding
area under the curves, Length of the curves, volume and surface area of solids of
revolution
UNIT III
MULTIPLE INTEGRALS
Introduction of Multiple integrals, evaluation of double and triple integrals, change of
order of integration change of variables , Cylindrical and Spherical polar coordinates.
25
R13
Application to evaluation of plane areas, volumes and surface areas of solids of
revolution.
UNIT IV
VECTOR DIFFERENTIAL CALCULUS
Scalar and Vector point functions, Gradient, Divergence, and Curl with geometrical &
physical interpretation, Directional derivatives, Properties.
UNIT V
VECTOR INTEGRAL CALCULUS
Line integrals and application to Work done and Circulation, Scalar potential function,
Surface integrals and Volume integrals, Gauss divergence theorem, Green’s theorem ,
Stokes’ theorem (theorems without proof).
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – by B. S. Grewal, Khanna publishers.
2. Calculus and Analytic Geometry by Thomas and Finney, 9th edition; Publisher:
Pearson Education.
REFERENCES:
1. Elementary Analysis: The Theory of Calculus by Kenneth Ross; Publisher:
Springer.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition; Publisher:
John Wiley.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter ‘O’ Neil, publisher: Cengage
Learning.
4. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa
Publications.
26
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year I sem, B.Tech. – Common to all branches L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13PHY001) ENGINEERING PHYSICS
Course Objectives:
• To supplement and enhance the basic concepts in Physics essentially
required in the study of materials as well as interaction of light with matter,
interaction of light with matter through physical phenomena like interference,
diffraction and polarization
• To know and understand some important applications of lasers and optical
fibers
• To learn the importance of wave and particle nature of light and to
understand the behavior of an electron in one dimensional potential box
• To understand the effect of temperature on Fermi Dirac Distribution Function
and also learn the behavior of an electron in a periodic potential, the new
concept of Effective mass of an electron and to know the classification of
materials into conductors, semiconductors and insulators
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course, the students will be able to
• Understand the Phenomenon of Interference, Diffraction & Polarization
• Learn the principle, working, construction and energy mechanism of various
lasers and their applications Explain the light signal propagation and
attenuation through optical fiber
• Understand the differences between particle and wave nature, energy states
in one dimensional potential box and also the Consequences of Heisenberg’s
Uncertainty principle
• Understand the one dimensional Schrodinger’s wave equation and the effect
of temperature on Fermi-Dirac Distribution, Kronig Penny model
UNIT I
INTERFERENCE
Superposition principle, resultant amplitude, coherence, methods to obtain coherent
sources, interference, Young’s double slit experiment, interference in thin films by
reflection, Newton’s rings Experiment.
DIFFRACTION-I
Distinguish between Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction, diffraction at single slit
(Qualitative and Quantitative (Phasors approach)).
27
R13
UNIT II
DIFFRACTION-II
Diffraction at double slit, circular aperture, and multiple slits (grating)( Qualitative
Approach), Resolution of spectral lines, Rayleigh criterion, and resolving power of
grating.
POLARIZATION
Polarization phenomenon, Brewster’s Law and Malus law, examples, types of
polarization, double refraction, Nicol prism, Quarter and Half wave plates.
UNIT III
LASERS
Characteristics of Lasers – Spontaneous and Stimulated Emission of radiation, meta
stable state, population inversion, lasing action, Einstein’s coefficients and relation
between them –– Ruby Laser – Helium-Neon Laser –Semiconductor Laser –
Applications of lasers.
FIBER OPTICS
Principle of optical fiber and properties – Acceptance angle and acceptance cone –
Numerical aperture –Types of fibers and refractive index profiles – Qualitative analysis
of attenuation in optical fibers –Application of optical fibers.
UNIT IV
ELEMENTS OF STATISTICAL MECHANICS
Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics (non-mathematical
treatment); Photon gas, Planck’s law of black body radiation; Deduction of Wien’s law
and Rayleigh-Jeans law from Plank’s law.
PRINCIPLES OF QUANTUM MECHANICS
Waves and particles – De Broglie hypothesis - Matter waves - Davisson and Germer
experiment –Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle - Schrodinger Wave Equation – Wave
function and its Physical Significance - Particle in one dimensional potential box(wave
functions, probability densities and energy states).
UNIT V
FREE ELECTRON FERMI GAS
Energy levels in one dimension, Effect of temperature on the Fermi-Dirac distribution,
Free electron gas in three dimensions, electrical conductivity & Ohm’s law, Electrical
Resistivity of Metals (Qualitative).
BAND THEORY OF SOLIDS
Electron in a periodic potential; Bloch Theorem; Kronig-Penney model (non-
mathematical treatment); Origin of energy band formation in solids; Classification of
materials into conductors, semiconductors & Insulators; and Concept of effective mass
of an electron.
28
R13
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Physics vol.2, by Halliday, Resnick and Krane; John Wiley & Sons.
2. Concepts of Modern physics by Arthur Beiser, McGraw Hill Inc.
3. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel : John Wiley & Sons.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Engineering Physics by R.K.Gaur and S.L.Gupta; Dhanpat Rai and Sons.
2. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd.
3. Optics by Ghatak and Thyagarajan, Tata Mc Graw.
4. Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press.
5. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers.
6. Introduction to Optical Communication by G. Keiser.
7. Quantum Mechanics by Gupta Kumar Sharma.
29
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech. CE, ME & AE – I sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13CHE002) CHEMISTRY OF ENGINEERING MATERIALS
Course Prerequisites: General chemistry
Course Objectives:
• A sustainable energy supply, is needed for promoting economic development
as well as protecting the environment
• Understanding the significance of various Engineering materials like cement
abrasives, adhesives and composites in structural enhancement of materials
• Exposure to refractories and ceramics in industries and most recently,
aerospace technology
• Familiarize lubricants as a basic and fundamental necessity for the
maintenance of any machines
Course outcomes:
• Acquire knowledge of the types of fuels, their sources and purification
techniques
• Understand the manufacturing process of cement, its properties and usage of
abrasives, adhesives and composites in various industrial processes
• Benefits of refractories as heat-resistant materials and applications of
ceramics in various fields
• Knowledge of lubricants in regard to their applications in various machines
UNIT I
ENERGY SOURCES
Fuels - classification (solid, liquid, gaseous), calorific value of fuel (HCV, LCV),
determination of calorific value by bomb calorimeter; Solid fuels – coal – analysis –
proximate and ultimate analysis and their significance; Liquid fuels – petroleum,
refining of petroleum, cracking, knocking, synthetic petrol – Bergius and Fischer-
Tropsch’s process. Biofuels- characteristics, biodiesel (preparation, properties and
applications); Gaseous fuels – natural gas, LPG, CNG (composition and uses),
Combustion – problems.
UNIT II
CEMENT
Types of cement; Chemical constituents and composition of Portland cement;
Manufacturing methods of Portland cement (wet and dry processes); Properties of
cement - Setting & Hardening of cement (reactions); Decay of cement; Cement
concrete - RCC.
30
R13
UNIT III
ENGINEERING MATERIALS
III a) Abrasives & Adhesives - Introduction, classification of abrasives, and their
applications. Criteria of a good adhesive, classification and their applications.
III b) Composites: Need for composites, classification and their applications.
UNIT IV
REFRACTORIES AND CERAMICS
Refractories: Definition; Classification with examples; Characteristics of a good
refractory; Causes for the failure of a refractory material; Properties of refractories -
refractoriness, RUL test, porosity.
Ceramics: Introduction; Classification, Glazing and Applications of glazed & non glazed
ceramics.
UNIT V
LUBRICANTS
Criteria of a good lubricant; Classification of lubricants-lubricating oils; Greases or
semisolid lubricants; Solid lubricants; Mechanism of lubrication-fluid film lubrication,
boundary lubrication, and extreme pressure lubrication; Biodegradable lubricants:
types of biodegradable lubricants, advantages and disadvantages of biodegradable
lubricants. Properties of lubricants - viscosity, cloud point, pour point, flash & fire point,
mechanical stability, oiliness, and carbon residue.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, and Jyotsna Cherukuri;
Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain & Monica Jain; Publisher: Dhanpatrai.
3. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara & Mukkanti; Publisher:
S.Chand & Co.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna.
2. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Balram Pani; Publisher: Galgotia
Publications Pvt.Ltd.
3. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Shashi Chawla Publisher: Dhanpat rai
&Co.
4. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi, Cengage
Learning Publications.
5. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, Sulochana
Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
31
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B. Tech. ME & AE - I Sem L T/PD C
4 1 4
(13CSE078) C AND DATA STRUCTURES
Course Objectives:
• Gain a working knowledge of C and data structure programming
• Learn how to write modular, efficient and readable C and data structure programs
• Utilize pointers to efficiently solve problems
• Explore searching and sorting concepts to solve problem
Course Outcomes:
• Understand the basic terminology used in computer programming
• Write, compile and debug programs in C language
• Analyze programs involving decision structures, loops and functions
• Design programs using searching and sorting techniques
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO COMPUTERS
Computer Systems, Computing Environments, Computer languages, creating and
running programs, Software Development Methods.
UNIT II
Algorithm / pseudo code, flowchart, program development steps, structure of C
program, identifiers, basic data types, Constants, variables, operators, expressions,
precedence and order of evaluation.
Input-output statements, if and switch statements, loops- while, do-while and for
statements, break, continue, goto and labels, example C programs.
UNIT III
FUNCTIONS
Basic concepts, parameter passing, storage classes, scope rules, user defined
functions, standard library functions, recursive functions, example C programs.
ARRAYS
Basic concepts, one-dimensional and two-dimensional arrays, Character array, string
handling functions, example C programs.
UNIT - IV
DERIVED TYPES- STRUCTURES
Basic concepts, nested structures, arrays of structures, program examples.
POINTERS
Basic concepts, pointers and functions, pointers and strings, pointers and arrays,
pointers and structures, self referential structures, example C programs.
32
R13
UNIT V
SEARCHING
Linear and binary search methods, sorting - Bubble sort, selection sort, Insertion sort.
INTRODUCTION TO DATA STRUCTURES
Dynamic memory allocation, Linked Lists, stacks, queues-implementation using arrays
and Linked Lists.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Computer science, A structured programming approach using C, B.A. Forouzan
and R.F. Gilberg, Third edition, Thomson.
2. The C Programming Language, B.W. Kernighan, Dennis M. Ritchie, PHI/Pearson
Education.
3. C Programming and Data structures, E. Balagurusamy, TMH.
REFERENCES:
1. Data Structures Using C - A.S. Tanenbaum, Y. Langsam, and M.J. Augenstein,
PHI/Pearson Education.
2. Programming in C - Stephen G. Kochan, III Edition, Pearson Eductaion.
3. Data Structures and Program Design in C, R.Kruse, C.L. Tondo, BP Leung,
Shashi M, Second Edition, Pearson Education.
33
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B. Tech ME & AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13MED001) ENGINEERING MECHANICS – I
Course Prerequisites: Physics, Mathematics
Course Objectives:
• Understand particle, body, rigid body, concept of force, analysis of forces acting
on a rigid body
• Understand moment and the principle of moments
• Understand friction and its implications
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Draw the free body diagram of a body acted upon by a system of forces
• Analyse the forces acting on a body and write the equations of equilibrium
• Write the moment equations of equilibrium
UNIT I
FORCES
Introduction to Engineering Mechanics – Basic Concepts: Rigid body, Force,
specifications of a force, Classification of a force system, Composition of force,
Resolution of forces, Rectangular components, parallelogram of forces, Triangle of
forces, Polygon law of forces, Equilibrium of Collinear forces, Equilibrium law,
Superposition and Transmissibility, Law of action and reaction, Free Body Diagram,
Active and reactive forces, Types of supports, Lami’s theorem, Resultant, Equilibrant,
Method of projections, Equations of equilibrium, Resultant of coplanar concurrent
forces, Equilibrium of coplanar concurrent forces.
UNIT II
MOMENTS
Moment, Moment of a force, Moment of a force about a point, Moment of a force about
an axis, Arm of the force, Varignon’s principle, Parallel forces, Resultant of parallel
forces, Couple, Moment of a couple about any point lying in the plane, Resolution of a
force into a force-couple and vice versa, Resultant of coplanar non-concurrent forces,
Equilibrium of coplanar non-concurrent forces.
UNIT III
FRICTION
Types of Friction, Limiting Friction, Coulomb Laws of Friction, Coefficient of friction
Static friction, Kinetic friction, Angle of friction, Cone of static friction, Equilibrium of
bodies on rough horizontal and inclined planes, Equilibrium of connected bodies on
rough horizontal and inclined planes, Ladder friction, wedge friction, screw friction.
34
R13
UNIT IV
CENTROID, CENTRE OF GRAVITY
Centroid, Centroids of simple figures (from basic principles) – Centroids of composite
figures and built-up sections, Centroids of Symmetric figures, Center of parallel forces,
Center of gravity ,Centre of gravity of simple bodies (from basic principles) , Centre of
gravity of composite bodies, Centre of gravity of Symmetric bodies, Pappus theorems.
UNIT V
MOMENT OF INERTIA
Introduction, Moment of inertia of plane areas, Radius of gyration, Polar moment of
inertia, Parallel axis theorem, Perpendicular axis theorem, Moments of inertia of simple
figures from basic principles and composite figures. Product of inertia, moment of
inertia about inclined axis, Principle moment of inertia. Mass moment of Inertia:
Introduction, Moments of inertia of simple bodies from basic principles and composite
bodies.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Mechanics by Timoshenko and Young, Tata Mc-Graw Hill Publishers.
2. Engineering Mechanics by RC Hibbeler, Pearson publishers.
3. Engineering Mechanics by S.S. Bhavikatti, New age International Publishers.
REFERENCES:
1. Singer’s Engineering Mechanics by K. Vijaya Kumar Reddy ,BS Publishers.
2. Engineering Mechanics (Statics) by Meriam and Kraige, John Wiley Publishers.
3. Engineering Mechanics by Tayal, Umesh Publishers.
35
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech. ME & AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 6 3
(13MED101) ENGINEERING GRAPHICS – I
Course Prerequisites: Geometrical construction
Course Objectives:
• Understand the usage of drawing instruments
• Understand the construction methods for drawing conic sections
• Identify the significance of curves in engineering practice like bridges, building,
arches etc.
• Understand first and third angle projections and methods
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Visualize the objects looking into projections
• Convert projections for isometric to orthographic and vice versa
• Work with Auto CAD for the above
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO Auto CAD
INTRODUCTION TO ENGINEERING DRAWING
Principles of engineering graphics and their significance; Drawing instruments and their
uses; Conventions in drawing-lettering; BIS Convention; Different types of scales;
Scale of chords.
UNIT II
CURVES USED IN ENGINEERING PRACTICE AND THEIR CONSTRUCTION
Ellipse; Parabola; Hyperbola and Rectangular hyperbola; Cycloid; Epicycloids;
Hypocycloid – Involutes.
UNIT III
ORTHOGRAPHIC PROJECTION
Points and straight lines inclined to both planes; True lengths and traces.
UNIT IV
PROJECTION OF PLANES
Projection of regular planes inclined to both planes; Auxiliary projections.
UNIT V
PROJECTION OF SOLIDS
Projection of regular solids-inclined to both planes; Auxiliary projections.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Elementary Engineering Drawing by N.D. Bhat; Charotar Publishing House.
2. Engineering Drawing by K.L. Narayana and P. Kannaiah; Scitech Publications.
3. Engineering Graphics for degree by K.C. John; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
36
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B. Tech ME & AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13EPC101) ENGINEERING PHYSICS AND CHEMISTRY LAB
Course Objectives:
• To practically learn interaction of light with matter through physical
phenomena like interference, diffraction and dispersion
• To expose to the principle of superposition and resonance
• To demonstrate the formation of standing waves and to understand the
mechanical wave behavior and to determine Rigidity Modulus of different
material s of wires
• To demonstrate basic discharge phenomenon in capacitors and to know the
characteristics of the circuit elements, like resistors, capacitors and inductors
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course, the students will be able to
• Understand clearly the interference principle in wave theory of light and able
to relate it to the formation of Newton Rings and Obtain a pure spectrum
when light passes through prism
• Understand the formation and propagation of mechanical waves
• Study simple oscillations of a load attached to a string and relate it to nature
of material of string
• Understand the physical significance of time constant and related uses
ENGINEERING PHYSICS LABORATORY
Any Eight Experiments from the following
1. Dispersive Power of the material of a Prism using Spectrometer
2. Diffraction Grating (both with Laser and non-laser source)
3. Single Slit with laser light
4. Newton’s Rings
5. Finding thickness of a thin wire or sheet by forming a wedge shaped film
6. Energy gap of a semiconductor material
7. Torsional Pendulum Expt: To determine the rigidity modulus of material of a
wire
8. Melde’s experiment
9. Sonometer Experiment
10. AC frequency by sonometer method
11. Numerical Aperture and Acceptance angle of an optical fiber cable
12. Bending losses in optical fiber
13. Stewart Gee’s experiment
14. Characteristics of LED/Laser Diode
37
R13
15. Photo cell/ Solar Cell
16. RC circuit- Time Constant
TEXT BOOK:
Essential Practical Lab Manual in Physics: by P.Raghavendra Rao.
ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
Course Prerequisites: General Maths, General chemistry.
Course Objectives:
• Estimation of hardness of water is essential for drinking water and in
industries to avoid boiler troubles.
• Knowledge of instrumentation in Colorimeter, Redwood viscometer,
Conductivity meter and pH meter.
• Knowledge of preparation of soap.
Course Outcomes:
• Understand the extent of hardness range present in a water sample and its
consequences if used for various industrial operations.
• Determination of strength of solutions ,pH of various solutions, lubricants
usage in machinery to prevent wear and tear.
• Understanding the composition of soap used for washings.
LIST OF EXPERMENTS
1. TITRIMETRY
Estimation of hardness of water by EDTA method
2. INSTRUMENTAL METHODS
(i) Conductometry
Conductometric titration of strong acid Vs Strong base
(ii) Colorimetry
Estimation of copper by colorimetric method
(iii) pH Metry
Titration of strong acid Vs Strong base by pH Metry
3. PHYSICAL PROPERTIES
Determination of viscosity of sample oil by Redwood viscometer
4. PREPARATIONS
Preparation of i) soap ii) Nano-particles
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by S.K.Bhasin and Sudha Rani,
Dhanpat Rai Publishing Company.
2. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna
Cherukuri, VGS Book Links, Vijayawada.
38
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B. Tech ME & AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13CSE125) C AND DATA STRUCTURES LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
• Gain a working knowledge of C data structure programming
• Learn how to write modular, efficient and readable C and data structure programs
• Utilize pointers to efficiently solve problems
• Utilize searching and sorting concepts to solve problem
Course Outcomes:
• Use different data types in a computer program
• Design programs involving decision structures, loops and functions, structures
and pointers
• Design programs using searching and sorting techniques
• Understand stacks, Queues implementation using linked lists
Week 1
1. Write a program that reads three different integers from the keyboard and prints –
sum, average, product, smallest, largest of the numbers.
2. Write a program that reads two integers and prints – difference, quotient and
remainder.
3. WAP that reads two integers and determines whether the first is a multiple of the
other.
Week 2
1. Write a C program to find the sum of individual digits of a positive integer.
2. Write a C program for Fibonacci sequence.
3. Write a C program to generate the first n terms of the sequence.
4. Write a C program to generate all the prime numbers between 1 and n, where n is
a value supplied by the user.
Week 3
1. Write a C program to calculate the following Sum:
Sum=1-x2/2! +x4/4!-x6/6!+x8/8!-x10/10!
2. Write a C program to find the roots of a quadratic equation.
Week 4
1. Write C programs that use both recursive and non-recursive functions
i) To find the factorial of a given integer
ii) To find the GCD (greatest common divisor) of two given integers
iii) To solve Towers of Hanoi problem
39
R13
Week 5
1. Write a C program, which takes two integer operands and one operator from the
user, performs the operation and then prints the result. (Consider the operators +,-
,*, /, % and use Switch Statement).
2. Write a program to print a given number [0-1000] in words. For example, 123 as
One Hundred and Twenty Three.
Week 6
1. WAP to check whether a given number is an Armstrong, Palindrome, Perfect,
Prime, or a Fibonacci Number.
2. Write a C program to find both the largest and smallest number in a list of
integers.
Week 7
1. Write a C program to generate Pascal’s triangle.
2. Write a C program to construct a pyramid of numbers.
Week 8
1. Write a C program to calculate
i) Minimum and maximum of an 1-d array
ii) Sorting an array
iii) Searching an array
Week 9
1. Write a C program that uses functions to perform the following:
i) Addition of Two Matrices
ii) Multiplication of Two Matrices.
iii) To find the determinant of a 3 by 3 matrix
Week 10
1. Write a C program that uses functions to perform the following operations using
Pointers:
i) To insert a sub-string in to a given main string from a given position.
ii) To delete n Characters from a given position in a given string.
iii) To reverse a given string.
Week 11
1. Write C Programs to implement Structures and Nested structures with suitable
Examples.
(Students have to practice with relevant examples taught in the class room)
Week 12
1. Write C Programs using Pointers and Pointer Arithmetic operations.
2. Write C Programs using Pointers to structures, Pointers to Arrays and Pointers to
strings.
(Students have to practice with relevant examples taught in the class room)
Week 13
1. Write C Programs to implement the following sorting algorithms
a. Bubble Sort b. Selection sort c. Insertion Sort
40
R13
Week 14
1. Write a C program to implement STACK and QUEUE operations using Arrays.
2. Write a C program to implement STACK and QUEUE operations using Linked
Lists.
Week 15
1. Write a C programs to implement the following searching techniques.
a. Linear Search b. Binary Search
Week 16 Lab Internal Examination
41
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B. Tech ME & AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13CED004) ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
Course Objectives:
Student will be able to
• Develop an understanding of the necessity of protection of environment
• Develop an understanding of Natural resources
• Develop an understanding of Biodiversity
• Develop an understanding of Global Environmental problems
• Develop an understanding of Environmental pollution
Course Outcomes:
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge on environment
• Acquire the knowledge of various Natural Resources
• Develop skills in understanding of various environmental problems
• Develop skills to protect the Environment
UNIT I
Environmental Studies
Introduction, Definition, scope and importance, Ecosystems: Introduction, types,
characteristic features, structure and functions of ecosystems. Bio geo chemical cycle,
Classification of Eco system.
UNIT II
Natural Resources :classification of Resources, Land resources, Land as resource,
Common property resources, Land degradation, Soil erosion and desertification,
Effects of modern agriculture, fertilizer –pesticide problems, Forest resources, Use and
over-exploitation.
Mining and dams – their effects on forest and tribal people, Water resources, Use and
over- utilization of surface and groundwater, Floods, droughts, Water logging and
salinity, Dams –benefits and costs, Conflicts over Water, Energy resources.
UNIT III
Bio-diversity and its conservation, Value of bio-diversity -consumptive and productive
use, social, ethical, aesthetic and option values, Bio-geographical classification of India
– India as a mega diversity habitat, Threats to bio-diversity –Hot-spots, habitat loss,
poaching of wild life, loss of species, seeds, etc. Conservation of bio-diversity – Insitu
and Ex-situ conservation.
42
R13
UNIT IV
Environmental Pollution –Local and Global Issues, Nature of thermal pollution and
nuclear hazards, Global warming, Acid rain, Ozone depletion., Environmental case
studies.
UNIT V
Environmental Problems in India, Drinking water, sanitation and public health, Effects
of the activities on the quality of environment, Water scarcity and groundwater
depletion, Controversies on major dams – resettlement and rehabilitation of people:
problems and concerns, Rain water harvesting, cloud seeding and watershed
management. Economy and Environment, The economy and environment interaction,
Economics of development, preservation and conservation, Sustainability: theory and
practices, Limits to growth, Equitable use of resources for sustainable life styles,
Environmental Impact Assessment.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Environmental Science - Y.Anjaneyulu, B S Publications.
2. Environmental studies - Deeksha dave, Cengage learning India Pvt. Ltd.
3. Environmental sciences and Engineering - P. Venugopal Rao, PHI learning Pvt.
Ltd.
4. Environmental Science and Technology by M. Anji Reddy, B S Publications.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Clark, R.S., Marine Pollution, Clanderson Press, Oxford, 2002.
2. Cunningham, W.P., et al., Environmental Encyclopedia, Jaico Publishing House,
Mumbai, 2003.
43
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech.– II sem, Common to all branches L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13MTH002) LINEAR ALGEBRA AND ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
Course prerequisites: Matrices, Differentiation and Integration
Course Objectives:
• Understand the Echolen form and Normal form of a matrix and its
applications in solving linear system of equations
• Understand the methods of solving first order differential equations and learn
about its applications to L-R and R-C circuits
• Apply the convolution theorem to evaluate Laplace Transform of the functions
• Apply Z-Transforms in solving the difference equations
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Find the rank using Echolen form and Normal form
• Solve the problems in first order and second order differential equations
• Learn Laplace Transform as a tool
• Evaluate the Z-Transform of the given function
UNIT I
LINEAR ALGEBRA – MATRICES
Rank of matrix, Hermitian and skew – Hermitian matrices, Inverse of matrix by
elementary operations. Consistency of linear simultaneous equations, Eigen values
and eigen vectors, Diagonalisation of a matrix (including the case of repeated eigen
values). Caley – Hamilton theorem (without proof), Quadratic forms - reduction of
quadratic form to canonical form by linear transformation.
UNIT II
ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS AND THEIR APPLICATIONS
Differential equations of first order and first degree - Exact differential equation , Linear
and Bernoulli differential equation , Applications of differential equations of first order
and first degree - Newton’s law of cooling, Law of natural growth and decay,
Orthogonal trajectories, and basic circuits(L-R Circuits, R-C Circuits).
UNIT III
DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS OF HIGHER ORDER AND THEIR APPLICATIONS
Differential equations of higher order - homogeneous and non-homogenous type,
differential equations of second order and higher order with constant coefficients with
ax ax
right hand side term of the type e sin (ax), cos (ax), polynomials in x, e , V(x), x
V(x) and method of variation of parameters; Euler-Cauchy’s 2nd order differential
equations, applications to spring mass system ,Simple harmonic motion and L-C-R
Circuits.
44
R13
UNIT IV
LAPLACE TRANSFORMS
Existence condition, Laplace transform of standard functions, Properties, Inverse
Laplace transform of functions using partial fractions, Convolution and Convolution
theorem(statement only). Solving linear differential equations using Laplace transform.
Unit step function, Impulse function and Periodic function and their transforms.
UNIT V
Z-TRANSFORMS
Z-transform; Inverse z-transform; Properties, initial, and final value theorems;
Convolution theorem(theorems without proofs); Difference equations; Solutions of
difference equations using z-transform.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – B. S. Grewal,Khanna publishers.
2. A First Course in Differential Equations by Dennis G. Zill; Publisher: Brooks Cole
publiers.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa
Publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition;
Publisher: John Wiley.
2. Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher: Cengage
Learning.
45
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B. Tech ME & AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13PHY002) PHYSICS OF MATERIALS
Course Objectives:
• To learn the structure of solids, crystal systems, packing and arrangement of
particles in crystals, simple planes and directions in solids, defects in crystals
• To learn the properties of magnetic materials and classification, Dielectric
materials
• To learn the concept and applications of superconductors
• To introduce new concepts like surface phenomena and nano science
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course, the students will be able to:
• Identify different crystal types various planes and directions in crystals and
estimate one dimentional crystal defects
• Learn the magnetic properties of materials classify the magnetic materials
into Dia, Para and ferro
• Learn the characteristics, properties and applications of superconductors and
magnetic materials
• Realize surface phenomena are different from bulk; learn methods to
estimate work functions and Compare optical and electron microscopes and
learn principles of SEM&TEM
UNIT I
CRYSTAL STRUCTURES
Space lattice – Unit cell – Lattice parameters – Crystal systems – Bravais lattice-
Atomic radius – Co-ordination number - Structures and Packing fractions of Simple
Cubic – Body Centered Cubic – Face Centered Cubic – Hexagonally closed packed &
diamond Cubic Crystals.
BONDING IN SOLIDS
Force and energy between two approaching atoms, primary and secondary bonds,
binding energy and cohesive energy, Madelung constant, cohesive energy and
Madelung constant for NaCl crystal
UNIT II
DIRECTIONS, PLANES AND X-RD
Miller Indices for Crystal planes and directions – Inter planar spacing of orthogonal
crystal systems –Diffraction of X-rays by crystal planes and Bragg’s law– Laue method
– Powder method.
46
R13
DEFECTS IN SOLIDS
Imperfections in crystals – Point defects (Vacancies, Interstitial and Impurities)
Schottky and Frenkel defects – (with mathematical treatment)- Line imperfections –
Edge and Screw dislocation – Burger vector – Surface defects and volume defects
(Qualitative Treatment).
UNIT III
MAGNETIC PROPERTIES OF MATERIALS
Permeability, Field intensity, magnetic field induction, Magnetization and Magnetic
susceptibility – Origin of magnetic moment, Bohr magneton – Classification of
magnetic materials (Dia, Para and Ferro)- Domain theory of ferromagnetism,
Hysteresis curve – Soft and Hard magnetic materials – Ferrites and their applications.
UNIT IV
DIELECTRIC PROPERTIES
Electric dipole, Dipole moment, Dielectric constant, Electronic, Ionic and Orientation
Polarization – Calculation of Polarizibilities – Internal fields – Claussius – Mossotti
equation –Piezo and Ferro electricity
SUPERCONDUCTORS
Experimental survey and superconductivity phenomenon, – Meissner effect – Critical
fields and Persistent currents, Type I and Type II superconductors - London equations-
flux quantization, Applications of Superconductors.
UNIT V
SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY OF NANOMATERIALS
Work function, Thermionic emission, Contact Potential, Electron Microscope, Scanning
Tunneling Microscope. Origin of nano science – (Basic principles of Nanoscience &
Technology) surface to volume ratio, quantum confinement – Fabrication of nano
materials ,Bottom up fabrication: sol-gel & combustion methods – Top down
fabrication: CVD& PVD methods– Applications of nanotechnology.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel (Publishers: John Wiley &
Sons).
2. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd.
REFERENCES
1. Solid State Physics by A.J.Dekker; Macmillan Publishers India Ltd.
2. Engineering Physics by G. Sahashra Buddhe; University Press.
3. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers.
4. Engineering Physics by M.R.Srinivasan, New Age Publishers.
5. Solid State Physics by M.A. Wahab.
47
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech. CE, ME, AE, ECE, EEE, EIE – II sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13CHE001) ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
Course Prerequisites: General Chemistry
Course Objectives:
• Understand electrochemistry which deals with the utilization of electrical
energy of an external source for bringing about a physical or chemical
change
• Knowledge of “Corrosion engineering education” and Usage of polymers in
modern world as an integral part of every human’s life
• Knowledge of purification techniques and various applications of soft water in
industries
• Usage of nanomaterials as emerging scientific components with amazing
potential applications in various fields
Course Outcomes:
• Visualize the chemical applications of electricity
• Prevention of corrosion of metals and applications of polymers from domestic
articles to sophisticated scientific and medical instruments
• Benefits of treated water as source in steam generation and other fields like
production of steel, paper, textiles, atomic energy etc.
• The applicability and greater efficiency of using a material at nanoscale in
different engineering fields
UNIT I
ELECTROCHEMICAL CELLS AND BATTERIES
Conductance-factors effecting conductance, conductometric titrations; cells: types of
cells, cell representation, electrode potential; Standard electrode potential;
Electrochemical series; Nernst equation; Reference electrodes – hydrogen, calomel
electrode; Ion selective electrodes (glass electrode & flouride electrode); Numerical
problems.
BATTERIES
Primary and secondary cells (lead-acid cell; Ni-Cd cell; lithium cells); Applications of
batteries; Fuel cells – methanol – oxygen fuel cells, advantages of fuel cells; Solar cells
- principle, and applications.
UNIT II
CORROSION AND ITS CONTROL
Introduction; Causes and effects of corrosion; Different types of corrosion; Theories of
corrosion – chemical, electrochemical corrosion (reactions); Factors affecting corrosion
– nature of metal (galvanic series; over voltage; purity of metal; nature of oxide film;
48
R13
nature of corrosion product), and nature of environment (effect of temperature; effect
of pH; humidity; effect of oxidant).Corrosion control methods – cathodic protection,
sacrificial anode, and impressed current cathode; Surface coatings – methods of
application on metals (hot dipping; galvanizing; tinning; cladding; electroplating), and
organic surface coatings (paints - constituents and functions).
UNIT III
POLYMERS
Introduction; Types of polymerization; Plastics - thermoplastic resins, and thermoset
resins; Compounding & fabrication of plastics; Preparation, properties, and engineering
applications of polyethylene, PVC, PS, Teflon, bakelite, nylon.
RUBBER
Natural rubber- processing, vulcanization; Elastomers (Buna-s; Butyl rubber; Thiokol
rubbers); Fiber reinforced plastics (FRP) and their applications.
UNIT IV
WATER
Introduction; Hardness - causes, expression of hardness, units, types of hardness,
estimation of temporary & permanent hardness of water, and numerical problems;
Boiler troubles – scale & sludge formation, caustic embrittlement, corrosion, priming &
foaming; Softening of water (Internal & external treatment - lime soda, zeolite, ion
exchange process, and numerical problems); Reverse osmosis and Electro dialysis
(desalination processes).
UNIT V
NANOMATERIALS
Introduction; Preparation and applications of nonmaterial’s with special reference to
carbon nanotubes.
INSULATORS
Classification of insulators; characteristics of thermal & electrical insulators and their
applications; Superconductors - YBa Cu O ; Applications of superconductors.
2 3 7-x
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna Cherukuri;
Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain & Monica Jain, Publisher: Dhanpatrai
Publishing Company.
REFERENCES:
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara & Mukkanti; Publisher:
S.Chand & Co.
2. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna.
3. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, Sulochana
Nagarajan; Vikas Publishers.
4. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi, Cengage
Learning Publications.
49
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech. II Sem (Common to all Branches) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13ENG001) ENGLISH
INTRODUCTION
This is the age of information and communication technologies. Engineers and
technical professionals need to convey technical information in English for various
purposes.
Besides learning general English as an international language, engineering students
need to be equipped with adequate writing ability so that they can communicate
technical information clearly on at least a basic level. A good English writing proficiency
can be a contributing factor to professional recognition and career prospects. This
course teaches those writing strategies that scientists, engineers, and others will need
in order to write successfully on the job. It initiates the students into Technical Writing.
The purposes of technical writing are to inform and persuade. This program aims to
train students in writing clear, concise and effective English.
This Syllabus is therefore, a Pragmatic English Writing Program for engineering
students with intermediate proficiency. The program covers a syllabus outline and
instructional approaches on basic writing skills with particular reference to technical
writing.
Course Objectives:
• To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for advanced writing and
speaking
• To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns and
grammatical constructions required in technical writing as well as oral
presentation
• To acquaint the students with the writing process in preparation for academic
and workplace writing
Course Outcomes:
• Comprehend technical writing produced in the engineering profession
• Understand the writing process and create logical paragraphs
• Use infrastructural patterns in writing and speaking
METHODOLOGY
A Task-based, process oriented methodology will be used by the teachers to give a
practical orientation to the teaching of language. An inductive approach will be used to
demonstrate the use of language in context. This should enable the students to
internalize the language structures and vocabulary used in context. Students will be
exposed to numerous examples and ample practice will be given in the contextual use
of language structures.
50
R13
UNIT I
REVIEW OF GRAMMAR
i) Common Errors v) Use of Articles and Prepositions
ii) Subject-Verb Agreement vi) Conjunctions
iii) Adverbs vii) pronoun reference
iv) Transitional elements
UNIT II
PROSE 1
1. Heaven’s Gate by Pico Iyer
2. The Connoisseur by Nergis Dalal
UNIT III
READING AND WRITING SKILLS
i) Reading Comprehension -- Skimming & scanning
ii) Reading Comprehension -- Intensive reading
iii) Reading Comprehension -- Critical Analysis
iv) Paragraph Writing
v) Letter Writing
vi) Memo Writing
UNIT IV
PROSE 2
1. The Cuddalore Experience by Anu George
2. The Odds Against Us by Satyajit Ray
UNIT V
ADVANCED WRITING SKILLS
1. Comparison and Contrast Pattern
2. Cause and Effect Pattern
3. Classification
4. Analogy
5. Problem-Solution Pattern
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Enjoying Every day English by A. Ramakrishna Rao.
2. Effective Technical Communication by Ashraf Rizvi.
3. Technical Writing Process and Product by Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson.
3rd edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999.
REFERENCES:
1. M. Raman and S. Sharma, 2004; Technical Communication : Principles and
Practices, OUP, (Indian Edition).
2. Blanton, L.L. 1993; Composition Practice, Book 4 ,Second Edition, Heinle &
Heinle Publishers, pp. 54.
3. Georges, T.M. 1996; A course in Analytical Writing for Science and Technology,
http://www.mspiggy.etl.noaa.gov/write.
51
R13
4. Neufeld, J.K. 1987; A Handbook for Technical Communication, Prentice-Hall, Inc.
pp.20,65-68.
5. Yalden, J. 1987; Principles of Course Design for Language Teaching, Cambridge
University Press.
6. David F. Beer and David McMurrey, Guide to Writing as an Engineer, 2nd ed.,
Wiley, 2004, ISBN: 0471430749.
7. Greaney, G.L. 1997; Less is More: Summary Writing and Sentence Structure in
the Advanced ESL Classroom, The Internet TESL Journal, Vol.III, No.9
http://iteslj.org/Techniques/Greaney-Writing.html.
52
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B. Tech ME & AE II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13MED002) ENGINEERING MECHANICS – II
Course Prerequisite: Physics, Mathematics, Engineering Mechanics – I
Course Objectives:
• Understand trusses and their analysis using various methods
• Understanding principle of virtual work and its application.
• Understanding kinematics and kinetics parts of machine.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Draw the Free Body Diagram of a truss acted upon by a system of forces and
analyze the truss
• Identify elements of virtual work and analyze them
• Identify various links of machines and synthesize kinematics and kinetic parts
of design components
UNIT I
TRUSSES
Introduction –Types of Trusses, Assumptions made in the analysis of Trusses, Method
of Joints, Method of Sections, Force table, Cantilever Trusses, Trusses with one end
hinged and the other freely supported on rollers carrying horizontal or inclined loads.
Frames: Introduction, Types of Frames, Method of members.
UNIT II
VIRTUAL WORK
Equilibrium of ideal systems, Virtual displacement, Concept of virtual work, Principle of
virtual work, Application of principle of virtual work to beams, ladders, framed
structures.
UNIT III
KINEMATICS
Kinematics of particles - Path, Tortuous path, Plane path, Rectilinear motion,
Displacement, Displacement time diagram, Velocity, Instantaneous velocity, Average
velocity, Velocity time diagram, Acceleration, Variable acceleration, Average
acceleration, Curvilinear motions, normal and tangential accelerations, Projectiles,
Kinematics of rigid bodies rotation about a fixed axis
UNIT IV
KINETICS
Kinetics of particles, Newton’s Second Law, differential equations of rectilinear and
curvilinear motions, motion of a particle acted upon by constant force, Dynamic
53
R13
equilibrium, Inertia force, D’Alembert’s Principle applied for rectilinear and curvilinear
motion, Kinetics of rigid bodies in rotation under action of a constant moment.
UNIT V
WORK–ENERGY, IMPULSE–MOMENTUM METHOD
Work of a force, Principle of Work and Energy, Application of principle of Work-Energy
for rectilinear motion, Impulse-Momentum Principle, Application of Impulse-Momentum
principle to connected bodies. Moment of momentum, Application of principle of Work-
Energy for curvilinear motion
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Mechanics by Timoshenko and Young, Tata Mc-Graw Hill Publishers.
2. Engineering Mechanics by S.S. Bhavikatti, New age International Publishers.
3. Engineering Mechanics by R.K. Bansal, Laxmi Publishers.
REFERENCES:
1. Singer’s Engineering Mechanics by K. Vijaya Kumar Reddy, BS Publishers.
2. Engineering Mechanics (Statics) by Meriam and Kraige, John Wiley Publishers.
3. Engineering Mechanics by Tayal, Umesh Publishers.
54
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech. ME & AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 6 3
(13MED102) ENGINEERING GRAPHICS – II (USING AUTOCAD)
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Graphics -I
Course Objectives:
• Understand the concept of section of solids, development of surfaces,
intersection of surfaces
• Learn the various types of projections- orthographic and pictorial
• Understand the importance and the principles of perspective projections
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Construct the true shape of section and also obtain the development of
surfaces of various solids using Auto CAD
• Obtain the intersection of surfaces of solids like prism, cyclinder and cone,
using AutoCAD
• Visualize the objects and convert them in different projections – orthographic,
isometric and pictorialusing AutoCAD
UNIT I
SECTIONS AND SECTIONAL VIEWS
Sections of right regular solids-prisms, pyramids, cylinders and cones – auxiliary views
DEVELOPMENT OF SURFACES
Development of surfaces of right regular solids prisms, pyramids, cylinders and cones.
UNIT II
INTERSECTION OF SOLIDS
Intersection of prism Vs prism, cylinder vs prism, cylinder vs cylinder and cylinder vs
cone
UNIT III
ISOMETRIC PROJECTIONS
Principles of isometric projections, Isometric scale, isometric views, conventions,
isometric views of lines, planes, simple and compound solids, isometric views of
objects having spherical parts.
UNIT IV
TRANSFORMATION OF PROJECTIONS
Conversion of isometric views to orthographic views - conventions for simple objects.
Construction of orthographic projections for given isometric projections.
55
R13
UNIT V
PERSPECTIVE PROJECTIONS
Perspective view of points, lines, plane figures and simple solids, vanishing point
method and visual ray method.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Elementary Engineering Drawing by N.D.Bhat; Publisher: Charotar Publishing
House.
2. Engineering Drawing by K.L. Narayana and P. Kannaiah; Publisher: Scitech
Publications.
3. Engineering Graphics for degree by K.C. John; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
56
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech. ME& AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED103) IT AND ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
Course Objectives:
• To study/demonstrate the concepts of computer w.r.t. its hardware, operating
system, assembling and dissembling
• To conduct the experiments related to production engineering technology.
• To demonstrate the usage of power tools, CNC lathe and machine shop for
different exercises
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Identify, assemble, dissemble, install and write commands for a given
configuration of a computer
• To develop the own components using the techniques of carpentry, tin
smithy, forging, etc. listed in trades for exercises
• To work out the given models in machine shop and CNC lathe
IT WORKSHOP
1. Computer Hardware: Identification of Peripherals
2. Assembling and disassembling of a PC
3. Simple diagnostic exercises – Related to hardware
4. Installation of Windows Operating System
5. Installation of Linux Operating System
6. Linux Basic Commands
7. Simple diagnostic exercises –Related to Operating System
TEXTBOOKS:
1. IT Essentials PC Hardware and Software Companion Guide Third Edition by
Davis Anfinson and Ken Quamme – CISCO Press, Pearson Education.
2. PC Hardware and A+ Handbook – Kate J. Chase PHI (Microsoft).
ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
TRADES FOR EXCERCISES
At least two exercises from each trade
1. Carpentry
2. Tin-Smithy
3. Fitting
4. Welding
5. Electrical Wiring
57
R13
TRADES FOR DEMONSTRATION and EXPOSURE:
1. Power tools in construction, wood working, electrical engineering and mechanical
engineering
2. Machine shop
3. CNC Lathe
TEXT BOOK:
1. Workshop Manual by P.Kannaiah and K.L.Narayana; Publisher: Scitech.
58
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech. ( Common to all branches) II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13ENG101) ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LAB
The English language Communication Skills Lab aims to provide practice in all
the four skills of LSRW, with a special emphasis on listening and speaking skills.
Course objectives:
• Provide ample practice in LSRW skills
• Provide practice in grammatical construction, structural patterns, word usage
and improve comprehension abilities in the students
• Train students to use neutral pronunciation through phonetic sounds,
symbols, stress and intonation
• Enable students to transfer information from verbal to graphic representation
and vice versa
• Train students to use effective language for oral presentations, public
speaking, role play and situational dialogue
Course Outcomes:
• Comprehend spoken and written discourse
• Speak fluently with neutral pronunciation and exhibit interpersonal skills
• Write accurately, coherently and lucidly making appropriate use of words
depending on context and present data clearly
• Introduce one self to people and be able to speak extempore
Syllabus for Lab Sessions
Unit I
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar : Nouns and Pronouns; Articles; The Present Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 1
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: Introduction of Self and others
Unit II
Multimedia Lab:
1. Grammar: Concord; Adjectives; The Past Tense
2. Vocabulary: Lesson 2
3. Listening Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Seeking and Giving Information, Giving and Taking
Instructions.
Unit III
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar --- Adverbs, Conjunctions, Prepositions; The Future Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 3
3. Telephoning Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Role Play/ Situational Dialogues
59
R13
Unit IV
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar - Active and Passive Voice; Language Analysis
2. Vocabulary: Lesson 4
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: i) JAM/ Short Talk ii) Information Transfer
a) Interpretation of Graph
Unit V
Multimedia Lab:
1. Introduction to Technical Writing
A. Definition of a Technical Term
B. Description of a Mechanism
C. Description of a Technical Process
2. Vocabulary: Lesson 5
Communication Skills Lab: Presentation Skills: Oral Presentation
Multimedia Lab Requirements
The English Language Lab shall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Lab for 60 students with 60 systems, one
master console, LAN facility and English language software for self- study by
learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Lab with movable chairs and audio-visual aids
with a P.A System, a T. V., a digital stereo –audio & video system and
camcorder etc.
iii) System Requirement (Hardware component):
Computer network with Lan with minimum 60 multimedia systems with the
following specifications:
i) P – IV Processor
ii) Speed – 2.8 GHZ
iii) RAM – 512 MB Minimum
iv) Hard Disk – 80 GB
v) Headphones of High quality
iv) Suggested Software:
The software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above should be
procured and used.
List of Software:
(cid:1) Clarity Pronunciation Power – part II
(cid:1) Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
(cid:1) DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill
Practice.
(cid:1) Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
(cid:1) TOEFL & GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO & BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE by
CLIFFS)
60
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year I Sem B.Tech. (EEE, ME&AE) L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13MTH005) PDE WITH APPLICATIONS AND COMPLEX ANALYSIS
Course prerequisites: Differentiation, integration
Course Objectives:
• Derive the Fourier coefficients for the sine and cosine series
• Apply Separation of Variables to solve elementary examples of linear
second order Partial Differential Equations (heat, Laplace and wave
equations)
• Understand the properties of Fourier transforms
• Apply Cauchy theorem, Cauchy’s Integral formula, Residue theorem of
complex functions
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Solve the second order linear partial differential equations by using
separation of variables method
• Solve problems in Fourier half range sine and cosine series
• Evaluate simple problems of finite Fourier sine and cosine transforms,
Inverse Fourier sine and cosine transform problems and apply to heat, wave
and Laplace equations
• Evaluate the line integrals using residue theorem, Cauchy’s theorem and
Cauchy’s integral formula
UNIT I
FOURIER SERIES
Fourier series of periodic functions, Euler’s formulae, Fourier series of even and odd
functions, having arbitrary periods, half range Fourier series.
UNIT II
FOURIER TRANSFORMS
Fourier transform, Sine and Cosine transforms and their properties , Finite fourier
Transforms and Parsavel’s Identity.
UNIT III
STANDARD PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
Method of seperation of variables, Applications: Problems of vibrating string- wave
equation, Problems of one-dimensional heat equation,Problems of steady state two
dimensional heat flow-Laplace equation.
61
R13
UNIT IV
FUNCTIONS OF A COMPLEX VARIABLE
Functions of a complex variable, Continuity, Differentiability, Analyticity, Cauchy-
Riemann equations in Cartesian and polar coordinates, Harmonic and conjugate
harmonic functions, Milne – Thompson method. Exponential, trigonometric, hyperbolic
zc
functions and their properties, and Logz .
UNIT V
INTEGRATION OF COMPLEX FUNCTION, POWER SERIES AND RESIDUES
Line integral, evaluation along a path and by indefinite integration. Cauchy’s integral
theorem, Cauchy’s integral formula. Expansion of Taylor’s series and Laurent series
(without proofs). Singular point, Isolated singular point, pole of order m , essential
singularity. Residues – Evaluation of residue by formulae, Residue theorem, Evaluation
of real integrals.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – B. S. Grewal,Khanna publishers.
2. Complex Variables & Its Applications- Churchill and Brown, (1996), International
Edition, McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Advance Engineering Mathematics - Peter O’Neil,(2000),5th Edition, Cengage
Learning.
2. Schaum’s Outline Of Complex Variables - Murray.R.Spiegel,(2011), 2nd Edition,
Tata McGraw Hill.
62
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IIYear B.Tech. ME&AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13MED003) MECHANICS OF SOLIDS
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics and Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives:
• Understand Material properties and relationship between them
• Understand the principles of Mechanics, Stress and Strain
• Under Stand throughly the concepts of principal stresses applied to solid
structural members and mohr’s circle diagram
• Understand the mechanical engineering problems concern to bending of
beams, torsion of shafts etc.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Formulate equations with appropriate assumptions
• Develop model and analyze solid mechanics problems
• Application of concepts of principal stresses in real life design issues
• Design and develop beams, shats for various applications
UNIT I
TENSION, COMPRESSION AND SHEAR
Introduction: Normal Stress and Strain; Stress-strain diagrams; Elasticity and plasticity;
Linear elasticity and Hooke’s law; Allowable stress and allowable loads.
AXIALLY LOADED MEMBERS
Introduction: Deflections of axially loaded members; Strain energy; Dynamic loading.
THERMAL STRESSES
UNIT II
SHEAR FORCE AND BENDING MOMENT DIAGRAMS
Types of beams; Types of loading; Shear force and bending moment; Relationship
between load, shear force and bending moment; Shear force and bending moment
diagrams.
TORSION
Introduction: Torsion of circular bars; Non uniform torsion; Pure shear; Relationship
between modulus of elasticity E and G; Transmission of power by circular shafts.
UNIT III
Area moment of inertia of composite sections.
STRESSES IN BEAMS
Introduction: Normal strains in beams; Normal stresses in beams; Cross-sectional
shapes of beams-C, angular and semicircle structures; Shear stresses in rectangular
63
R13
beams; Shear stress in webs of beams with flanges; Shear stress in circular beams
(solid and hollow sections); Concept of shear center and shear flow
UNIT IV
ANALYSIS OF STRESS AND STRAIN
Introduction: Plane stress; Principal stresses and maximum shear stresses; Mohr’s
circle for plane stress; Hooke’s law for plane stress; Spherical and cylindrical pressure
vessels (biaxial stress; Hoop and longitudinal stresses); Combined loadings (plane
stress); Principal stresses in beams.
UNIT V
DEFLECTIONS OF BEAMS
Introduction: Differential equations of the deflection curve; Deflections by integration of
the bending moment equation; Deflections by integration of the shear-force and load
equations; Macaulay’s method; Moment area method; Method of superposition.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Mechanics of Materials (SI units) by J.M.Gere and S.P.Timoshenko; Publisher:
CBS Publishers.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Mechanics of Solids by Popov; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Strength of Materials Schaum’s Series.
64
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech. ME& AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13MED004) THERMODYNAMICS
Course Prerequisites: Physics
Course Objectives:
• To understand the basic concepts of thermodynamics and Thermodynamic
Laws
• To apply the thermodynamic laws and principles in the fields of energy
technology
• To understand real world thermal engineering applications
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able
• Apply thermodynamic Laws to real world problems
• Adopt, apply and analyze thermodynamic cycles for various applications
• Design an appropriate thermodynamic system
UNIT I
CONCEPTS AND DEFINITIONS
Thermodynamic system and control volume; Macroscopic versus microscopic point of view;
Properties and state of a substance; Processes and cycles, Energy, Specific volume and
density, Equality of temperature; The Zeroth law of thermodynamics; Temperature scales.
WORK AND HEAT
Definition of work; Units for work; Work done at the moving boundary of a simple
compressible system; Other systems that involve work; Definition of heat; Heat transfer modes;
Comparison of heat and work.
THE FIRST LAW OF THERMODYNAMICS
The first law of thermodynamics for a control mass undergoing a cycle; The first law of
thermodynamics for a change in state of a control mass; Internal energy-a thermodynamic
property; Problem analysis and solution technique; Enthalpy; The constant-volume and
constant-pressure specific heats; The internal energy, enthalpy, and specific heat of ideal
gases; The first law as a rate equation.
FIRST LAW ANALYSIS FOR A CONTROL VOLUME
Conversion of mass and the control volume, The first law of thermodynamics for a control
volume, The steady-state process; Examples of steady-state processes.
UNIT II
THE SECOND LAW OF THERMODYNAMICS
Heat engines and refrigerators; The second law of thermodynamics; The reversible process;
Factors that render processes irreversible; The Carnot cycle; Two propositions regarding
the efficiency of a Carnot cycle; The thermodynamic temperature scale; The ideal-gas
temperature scale; Ideal versus real machines.
65
R13
ENTROPY FOR A CONTROL MASS
The inequality of Clausius; Entropy — a property of a system; The entropy of a pure
substance; Entropy change in reversible processes; The thermodynamic property
relation; Entropy change of an ideal gas; The reversible polytropic process for an ideal gas;
Entropy change of a control mass during an irreversible process; Entropy generation;
Principle of increase of entropy; Entropy as a rate equation.
UNIT III
IRREVERSIBILITY AND AVAILABILITY
Available energy; Reversible work and irreversibility; Availability and second-law efficiency;
Exergy balance equation.
Introduction to Third law of Thermodynamics & Concept of absolute entropy
PROPERTIES OF A PURE SUBSTANCE
The pure substance; Vapor- liquid- solid- phase equilibrium in a pure substance;
Independent properties of a pure substance; Steam Tables; Thermodynamic surfaces;
The compressibility factor; Equations of state.
UNIT IV
POWER CYCLES
Introduction to power systems; The Rankine cycle; Effect of pressure and temperature on
the Rankine cycle; Air-standard power cycles; The Brayton cycle; The air-standard
cycle for jet propulsion; Reciprocating engine power cycles; The Otto cycle; The Diesel
cycle; The Dual cycle, The Stirling cycle; The Atkinson and Miller cycles
UNIT V
IDEAL GAS MIXTURES
General consideration and mixtures of ideal gases; ideal gas equation Daltons law of partial
pressure
THERMODYNAMIC PROPERTY RELATIONS
Mathematical relations for a homogeneous phase; The Maxwell relations;
Thermodynamic relations involving enthalpy, internal energy, and entropy; The
Clapeyron equation; Joule-Thompson coefficient; Real gas behavior and equations
of state; The generalized chart for changes of enthalpy at constant temperature;
The property relation for mixtures; Tables of thermodynamic properties of gases.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Fundamentals of Thermodynamics by C. Borgnakke and R.E. Sonntag; Publisher
Wiley India Pvt. Ltd.
2. Engineering Thermodynamics by P.K. Nag, Publisher: McGraw-Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Fundamentals of Thermodynamics by C. Borgnakke, R.E. Sonntag, and G.J. Van
Wylen; Publisher John Wiley.
2. Engineering Thermodynamics by Burgadt, Harper & Row Publication.
3. Thermodynamics — An engineering approach by Yunus Cengel and Boles;
Publisher: TMH.
66
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech. ME&AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13MED005) METALLURGY AND MATERIAL SCIENCE
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics and Chemistry
Course Objectives:
• Understand the microstructures of different types of metal and alloys –cast
iron, steels, non ferrous metal and alloys
• Understand the heat treatment principles-annealing, normalizing and
hardening
• Understand the different types of tools
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Distinguish different types of metals and alloys
• Design a heat treatment process to change the properties-hardness, ductility,
etc.
• Analyze the failure of metals and alloys
UNIT I
METAL STRUCTURE AND CRYSTALLIZATION
Introduction - atom binding, ionic bond, covalent bond, metallic bond, and Vander
Waals forces; Crystal imperfections
OVERVIEW OF METAL STRUCTURE AND CRYSTALLIZATION. CONSTITUTION
OF ALLOYS
Introduction; Classification of alloys or compounds; Pure metal; Intermediate alloy
phase or compound - intermetallic compounds or valency compounds, interstitial
compounds, and electron compounds; Solid solutions; Substitution solid solution -
factors that control the range of solubility in alloy system; Interstitial solid solutions.
UNIT II
PHASE DIAGRAMS
Introduction; Coordinates of phase diagrams; Experimental methods - construction of
equilibrium diagrams by thermal analysis, metallographic methods, and X-ray
diffraction; Type-I-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid and solid states;
Chemical composition of phases; relative amounts of each phase; Equilibrium cooling
of a solid solution alloy; Diffusion; Nonequilibrium cooling; Homogenization; Properties
of solid-solution alloys; Variation of Type I; Type II-Two metals completely soluble in
the liquid state and completely insoluble in the solid state; Type III-Two metals
completely soluble in the liquid state but only partly soluble in the solid state; Properties
of eutectic alloy systems; Age hardening – solution treatment, and aging process; Type
IV-The congruent-melting intermediate phase; Type V-The peritectic reaction; Type VI-
67
R13
Two liquids partly soluble in the liquid state: the monotectic reaction; Type VII-two
metals insoluble in the liquid and solid states; Interrelation of basic types;
Transformations in the solid state - allotropy, order-disorder transformation, the
eutectoid reaction, the peritectoid reaction, and complex diagrams; Study of important
binary phase diagrams of Cu-Ni, Al-Si, Sb-Pb, Pt-Ag, Bi-Cd, Cu-Pb, Cu-Sn and Fe-
Fe C.
3
UNIT III
THE HEAT TREATMENT OF STEEL
Introduction; Full Annealing; Spheroidizing; Stress-relief annealing; Process annealing;
Normalizing; Hardening; The isothermal transformation diagram; Transformation to
Pearlite and Bainite; Cooling curves and I-T Diagram; Transformation on continuous
cooling; Position of the I-T curves; Hardening or austenitizing temperature;
Homogeneity of austenite; Mechanism of heat removal during quenching - vapor-
blanket cooling state (stage A), vapor transport cooling stage (stage B), Liquid cooling
stage (stage C); Quenching medium; Temperature of quenching medium; Surface
condition - methods to minimize the formation of scale - copper plating, protective
atmosphere, liquid-salt pots, and cast-iron chips; Size and Mass; Hardenability; Use of
Hardenability data; Tempering; Austempering; Surface heat treatment or case
hardening; Carburizing; Heat treatment after carburizing; Cyaniding and Carbonitriding;
Nitriding; Flame hardening; Induction Hardening; Residual Stresses; Hardenable
carbon steels; Effect of cryogenic heat treatment – A brief study.
UNIT IV
ALLOY STEELS
Introduction; Purpose of alloying; Effect of alloying elements upon Ferrite; Effect of
alloying elements upon carbide; Influence of alloying elements on the iron-iron carbide
diagram; Effect of alloying elements in tampering; Classification of steels - nickel steel,
chromium steel, nickel-chromium steels, manganese steels, molybdenum steels,
tungsten steels, vanadium steels, silicon steels, stainless steels, martensitic stainless
steels, ferritic stainless steels, austenitic stainless steels, precipitation-hardening
stainless steels, maraging steels, and ausforming.
TOOL STEELS
Classification of tool steels; Selection of tool steels; Comparative properties; Non-
deforming properties; Depth of hardening; Toughness; Wear resistance; Red-
hardness; Machinability; Resistance to decarburization; Brand names; Water-
hardening tool steels (Group W); Shock resisting tool steels (Group S); Cold-work tool
steels; Hot-work tool steels (Group H); High speed tool steels; Mold Steels (Group P);
Special purpose tool steels; Heat treatment of tool steels; Overview of tool failures;
Special cutting materials – satellites, cemented carbides, and ceramic tools.
68
R13
UNIT V
CAST IRON
Introduction; Types of cast iron; White cast iron; Malleable cast iron; Pearlitic malleable
iron; Gray cast iron; Silicon in cast iron; Sulfur in cast iron; Manganese in cast iron;
Phosphorus in cast iron; Heat treatment of grey iron, Size and distribution of graphite
flakes; Mechanical properties and applications of grey cast iron; Chilled cast iron;
Nodular cast iron; Alloy cast irons.
NON-FERROUS METALS AND ALLOYS
Introduction; Copper and its alloys - Copper, temper designation of copper and copper
alloys, and copper alloys; Aluminum and its alloys - Aluminum, Alloy designation
system, and temper designation; Titanium and Titanium alloys.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Introduction to Physical Metallurgy by Sidney H. Avner; Publisher: McGraw-Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Essentials of Materials Science and Engineering by Donald R. Askeland and
Thomson.
2. Materials Science and Engineering by William and Collister.
3. Elements of Materials Science by V.Raghavan.
4. Materials Science and Metallurgy by Kodigiri.
69
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech. ME& AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13MED006) FLUID MECHANICS AND HYDRAULIC MACHINES
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics and Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives:
• Understand the properties of fluids, principles of buoyancy, flow, force and
head calculations
• Understand boundary layer principles applied to aerofoiles
• Principles of operation of different types of hydraulic machinery
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Apply the knowledge of fluids and properties to solve flow, force and velocity
problems
• Apply the knowledge of fluid flow and dynamics in solving problems in
hydraulic machines
• Perform model analysis of hydraulic machinery and select appropriate
machines for hydro power plant
UNIT I
FLUID STATICS
Properties of fluid – specific gravity, viscosity, surface tension, vapor pressure and their
influence on fluid motion, Pressure at a point, measurement of pressure, Forces on
immersed surfaces, Center of pressure, Buoyancy, Elements of stability of floating
bodies.
FLUID KINEMATICS
Classification of flows, acceleration equations, Stream line, path line and streak lines
and stream tube, continuity equation, Stream function, velocity potential function.
UNIT II
FLUID DYNAMICS
Surface and body forces – Euler’s and Bernoulli’s equation, Venturimeter, Orifice
meter, Pitot tube, Reynolds experiment –Darcy Weisbach equation – Minor losses in
pipes – pipes in series and pipes in parallel. Momentum equation, force on pipe bend.
UNIT III
BOUNDARY LAYER THEORY
Development of boundary layer along a thin flat plate, Laminar boundary layer and
turbulent boundary layer, Laminar sub layer, boundary layer separation, Drag and lift
forces - Aerofoils, pressure and form drags.
70
R13
IMPACT OF JETS
Hydrodynamic force of jets on flat, inclined and curved vanes - jet striking centrally and
at tip, flow over radial vanes
UNIT IV
HYDRAULIC TURBINES
Classification of turbines, design of Pelton wheel, Francis turbine and Kaplan turbine –
working proportion, work done, efficiency, draft tube- theory, functions and efficiency.
Geometric similarity, Unit and specific quantities, characteristic curves, governing of
turbines, selection of type of turbine, cavitation, surge tank and water hammer,
elements of hydropower plant.
UNIT V
HYDRAULIC PUMPS
Classification, centrifugal pumps – types, working, work done, manometric head,
losses and efficiency, specific speed – pumps in series and parallel – performance
characteristic curves, NPSH, Reciprocating Pump – types, Working, Discharge, slip,
indicator diagrams.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Hydraulics and Fluid Mechanics Including Hydraulics Machines: Dr. P.N.Modi, Dr.
S.M. Seth.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Fluid mechanics V. L. Streeter & E. B. Wylie.
2. Fluid mechanics, fundamentals & applications - Yunus A. Çengel, John M.
Cimbala.
3. Fluid mechanics: F. M. White .
4. Introduction to Fluid Mechanics, R. W. Fox, A. T. McDonald and P.J Pritchard.
5. Fundamentals of fluid mechanics: Bruce Roy Munson, Donald F. Young,
Theodore H. Okiishi, Wade W. Huebsch Wiley Publication.
71
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech. ME & AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED104) METALLURGY AND MATERIAL SCIENCE LAB
Course Prerequisites: Metallurgy and Material science
Course Objectives:
• Understand the need of proper simplification for different materials
• Understand the significance microstructure of different materials under
microscopic testing
• Understand the changes in microstructures after different treatments
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Identify materials for micro structure
• Test microstructure of any given material and predict properties
• Prepare appropriate heat treatment for a given material by checking its
microstructure
1. Preparation and study of the microstructure of metals like Iron, Cu and Al
2. Preparation and study of the microstructure of mild steels, low carbon steels, and
high carbon steels
3. Study of the microstructures of cast irons
4. Study of the microstructures of non-ferrous alloys
5. Study of the microstructures of heat treated steels
6. Harden ability of steels by Jiminy end quench test
7. To find out the hardness of various treated and untreated steels
8. Study the microstructure of cutting tools
9. Study the micro structures of stainless steel
10. Study the different crystal structures of metals
72
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech. ME& AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED105) MECHANICS OF SOLIDS LAB
Course Prerequisites: Mechanics of solids, Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives:
• Understand various tests to be conducted on engineering materials
• Understand the significance of tests on evaluating the corresponding
mechanical properties
• Understand the importance of technical parameters used during tests
• Understand the real time applications of the tests conducted
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Correlate the theoretical concepts by conducting the tests on different
materials
• Plot the result of test and comment on the mechanical properties of materials
• Decide a material and an appropriate test suitable for given application
• Understand the significance of the tests in different fields of engineering
Mechanics of Solids lab
1. Direct tension test
2. Bending tests:
a) Simple supported beam
b) Cantilever beam
3. Torsion test
4. Hardness test
a) Brunel hardness test
b) Rockwell hardness test
5. Test on springs
6. Compression test on a cube
7. Impact test
8. Punch shear test
9. Mechanical advantage :
(a) Simple screw jack
(b) Compound screw jack
10. Moment of Inertia of a fly wheel
11. To Study various types of Strain Gauges
73
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech. ME& AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED106) FLUID MECHANICS AND HYDRAULIC MACHINES LAB
Course Prerequisites: Fluid Mechanics& Hydraulic Machines course
Course Objectives:
• Conduct the experiments to understand the concept, find the values and
obtain the result of experiments
• Apply fundamental principles of fluid mechanics for the solution of practical
mechanical engineering problems of water conveyance in pipes, orifices,
mouth pieces, notches & weirs
• Understand various pumps, water turbines, pipes and pressure measurement
devices
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Model and analyse fluid flow problems in mechanical engineering
• Conduct experiments in pipe flows and open-channel flows and interpreting
data from model studies to prototype cases
• Correlate the experimental results with theoretical concepts
Any 10 experiments to be conducted from the following
1. Verification of Bernoulli’s theorem
2. Calibration of Venturimeter / Orifice meter
3. Calibration of t notches
4. Determination of friction factor for a given pipe
5. Determination of Minor losses for the given equipment
6. Impact of jets on vanes
7. Performance test on Pelton wheel
8. Performance test on Francis turbine
9. Performance test on Kaplan turbine
10. Performance test on single stage centrifugal pump
11. Performance test on multi stage centrifugal pump
12. Performance test on reciprocating pump
74
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year II Sem B.Tech. (All branches except EEE) L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13MTH003) NUMERICAL ANALYSIS AND LINEAR PROGRAMMING
Course prerequisites: Elementary row transformations of matrices, differentiation and
integration.
Course objectives:
• Understand the numerical methods for non linear systems, evaluating definite
integrals and ordinary differential equations
• Understand various methods of interpolation
• Understand the simplex method and methods to solve the transportation
problem
Course outcomes:
Student will be able to
• Apply the numerical methods to find a root of algebraic and transcendental
equations
• Apply the numerical methods to find the solutions of ordinary differential
equations
• Use simplex method procedure to optimize a linear function
• Solve transportation problems
UNIT I
SOLUTIONS OF NON-LINEAR SYSTEMS
Introduction; Mathematical preliminaries; Solution of algebraic and transcendental
equations – the iteration method, the bisection method, the method of false position,
Newton - Raphson method, and their order of convergence.
UNIT II
INTERPOLATION
Introduction; Errors in polynomial interpolation; Finite differences; Forward differences;
Backward differences; Central differences; Symbolic relations and separation of
symbols; Differences of a polynomial; Newton’s formulae for interpolation; Central
difference interpolation formulae; Gauss’s central difference formulae; Lagrange and
Hermite interpolation formulae.
UNIT III
NUMERICAL DIFFERENTIATION AND INTEGRATION
Numerical differentiation based on interpolation ,Numerical integration: Trapezoidal
rule, Simpson’s 1/3 rule, and Simpson’s 3/8 rule.
75
R13
NUMERICAL SOLUTIONS OF ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
Solution of initial value problems by Taylor’s series - Picard’s method of successive
approximations, Euler’s method, and Runge - Kutta methods; Predictor Corrector
methods - Adams Bashforth method- Adams Moulton method and Milne’s method
(without proofs).
UNIT IV
LINEAR PROGRAMMING
Basic concepts; problem formulation, graphical method, canonical and standard forms
of LPP simplex method, Artificial variables technique- Big-M method,
UNIT V
TRANSPORTATION PROBLEMS
Balanced and Unbalanced transportation problems- North-West corner rule, Least cost
method, Vogel’s approximation method (VAM) and MODI method.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Elementary Numerical Analysis – B.S. Grewal, 3rd edition Publisher: Khanna
Publishers.
2. Operations Research - Taha H.A, Publisher: McMillan Publishing.
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher:
John Wiley and Sons.
2. Elementary Numerical Analysis – an algorithmic approach -Samuel D. Conte and
Carl De Boor (2006); 3rd edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill
3. Operations Research – by S.D. Gupta.
4. Operations Research- Kantiswaroop, P.K Gupta and Manmohan, 4th edition,
Publisher: Sultan Chand & Sons.
76
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech. AE II SEM L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13AED001) APPLIED THERMODYNAMICS
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Thermodynamics
Course Objectives:
• Understand the first law and analysis in different applications
• Understand the second law and analysis in different applications
• Design and optimization of engineering systems
• Use mathematical skills to solve engineering thermodynamic problems
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to
• Evaluate the performance parameters of different thermodynamic systems
• Formulate, model and solve problems involving systems and devices having
various forms of energy exchange and energy conversion
• Model systems, and to be able to identify sub-systems and components in
engineering systems
UNIT I
STEAM GENERATORS
Introduction, classification of boilers, working principles of fire tube and water tube
boilers, low pressure boilers, high pressure boilers, Babcock and Wilcox, Lamont
boiler, boiler draught and performance of boilers and equivalent evaporation.
STEAM CONDENSERS
Introduction, purpose and types of condenser, efficiency of condenser and Edward air
pump.
UNIT II
STEAM NOZZLES
Functions of nozzle, applications, types, flow through nozzles, thermodynamic
analysis, assumptions, velocity of nozzle at exit, ideal and actual expansion in nozzle,
velocity co-efficient, condition for maximum discharge and critical pressure ratio.
STEAM TURBINES:
Classification, impulse turbine, mechanical details, velocity diagram, effect of friction,
power developed, axial thrust, diagram efficiency, condition for maximum efficiency
and methods to reduce rotor speed.
REACTION TURBINE:
Mechanical details, principle of operation, Thermodynamic analysis of a stage, Degree
of reaction, velocity diagram, parson’s reaction turbine and condition for maximum
efficiency.
77
R13
UNIT III
COMPRESSORS
Classification, power producing and power absorbing machines, fan, blower and
compressor, roots blower, vane blower, sealed compressor and Lysholm compressor –
working principle.
RECIPROCATING COMPRESSORS
Principle of operation, work required, isothermal efficiency, volumetric efficiency and
effect of clearance, multi stage compression, under cooling, saving of work and
minimum work condition for stage compression.
UNIT IV
CENTRIFUGAL COMPRESSORS
Mechanical details and principle of operation, velocity and pressure variation, energy
transfer, impeller blade shape-losses, slip factor, power input factor, pressure co-
efficient, adiabatic co-efficient, velocity diagrams and power requirement to run the
compressor.
AXIAL FLOW COMPRESSORS
Mechanical details and principle of operation, velocity triangles and energy transfer per
stage degree of reaction, work done factor, isentropic efficiency, pressure rise
calculations and polytrophic efficiency
UNIT V
GAS TURBINES
Classification of gas turbine plants, ideal cycle, essential components, parameters of
performance, actual cycle, regeneration, inter cooling and reheating.
JET PROPULSION AND ROCKETS
Classification of Jet propulsion engines, principle of operation, working principles with
schematic diagram and representation on T- s diagram. Needs and demands met by
turbo jet engines, rockets, application, working principle, classification and propellant
type.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Thermal Engineering/ Rathod / TMH.
2. Gas Turbines / V. Ganesan / TMH.
REFERENCES:
1. Thermal Engineering / R.K.Rajput / Laxmi Publications.
2. I.C. Engines / Mathur & Sharma / Dhanpath Rai & Sons.
3. Thermodynamics & Heat Engines / R.Yadav/ Central Book Depot.
4. Thermal Engineering / P L Ballaney / Khanna Publishers.
5. Gas Turbines and Propulsive systems / P Khajuria and S P Dubey / Dhanpat Rai
& Sons.
78
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech. AE II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13AED002) AUTOMOTIVE ENGINES AND SYSTEMS
Course Prerequisites: Thermodynamics, Basic Electrical Engineering
Course Objectives:
• Understand the fundamentals, operation and function of an automotive
engine
• Understand the working of fuel, ignition, cooling, lubrication and electrical
systems
• Understand the performance and emission characteristics of an engine
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to
• Diagnose the simple problems on fuel, ignition, cooling, lubrication and
electrical systems
• Analyze engine performance characteristics
• Develop safe attitude towards mechanical operations of an automotive
engine
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Classification and components of an engine, principle and working of four stoke and
two stroke SI and CI engines. Comparison of theoretical and actual cycles and their
analysis. Multi-fuel engine, Sterling cycle engine, Wankel engine, stratified charge
engine, lean burn engine and hybrid electric vehicles.
ENGINE CONSTRUCTION
Cylinder head, cylinder block, crank case, sump, cooling passages, cylinder liners,
piston types, piston rings, connecting rods, crank shafts, valves, valve seat inserts,
valve actuating mechanisms and drive mechanisms.
UNIT II
COMBUSTION AND COMBUSTION CHAMBERS
Petrol engines - Ignition limits, stages of combustion, effect of engine variables,
knocking and detonation - theory, parameters affecting and control, combustion
chamber - different types and design. Diesel engines – Air/Fuel ratio, stages of
combustion, knocking and detonation - theory, parameters affecting and control,
combustion chamber - different types.
FUEL FEED SYSTEMS
Carburetor, Air/Fuel mixture proportions, cold start, idle, normal running and
acceleration and transfer circuits. Diesel fuel injection pump, construction and working
79
R13
principles. Governing systems, types of fuel injectors and nozzles, Introduction to
electronic fuel injection system.
UNIT III
IGNITION SYSTEM
Battery ignition system, magneto ignition system, electronic ignition system using
contract breakers and triggers.
ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS
Charging circuit, generator, current – voltage regulator, starting system, Bendex drive
mechanism and solenoid switch.
UNIT IV
COOLING AND LUBRICATION SYSTEMS
Engine heat transfer, engine energy balance, necessity of cooling, air-cooling, water
cooling - thermosyphon and pump cooling, radiator, pump, thermostat, antifreeze
solution and radiator fan. Lubrication Systems – Mist, splash, forced, dry sump and wet
sump, oil filters and oil pumps.
SUPERCHARGING AND TURBOCHARGING
Necessity of supercharging, mechanical supercharging and turbocharging,
compressors and turbines for supercharging, degree of supercharging, methods of
supercharging and efficiency of supercharged engine.
UNIT V
ENGINE TESTING AND PERFORMANCE
Indicated power, brake power, engine torque, mechanical efficiency, air standard
efficiency, brake thermal efficiency, indicated thermal efficiency, relative efficiency,
volumetric efficiency, heat balance sheet and exhaust gas analyzer.
ENGINE EMISSION AND CONTROL
Sources of emissions, unburnt hydrocarbons (HC), oxides of nitrogen (NO ) and
X
carbon monoxide (CO) in SI engines, catalytic converters, unburnt hydrocarbons (HC),
oxides of nitrogen (NO ) and particulate matter (PM) in CI engines and exhaust gas
X
recirculation.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Automobile Engineering / Williams Crouse , TM Hill Publishers.
2. Ganesan V, “Internal Combustion Engines”, Tata McGraw Hill, New Delhi.
REFERENCES:
1. Fundamentals of Automotive Engines/ Richard Stone, SAE Publications.
2. Obert E F, “Internal Combustion Engine analysis and Practice ", International Text
Book Co., Scranton, Pennsylvania, 1988.
3. John B Heywood, “Internal Combustion Engine Fundamentals”, McGraw Hill
International Editions, 1988.
4. Mathur L and Sharma R P, “Internal Combustion Engines”, Dhanpat Rai
Publications (P), Ltd, 8th edition, New Delhi.
80
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech. AE II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13AED003) THEORY OF MACHINES
Course Prerequisites: Basic integral and differential calculus, vectors, engineering
mechanics and engineering drawing
Course Objectives:
• Understand different machine elements and mechanisms
• Understand Kinematics and Dynamics of different machines and mechanisms
• Select Suitable Drives and Mechanisms for a particular application
• Appreciate concept of balancing and Vibration
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to
• Identify mechanisms and predict their motion
• Design mechanisms to fulfill motion generation and quick return requirements
and Study about the gears and gear trains
• Determine the positions, velocities and accelerations of links and points on
mechanisms
• Balance simple rotating objects and pin-jointed four bar linkages and
determination of turning moment diagrams
UNIT I
MECHANISMS AND MACHINES
Introduction, mechanism and machine, rigid and resistant bodies, link, kinematic pair,
degrees of freedom, classification of kinematic pairs, kinematic chain linkage,
mechanism and structure and mobility of mechanisms.
The four-bar chain, the slider-crank chain and double slider-crank chain mechanisms,
inversions of these mechanisms and mechanical advantage.
PLANE MOTION OF BODY
Instantaneous center of rotation, centrode - relative motion between two bodies-Three
centers in line theorem.
UNIT II
KINEMATICS
Velocity and acceleration-motion of link in machine - Determination of velocity and
acceleration diagrams, graphical method, application of relative velocity method and
four bar chain.
ANALYSIS OF MECHANISMS
Analysis of slider crank chain for displacement, velocity and acceleration of slider-
acceleration diagram for a given mechanism, Klein’s construction, Coriolis
81
R13
acceleration, determination of Coriolis component of acceleration and dynamic analysis
of slider-crank mechanism.
UNIT III
CAMS
Definition of cam and followers-their uses-types of followers and cams-terminology-
types of follower motion-uniform velocity-simple harmonic motion and uniform
acceleration, maximum velocity and acceleration during outward and return strokes in
the above three cases. Analysis of motion of followers - Roller follower, circular cam
with straight, concave and convex flanks.
UNIT IV
HIGHER PAIRS
Friction wheels and toothed gears-types-law of gearing, condition for constant velocity
ratio for transmission of motion, forms of teeth - Cycloidal and involute profiles. Velocity
of sliding - Phenomena of interference, methods of interference, condition for minimum
number of teeth to avoid interference, expression for arc of contact and path of contact.
GEAR TRAINS
Introduction, train value, types - Simple and reverted wheel trains, epicyclic gear train,
methods of finding train value or velocity ratio and selection of gear box differential
gear for an automobile.
UNIT V
TURNING MOMENT DIAGRAMS
Inertia torque, angular velocity and acceleration of connecting rod, crank effort and
torque diagrams.
GYROSCOPE
Angular velocity, angular acceleration, gyroscopic torque, gyroscopic effect on naval
ships, stability of an automobile and stability of a two-wheel vehicle.
BALANCING
Introduction, static balancing, dynamic balancing, transference of a force from one
Plane to another, balancing of several masses in different planes, force balancing of
linkages and balancing of reciprocating mass.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Theory of Machines by S.S.Ratan, Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Theory of machines by Shigley, Oxford University Press.
REFERENCES:
1. Theory of Machines by Thomas Bevan, Pearson Education.
2. Theory of machines by R. S. Khurmi & J. K. Gupta, S. Chand.
3. Theory of machines by R. K. Bansal, Laxmi Publication.
4. Theory of machines by Sadhu Singh, Pearson Education.
5. Theory of Machines by P. L. Ballaney, Khanna Publishers.
82
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech. ME, AE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13EEE079) BASIC ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
Course Objectives:
• To get awareness of using mechanical energy for electrical energy
generation
• To understand the basic operation of circuits used for automobile control
• To know about working of different electrical machines used for propulsion of
vehicles
• To know the basic operation of diode and transistor
Course Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the student will be able to
• Analyze the electro-mechanical energy conversion using electrical machines
• Analyze the different electrical machines used for propulsion of vehicles
• Analyze different control circuits which involve different circuits’ parameters
• Analyze the operation of transistor and CRT
UNIT I
ELECTRICAL CIRCUITS
Circuit Concept R-L-C parameters-Ohm’s law - Kirchhoff’s laws - Series - Parallel
resistive networks - Star/delta transformations.
AC CIRCUITS
Average value, rms value, form factor of sinusoidal function, R-L, R-C and R-L-C
circuits- Concept of Power factor, Real and reactive powers simple problems.
UNIT II
DC MACHINES
Principle of operation of DC Generator – emf equation - types – Principle of operation
of DC Motor - DC motor types –torque equation – Three point starter -Swinburne’s test,
applications.
TRANSFORMERS
Principle of operation of single phase transformer–emf equation–losses–OC and SC
tests - efficiency and regulation
UNIT III
AC MACHINES
Principle of operation of alternator – regulation by synchronous impedance method –
Principle of operation of induction motor – slip – torque characteristics – applications.
83
R13
INSTRUMENTS
Principle and construction of permanent magnet moving coil and moving iron
instruments.
UNIT IV
DIODE AND IT’S CHARACTERISTICS
P-n junction diode, symbol, V-I Characteristics, Diode Applications: Rectifiers – Half
wave Full wave and Bridge rectifiers (simple Problems)
UNIT V
TRANSISTORS
PNP and NPN Junction transistor, Transistor as an amplifier, SCR characteristics and
applications
CATHODE RAY OSCILLOSCOPE
Principles of CRT (Cathode Ray Tube), Deflection, Sensitivity, Electrostatic and
Magnetic deflection, Applications of CRO - Voltage, Current and frequency
measurements.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Electronic Devices and Circuits David A Bell Oxford University Press.
2. Introduction to Electrical Engineering – M.S Naidu and S. Kamakshaiah, TMH
Publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Principles of Electrical and Electronics Engineering by V.K.Mehta, S.Chand & Co.
2. Basic Electrical Engineering by Kothari and Nagarath, TMH Publications, 2nd
edition.
84
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech. ME& AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 6 3
(13MED107) MACHINE DRAWING
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Graphics
Course Objectives:
• Understand the Principles of Machine Drawing Conventions
• Understand the Machine Elements like Screw Threads, Nuts, Bolts, Keys,
and Shafts & Bearings
• Understand the different views of Part Drawings and based on that, draw
the Assembled Parts of Engine & Machine parts
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Apply the Knowledge of Machine Drawing Conventions
• Use the AutoCAD Software and draw the Machine Elements like Screw
Threads, Nuts, Bolts, Keys, Shafts & Bearings
• Design all the parts & assemble them in AutoCAD with section views
Machine drawing conventions
Need for drawing conventions – Introduction to IS conventions
a) Conventional representation of materials, common machine elements and parts
such as screws, nuts, bolts, keys, gears, webs and ribs
b) Types of sections – selection of section planes and drawing of sections and
auxiliary sectional views. Parts not usually sectioned
c) Methods of dimensioning, general rules for sizes, and placement of dimensions for
holes, centers, and curved and tapered features
d) Title boxes, their size, location, and other details - common abbreviations and their
liberal usage
e) Types of drawings – working drawings for machine parts
I. DRAWING OF MACHINE ELEMENTS AND SIMPLE PARTS
Selection of orthogonal views and additional views for the following machine elements
and parts with every drawing proportion.
a) Popular forms of screw threads, bolts, nuts, stud bolts
b) Keys, cottered joints, and knuckle joint
c) Riveted joints for plates
d) Shaft coupling and spigot joint
e) Journal, pivot, and collar bearings
85
R13
II. ASSEMBLY DRAWINGS
Assembly drawings for the following, using conventions and easy drawing proportions:
a) Engine parts – stuffing boxes, eccentrics, I.C. engine connecting rod and piston
assembly
b) Other parts - screws jacks, machine vices, and tailstock
NOTE
1. To adopt first angle of projection.
2. The student should be able to provide working drawings of actual parts.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Machine Drawing by K. L. Narayana, P. Kannaiah and K. Venkata Reddy;
Publisher: New Age/ Publishers.
REFERENCES:
1. Machine Drawing by Siddheswar, Kannaiah and Sastry.
2. Machine Drawing by N. D. Bhat.
86
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech. AE– II sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13AED101) AUTOMOTIVE ENGINES LAB
Course Prerequisites: Automotive engine operation and working of engine systems
Course Objectives:
• Understand the fundamentals, operation and functions of an automotive
engine
• Understand the working of fuel, ignition, cooling, lubrication and electrical
systems
• Understand the performance and emission characteristics of an engine
Course Outcomes:
Students will able to
• Diagnose the simple problems on fuel, ignition, cooling, lubrication and
electrical systems
• Analyze engine performance characteristics
• Develop safe attitude towards mechanical operations of an automotive
engine
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS (Any ten experiments)
1. Valve timing diagram for 4-Stroke Diesel engine
2. Valve timing diagram for 4-Stroke petrol engine
3. Port timing diagram for 2-Stroke petrol engine
4. Performance test on 4-Stroke single cylinder Diesel engine
5. Performance test on 2-Stroke petrol engine
6. Heat balance test on 4-Stroke single cylinder Diesel engine
7. Optimum cooling temperature test on single cylinder Diesel engine
8. Morse test on multi-cylinder petrol engine
9. Performance test on computerised Diesel engine
10. Performance test on computerised duel fuel engine
11. Exhaust gas analysis on computerised Diesel engine by flue gas analyser
12. Permanence test on reciprocating compressor test rig
87
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech. ME, AE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13EEE179) BASIC ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING LAB
Course Objectives:
• Understand the performance of D.C Shunt Machine
• Understand the performance of AC machines
• Understand the performance and efficiency / regulation of electrical machines
are determined experimentally
• Understand the operation of solid state devices like diode, transistor and SCR
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the student will be able to
• Find the application of electrical machines with the experimental
determination of the performance of the machines
• Find the application of Induction motor with the experimental determination of
the performance of the machines
• Find the application of single phase transformer
• Identify the characteristics of all solid state devices
SECTION A: ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
The following experiments are required to be conducted as compulsory experiments:
1. Swinburne’s test on D.C. Shunt machine. (Predetermination of efficiency of a
given D.C. Shunt machine working as motor and generator)
2. Brake test on D.C Shunt Motor
3. OC and SC tests on single phase transformer (Predetermination of efficiency and
regulation at given power factors)
4. Brake test on 3-phase Induction motor (Determination of performance
characteristics)
5. Regulation of alternator by Synchronous impedance method
SECTION B: ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
The following experiments are required to be conducted as compulsory experiments:
1. P-n Diode Characteristics
2. Transistor CE Characteristics (Input and Output)
3. Full wave Rectifier with and without filters
4. CE Amplifiers
5. SCR Characteristics
88
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. AE– I sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13EEE081) ELECTRICAL VEHICLES AND HYBRID ELECTRICAL VEHICLES
Course Prerequisites: Physics, Basic Electrical Engineering.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the basics of an automobile engineering without any previous
knowledge regarding automobiles
• Understand the difference between IC engine vehicle and HEV/EV
• Appreciate the current technologies in the automobile industry
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to
• Design electric vehicle
• Design hybrid vehicle
• Design fuel cell & solar car
UNIT I
ELECTRIC VEHICLES
Layout of an electric vehicle, performance of electric vehicles, traction motor
characteristics, tractive effort, transmission requirements, vehicle performance, energy
consumption, advantage and limitations, specifications, system components and
electronic control system.
UNIT II
HYBRID VEHICLES
Concepts of hybrid electric drive train, types, architecture of series and parallel hybrid
electric drive train, merits and demerits, series and parallel hybrid electric drive train
design.
UNIT III
ELECTRIC PROPULSION SYSTEMS
DC motors, AC motors, permanent magnet motors, brushless DC and reluctance
motors, characteristics, regenerative braking. DC generators, AC generators, voltage
and frequency regulations.
MOTOR CONTROLLERS AND CONTROL SYSTEMS
Control system principles, speed and torque control – DC motors and AC motors.
UNIT IV
ENERGY STORAGES
Electromechanical batteries - Types of batteries, lead acid batteries, nickel based
batteries, lithium based batteries, electrochemical reactions, thermodynamic voltage,
specific energy, specific power, energy efficiency and ultracapacitors.
89
R13
UNIT V
FUEL CELLS AND SOLAR CARS
Fuel cell - construction, working, equations, possible fuel sources, fuel reformer and
design. Solar cars- photovoltaic cells, tracking, efficiency and cost comparison.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Mehrdad Ehsani, Yimin Gao, sebastien E. Gay and Ali Emadi, “Modern Electric,
Hybrid Electric and Fuel Cell Vehicles: Fundamentals, Theory and Design”, CRS
Press, 2004.
2. James Larminie and John Loury, “Electric Vehicle Technology-Explained”, John
Wiley & Sons Ltd., 2003.
REFERENCES:
1. Sandeep Dhameja, “Electric Vehicle Battery Systems”, Butterworth –Heinemann,
2002.
2. Ronald K Jurgen, “Electric and Hybrid – Electric Vehicles”, SAE, 2002.
3. Ron Hodkinson and John Fenton, “Light Weight Electric/Hybrid Vehicle Design”,
Butterworth-Heine.
90
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13AED004) REFRIGERATION AND AUTO AIR CONDITIONING
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Mechanics & Thermodynamics
Course Objectives:
• Understand working of vapour compression refrigeration system and air
refrigeration system, vapor absorption system, steam jet refrigeration system
and unconventional refrigeration system
• And able to do load estimation for vehicle cooling
• Understand the principle and operation of air conditioning system and its
components
• Understand about trouble shooting and servicing of air conditioners
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to
• Apply knowledge of various refrigeration systems in designing a suitable one
for automobiles
• Apply knowledge of air conditioning systems in designing a suitable one for
automobiles
• Apply knowledge of trouble shooting and servicing of air conditioners in
automobiles
UNIT I
VAPOUR COMPRESSORS REFRIGERATION
Working principle, refrigeration cycle in T-s and P-h coordinates, effect of sub cooling
and super heating and cycle analysis.
AIR REFRIGERATION
Applications, air craft refrigeration - simple, bootstrap, regenerative systems, vehicle
cooling, load estimation, capacity requirements of air conditioning system, refrigerants
used in automobiles and properties.
UNIT II
VAPOR ABSORPTION SYSTEM
Aqua-Ammonia system and Lithium-Bromide system.
STEAM JET REFRIGERATION SYSTEM
Representation on T-s and h-s diagrams, limitations and applications.
UNCONVENTIONAL REFRIGERATION SYSTEM
Thermo-electric, vortex tube and pulse tube – working principles.
91
R13
UNIT III
INTRODUCTION TO AIR CONDITIONING
Psychrometric properties and processes, sensible and latent heat loads,
characterization and SHF load for ventilation and filtration, concepts of RSHF and SHF
ESHF and ADP, concepts of human comfort and effective temperature.
COMPONENTS OF AIR CONDITIONERS
Air-conditioning components: Compressor, evaporator, condenser, expansion valve,
receiver, drier, filters, mufflers, special features and compressor protection anti freezing
relay.
UNIT IV
OPERATION OF AN AIR-CONDITIONING SYSTEM
Type of air conditioners, heaters, vehicle ventilation, combination heater and air
conditioner, manually controlled air conditioner and heater system, automatically
controlled air conditioner and heater systems.
AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT
Ducts, registers and grills, blowers and filters.
UNIT V
TROUBLE SHOOTING AND SERVICES
Servicing of heating systems, causes of air conditioner failure, leak testing guide,
discharging the system, evacuating the system, charging the system and
troubleshooting air conditioner heater Systems
SERVICING OF AIR CONDITIONERS- HEATING SYSTEMS
Air conditioner maintenance and service, compressor trouble shooting and service,
clutch service, shaft seal leakage compressor, seal removal checking oil level, oil
addition and repairs on compressors.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Refrigeration & Air Conditioning – C.P. Aurora-TMH.
2. Refrigeration & Air Conditioning – Aurora & Domkundwar – Dhanpat Rai.
3. Automotive Air Conditioning –William .H.Crouse & Donald L.Angtin.-MH.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning : Manohar Prasad.
2. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning : Stoecker – Mc Graw Hill.
3. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning : Dossat – Mc Graw Hill.
4. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning : Domkundwar – Dhanpatrai.
92
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. ME & AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13MED009) PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY
Course Prerequisites: Material Science, Manufacturing Science
Course Objectives:
• Understand metal joining techniques
• Understand the principles involved in ferrous and non-ferrous casting design
• Understand cold and hot working of metals and processing of non-metals like
plastics
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Design castings taking into considerations of different moulds and their
preparations
• Design different welded joints applying it to different welding processes and
able to conduct different types of tests on weld mates
• Produce various work pieces using cold and hot working of a metal
UNIT I
CASTING
Steps involved in making a casting; Advantage of casting and its applications; Pattern
and core making; Types of patterns – Materials used for patterns; Pattern allowances
and their construction; Principles of Gating, Gating ratio and design of gating systems.
Solidification of casting; Concept; Solidification of pure metal and alloys; Risers; Types;
Function and design; Casting design considerations; Quality testing and inspection of
castings; Special casting processes; Centrifugal, Die, Investment casting; Melting
furnaces.
UNIT II
WELDING
Classification of welding process types of welds and welded joints and their
characteristics, design of welded joints, Gas welding, ARC welding, Forge welding,
resistance welding, Thermit welding and Plasma welding Inert Gas welding, TIG &
MIG, welding, Friction stir welding, Induction welding, Explosive welding, Laser
welding, Soldering & Brazing. Heat affected zones in welding; welding defects –
causes and remedies – destructive and nondestructive testing of welds.
UNIT III
MECHANICAL WORKING -1
Hot working; Cold working; Strain hardening; Recovery; Recrystallisation and grain
growth; Comparison of properties of cold and hot worked parts
93
R13
ROLLING
Rolling fundamentals; Theory of rolling; Types of Rolling mills and products; Forces in
rolling and power requirements.
EXTRUSION
Basic extrusion process and its characteristics; Hot extrusion and Cold extrusion;
Forward extrusion and backward extrusion – Impact extrusion; Hydrostatic extrusion;
Extrusion defects.
FORGING PROCESSES
Principles of forging; Tools and dies; Types of Forging; Smith forging; Drop Forging;
Roll forging; Forging hammers; Rotary forging; Forging defects.
UNIT IV
MECHANICAL WORKING -2
Stamping, forming and other cold working processes : Blanking and piercing; Bending
and forming; Drawing and its types; Wire drawing and Tube drawing; Coining; Hot and
cold spinning; Types of presses and press tools; Forces and power requirement in the
above operations.
UNIT V
PLASTIC MATERIALS AND PROCESS
Types of plastics; Compression moulding; Injection moulding; Blow moulding; Film and
Sheet forming; Thermoforming.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Manufacturing Technology by P.N. Rao.
REFERENCES:
1. Production Technology by R.K. Jain.
2. Manufacturing Engineering and Technology by Kalpak Jian S.
3. Process and Materials of Manufacturing by Lindberg/PE.
4. Principles of Metal Castings by Rosenthal.
5. Welding Process by Parmar.
6. Production Technology by Sharma P C.
94
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13AED005) AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING DESIGN-I
Course Prerequisites: Math, Physics, Engineering Mechanics, Solid Mechanics,
Metallurgy & Materials Science
Course Objectives:
• Identify and obtain values of properties of materials and relationship between
them
• Understand the stress, strain and principal stresses as applied to solid bodies
under loads
• Understand the fundamental principles of mechanics for the solution of
automobile engineering components
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to
• Design and analyze automobile components to meet performance
requirements by selecting a concept to pursue, iterating to the final design
• Understood the how to design belt drives, springs, keys, couplings and
flywheels
• Know how to design the different types of gears like spur gear, helical gear,
bevel gear worm gear etc.
UNIT I
ENGINEERING MATERIALS AND DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS
The design phase / methodology and identification of need, evaluation and
presentation, reliability and product liability. Mechanical properties of engineering
materials, overall design considerations, factor of safety, preferred numbers. Standard
and codes, design data handbook, load, stress and critical sections in machine parts.
Static strength, plastic deformation, temperature properties, definition of stress, simple
stress, combined stress, complex stress. Members subjected to axial, bending, torsion
and shear loading and impact stresses.
UNIT II
DESIGN AGAINST FLUCTUATING LOAD
Stress concentration, stress concentration factors, reduction stress concentration,
fluctuating stresses. Fatigue strength, endurance Limit, fatigue test, S-N diagrams for
different structural materials. Low cycle and high cycle fatigue, notch sensitivity, design
for finite and infinite life. Soderberg and Goodman lines the fatigue strength, modified
Goodman theory, Soderberg theory and Gerber theory.
95
R13
UNIT III
BOLTED AND SCREWED JOINTS
Bolted joints, bolted joint under initial loading and eccentrically loaded bolted joints
under different static load conditions.
RIVETED AND WELDED JOINTS
Riveted joints, eccentrically loaded riveted joints, design of boiler riveted joints, and
welding symbols, butt and fillet welds, stress in the welded joints carries tension
bending and shear loading, design of various types of welding joints and eccentrically
loaded welded joints under different static load conditions.
UNIT IV
BELT DRIVES
Introduction, classification of belts, belt materials, design of flat (rectangular) belts, ratio
of belt tensions, V-Belts, power transmitted through V-Belt, design of V-Belts and
timing belts.
SPRINGS:
Classification of springs, spring material, design of helical, leaf, disc and tensional
springs under constant loads and varying loads.
UNIT V
SHAFTS, KEYS AND COUPLINGS
Transmission shafts, design of solid and hollow shafts based on strength, rigidity and
flexible shafts – Key and classification of keys, stresses in the keys and design
considerations. Rigid couplings – Muff, split muff and flange couplings – Bushed - pin
flexible coupling.
FLYWHEELS
Flywheel governor, Flywheel materials, torque analysis, coefficient of fluctuation of
energy, solid disk flywheel, stresses in rimmed flywheel.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Design of Machine Elements by Bhandari; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Mechanical Engineering Design by Shigley J. E and Mischke C. R; Publisher: Tata
McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering design by George E Dieter; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Machine Design - An Integrated Approach by Robert L.Norton; Publisher: Addison
Wesley.
3. Fundamentals of Machine Component Design by Juvinall R. C and Marshek K. M;
Publisher: John Wiley and Sons.
96
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. ME& AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13MED012) HEAT AND MASS TRANSFER
Course Prerequisites: Basic integral and differential calculus, thermodynamics
Course Objectives:
• To understand different modes of heat transfer in physical environment under
various conditions
• To develop the equations governing the phenomena of heat transfer
• To apply these equations to analyze problems by making good assumptions
and solve practical heat transfer problems
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Explain any physical heat transfer phenomena into simpler phenomena
• Apply fundamental knowledge of mathematics to modeling and analysis of
simple heat and mass transfer phenomena with proper initial and boundary
conditions
• Use the devices that transfer heat and measure their efficiency
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Modes and mechanisms of heat transfer - Basic laws of heat transfer - Simple general
discussion about applications of heat transfer. Conduction Heat Transfer: Fourier heat
conduction equation - General heat conduction equation in Cartesian, Cylindrical and
Spherical coordinates - simplification and forms of the field equation steady, unsteady
and periodic heat transfer - Initial and boundary conditions.
UNIT II
ONE DIMENSIONAL STEADY STATE CONDUCTION HEAT TRANSFER
Homogeneous slabs, hollow cylinders and sphere - overall heat transfer coefficient -
electrical analogy - Critical radius of insulation - variable Thermal conductivity -
systems with heat sources or Heat generation - extended surfaces and fins. One
Dimensional Transient Conduction Heat Transfer: Systems with negligible internal
resistance - chart solutions of transient conduction systems.
UNIT III
CONVECTIVE HEAT TRANSFER
Classification of systems based on causation of flow, condition of flow, configuration of
flow and medium of flow - Dimensional analysis as a tool for experimental investigation
- Concepts about hydrodynamic and thermal boundary layers - Buckingham Pi-
Theorem and method, application for developing Semi - empirical non-dimensional
correlation for convection heat transfer - Significance of non -dimensional numbers -
97
R13
use of empirical correlations for convective heat transfer- Forced Convection: Flat
plates and horizontal pipes. Free Convection: Vertical plates and pipes.
UNIT IV
HEAT TRANSFER WITH PHASE CHANGE
Heat transfer with boiling - pool boiling and film boiling - boiling curve for pool boiling -
simple correlations for pool boiling - Condensation plates heat transfer: film wise and
drop wise condensation - film condensation on vertical and horizontal cylinders using
empirical correlations.
RADIATION HEAT TRANSFER
Emission characteristics and laws of black-body radiation - incident radiation - total and
monochromatic quantities -laws of Planck, Wien, Kirchoff, Lambert, Stefan and
Boltzmann - heat exchange between two black bodies -concepts of shape factor -
emissivity - heat exchange between grey bodies - radiation shields - electrical analogy
for radiation net works.
UNIT V
HEAT EXCHANGERS
Classification of heat exchangers - overall and fouling resistance - problems using
LMTD and NTU methods.
INTRODUCTION TO MASS TRANSFER
Analogy between heat, mass and momentum transfer - classification: Diffusion and
convective mass transfer processes - Examples - Fick's Law of diffusion simple
problems for steady state molecular diffusion - Convection mass transfer coefficient -
non-dimensional numbers of mass transfer analogous to convection heat transfer
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Fundamentals of Engineering Heat and Mass Transfer by R.C. Sachdeva;
Publisher: New Age International.
2. Heat and Mass Transfer Data book by C.P. Kothandaraman; Publisher: New Age.
REFERENCES:
1. Heat Transfer by OZSIK.
2. Heat Transfer by HOLMAN.
3. Heat Transfer by Sukhatme; Publisher: University Press.
4. Heat and Mass Transfer by D. S. Kumar.
5. Fundamentals of Heat & Mass Transfer by Incopera & Dewitt.
98
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. AE I SEM L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13AED008) VEHICLE DYNAMICS
Course Prerequisites: Basic Integral and differential Calculus, Vectors, Engineering
Mechanics
Course Objectives:
• Understand the dynamic model and the influence of parameter changes in
Vehicle component design
• Understand the Vehicle stability
• Understand the rolling resistance, drag, noise and vehicle vibration
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to
• Write mathematical models of vehicle road dynamics
• Recognize the effect of the tyre forces and characteristics on the vehicle
dynamics
• Calculate aerodynamic effects for different types of vehicle
• Know the sources of vehicle vibration and minimizing it by proper design
UNIT I
TYRE AND RIM FUNDAMENTALS
Tyres and sidewall information, tyre components, radial and non-radial tyres, tread,
wheel and rim and vehicle classifications.
TYRE DYNAMICS
Tyre coordinate frame and tyre force system, tyre stiffness, tyre print forces, effective
radius, rolling resistance, longitudinal, lateral, camber and tyre forces.
UNIT II
ONE-DIMENSIONAL VEHICLE DYNAMICS
Parked car on a level and an inclined road, accelerating car on a level and an inclined
road, parked car on a banked road, optimal drive and brake force distribution and
vehicles with more than two axles.
DRIVELINE DYNAMICS
Engine dynamics, driveline and efficiency, gearbox and clutch dynamics and gearbox
design.
UNIT III
VEHICLE DYNAMICS: APPLIED DYNAMICS
Force and moment, rigid body translational and rotational dynamics, mass moment of
inertia matrix, Lagrange’s form of Newton’s equations of motion, Lagrangian
mechanics.
99
R13
VEHICLE PLANAR DYNAMICS
Vehicle coordinate frame, rigid vehicle Newton-Euler dynamics, force system acting on
a rigid vehicle, two-wheel rigid vehicle dynamics and steady-state turning.
UNIT IV
VEHICLE ROLL DYNAMICS
Vehicle Coordinate and DOF, equations of motion, vehicle force system, two wheel
rigid vehicle dynamics, steady state motion and time response.
UNIT V
VIBRATIONS
Free vibration of mass attached to a vertical spring, simple problems on forced damped
vibration, vibration isolation and transmissibility, whirling of shafts, critical speeds,
torsional vibrations, two and three rotor systems.
VEHICLE VIBRATIONS
Lagrange method and dissipation function, natural frequencies and mode shapes,
bicycle car and body pitch mode, half car and body roll mode, full car vibrating model
natural frequencies using sweeping matrix and orthogonality principle, Holzer's method
for systems with free, fixed free and fixed ends.
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Vehicle Dynamics Theory and Application by Reza N. Jazar, Springer Int. Edition.
2. Mechanical Vibration -By G.K.Grover, Nernchand& Brothers.
REFERENCES:
1. Vehicle Refinment Controlling Noise and Vibration in Road Vehicle By. Matthew
Harrison Elsevier, Yes Dee Publishing Ltd.
2. Theory & Problems of Mechanical Vibration -By William W. Seto, McGrawHill.
3. Problems in Automobile Mechanics-By N. K. Giri, Khanna Pub.
4. Mechanics of Pneumatic Tyre -By S. K. Clark, Prentice Hall.
5. Mechanical Vibration Analysis -By P Srinivasan, TMH.
6. Mechanical Vibration -By Church. Wife International.
7. Vibration Theory & Applications -By William I Thomson, Prentice Hall.
100
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13AED102) HEAT TRANSFER AND RAC LAB
Course Prerequisites: Heat and mass transfer, thermodynamics
Course Objectives:
• Understand various modes of heat transfer experimentally
• Understand calculations of heat transfer co-efficient in difference systems
• Understand factors affecting the heat transfer rate
• Understand the working and performance of refrigeration and air-conditioning
units
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Find out critical thickness of insulation to minimize heat lost
• Build a simple heat exchanger which gives better cooling
• Come up with innovative idea to build compact heat transfer device
• Diagnose the simple problems on refrigeration and air-conditioning systems
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS (any ten experiments)
1. Thermal conductivity of given metal rod
2. Stefan Boltzmann apparatus
3. Critical heat flux apparatus
4. Composite wall overall heat transfer co-efficient.
5. Heat transfer through lagged pipe.
6. Heat transfer in forced convection apparatus
7. Heat transfer in natural convection
8. Thermal conductivity of insulation powder
9. Parallel and counter flow heat exchanger
10. Emissivity apparatus
11. Study of heat pipe and its demonstration
12. Heat transfer in pin-fin
13. Heat transfer in drop and film wise condensation
14. Performance test on air conditioning test rig
15. Performance test on refrigeration test rig
101
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. ME& AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED109) PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY LAB
Course Prerequisite: Production Technology.
Course Objectives:
• Understand and evaluate casting techniques and sand properties
• Understand different welding processes and their use
• Understand different press working operations and plastic moulding
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Produce sand moulds for a casting
• Weld different materials using appropriate process
• Make objects by press operations and mould plastic components
Minimum 12 exercises to be performed from the following
METAL CASTING
1. Pattern Design and making - for one casting drawing.
2. Sand properties testing - Exercise -for strengths, and permeability – 1
3. Moulding Melting and Casting - 1 Exercise
WELDING
1. Arc Welding Lap and Butt Joint - 2 Exercises
2. Spot Welding - 1 Exercise
3. TIG Welding - 1 Exercise
4. MIG Welding - 1 Exercise
5. Plasma welding and Brazing - 2 Exercises
MECHANICAL PRESS WORKING
1. Blanking and Piercing operation and study of simple, compound and progressive
press tool.
2. Hydraulic Press: Deep drawing and extrusion operation.
3. Bending and other operations
PROCESSING OF PLASTICS
1. Injection Moulding
2. Blow Moulding
102
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. ME & AE II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13CMS001) BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND FINANCIAL ACCOUNTANCY
Course Objectives:
• To explain different forms of organizing private and public sector business
enterprises and to analyze the significance of Business Economics in solving
the problems of business enterprise. Also to define and analyze the concepts
of Demand, Elasticity of Demand and Demand Forecasting Methods
• To analyze the various types of costs and to determine the level of output at
which there is neither profit nor loss. To estimate capital requirements and to
describe various sources of mobilizing funds. Also to identify least cost
combinations of inputs produce desired quantity of output
• To describe the features of different market structure and pricing strategies
• To explain the basic accounting concepts and conventions. To elaborate the
importance of finance function for evaluating the economic status of a
business unit
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Select the suitable form of business organization which meets the
requirement of selected business also perform decision – making function
effectively in an uncertain frame work by applying concepts of Managerial
Economics. Meet and manipulate the demand efficiently and plan the future
course of action
• Apply right kind cost to reduce cost by paying attention towards the costs
which can be reduced. Take decision whether to buy or produce? Reduce the
cost of capital by selecting best source of fund mobilization and select best
investment opportunity which yields higher rate of return
• Fix the right price which can best meets the predetermined objectives of the
business firm under different market conditions. Able to select best
combination of inputs to produce required quantity of output
• Prepare books of accounts and know over all financial position of the
business enterprise which enables the concerned to take appropriate
measures to improve the situation. Also interpret the financial position from
difference angles and initiates the measures/ efforts in that direction
103
R13
UNIT I
BUSINESS AND NEW ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
Characteristic features of business; Features and evaluation of sole proprietorship;
Partnership; Joint stock company; Public enterprises and their types; Changing
business environment in post- liberalization scenario.
UNIT II
INTRODUCTION TO BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND DEMAND ANALYSIS
Definition; Nature and scope of managerial economics - demand analysis
determinants; Law of demand and its exceptions.
ELASTICITY OF DEMAND AND DEMAND FORECASTING
Definition; Types; Measurement and significance of elasticity of demand; Demand
forecasting; Factors governing demand forecasting; Methods of demand forecasting -
Survey methods, statistical methods, Expert opinion method, Test marketing,
Controlled experiments, and Judgmental approach to demand forecasting.
UNIT III
COST ANALYSIS
Cost concepts - Opportunity cost, Fixed vs. Variable costs, Explicit costs vs. Implicit
costs, and Out of pocket costs vs. Imputed costs; Break-even analysis (BEA) -
determination of break-even point (simple problems), managerial significance, and
limitations of BEA.
CAPITAL AND CAPITAL BUDGETING
Capital and its significance; Types of capital; Estimation of fixed and working capital
requirements; Methods and sources of raising finance.
Nature and scope of capital budgeting; Features of capital budgeting proposals;
Methods of capital budgeting - payback method, Accounting Rate of Return (ARR), and
Net Present Value method (simple problems)
UNIT IV
THEORY OF PRODUCTION
Production function - isoquants and isocosts, least cost combination of inputs, and laws
of returns; Internal and external economies of scale.
MARKET STRUCTURES
Types of competition; Features of perfect competition, Monopoly, and Monopolistic
competition; Price-output determination in case of perfect competition and Monopoly.
PRICING POLICIES AND METHODS
Cost plus pricing; Marginal cost pricing; Sealed bid pricing; Going rate pricing, Limit
pricing, Market skimming pricing, Penetration pricing, Two-part pricing, Block pricing,
Bundling pricing, Peak load pricing, Cross subsidization.
UNIT V
INTRODUCTION TO FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING
Double-entry book keeping; Journal; Ledger; Trial balance; Final accounts - trading
account, profit and loss account, and balance sheet with simple adjustments.
104
R13
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS THROUGH RATIOS
Computation; Analysis and interpretation of liquidity ratios - current ratios, and quick
ratio; Activity ratios - Inventory Turnover ratio, and Debtor Turnover ratio; Capital
structure ratios – Debt-Equity ratio, and Interest Coverage Ratio; Profitability ratios -
Gross profit Ratio, Net Profit Ratio, Operating Ratio, P/E ratio, and EPs.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Managerial Economics and Financial Analysis by Aryasri, Tata McGraw Hill, 2009.
2. Managerial Economics by Varshney & Maheswari, Sultan Chand, 2009.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Financial Accounting for Management: An analytical perspective by Ambrish
Gupta, Pearson Education, 2010.
2. Managerial Economics by H. Craig Peterson & W. Cris Lewis, Prentice Hall of
India.
105
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. AE II sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13AED006) AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING DESIGN – II
Course Prerequisites: Mechanics of Materials, Basic Engineering Design, Material
science and Technical Drawing
Course Objectives:
• Understand the theoretical and practical skills to model and design machine
elements
• Understand the techniques to assemble components into simple mechanical
systems
• Understand the failure analysis of various materials under static and dynamic
loading conditions
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to
• Design and analyze simple machine components gears, shafts and bearings
• Determine when a component will fail statically given loading conditions
• Determine when a component will fail under dynamic conditions given loading
and life requirements
UNIT I
BEARINGS
Types of Journal bearings, lubrication, bearing modulus, full and partial bearings,
clearance ratio, heat dissipation of bearings, bearing materials, journal bearing design,
ball and roller bearings, static loading of ball and roller bearings, bearing life and
bearing selection.
UNIT II
ENGINE PARTS
Pistons, forces acting on piston, construction, design and proportions of piston, cylinder
and cylinder liners.
CONNECTING ROD
Thrust in connecting rod, stress due to whipping action on connecting rod ends, cranks
and crank shafts, strength and proportions of over hung and overview of center cranks;
crank pins and crank shafts.
DESIGN OF VEHICLE GEAR BOX
3-Speed gear box, 4-speed gear box and steering gear mechanism design.
UNIT III
DESIGN OF CURVED BEAMS
Introduction, stresses in curved beams, expression for radius of neutral axis for
rectangular, circular, trapezoidal and T-Section. Design of crane hooks and C –clamps.
106
R13
POWER TRANSMISSIONS SYSTEMS, PULLEYS
Transmission of power by belt and rope drives, transmission efficiencies, belts – flat
and v types, ropes, pulleys for belt and rope drives, materials and chain drives.
UNIT IV
SPUR AND HELICAL GEAR DRIVES
Spur gears, helical gears, load concentration factor, dynamic load factor, surface
compressive strength, bending strength, design analysis of spur gears, estimation of
centre distance, module and face width, check for plastic deformation and check for
dynamic and wear considerations.
UNIT V
CLUTCHES
Torque transmitting capacity, multi-disk clutches, friction materials, cone clutches,
centrifugal clutches, energy equation and thermal considerations.
BRAKES
Energy equations, block break with short shoe, block break and pivoted block break
with long shoe, internal expanding break, band breaks, disk brakes and thermal
considerations.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Machine Design by V. Bhandari; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Machine Design by R. L. Norton.
REFERENCES:
1. Mechanics of Materials (SI Units) by Beer & Johnson; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Data Books: P.S.G. College of Technology.
3. Mechanical Engineering Design by J. E. Shigley.
4. Machine Design by R. S. Khurmi & J. S. Gupta; Publisher: Sultan Chand.
5. Machine Design (SI Units) by Schaums Outline Series; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
107
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. AE II SEM L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13AED007) MACHINE TOOLS AND METROLOGY
Course Prerequisites: Physics and Theory of Machines
Course Objectives:
• Understand the basic concepts like elementary treatment of metal cutting
theory
• Understand working principles of different machines tools and their
applications
• Understand the basic concepts of limits and fits, tolerances, selective
assembly and interchangeability
• Understand working principles of various linear, angular, taper, screw thread,
flat surface, surface roughness and optical measuring devices
Course Outcomes:
Students should be able to
• Apply elementary knowledge of metal cutting to modeling and analysis of
cutting forces, power in machining process
• Work on various machine tools to produce components
• Working with various measuring devices to measure linear, angular and
surface texture measurements
UNIT I
THEORY OF METAL CUTTING THEORY
Elements of cutting process, classification of cutting tools, geometry of single point tool,
orthogonal cutting, chip formation and types of chips, force relationships (Merchant’s
force circle), velocity relationships, cutting speeds, feed, depth of cut, tool wear and
tool life, coolants, machinability and tool materials.
ENGINE LATHE
Principle of working, classification of lathes, lathe specifications, parts of lathe, work
holders, tool holders, lathe attachments, operations performed and machining time.
TURRET AND CAPSTAN LATHES - Principal features.
AUTOMATIC LATHES - Classification and principal features.
UNIT II
MILLING MACHINE
Principle of working, classification of milling machines, specifications, principal features
of horizontal, vertical and universal milling machines, milling cutters, operations
performed, indexing and machining time.
108
R13
SHAPING, SLOTTING AND PLANNING MACHINES
Principle of working, principal parts, specification, classifications, operations performed
and machining time.
DRILLING AND BORING MACHINES
Principle of working, principal parts, specification, classifications and operations
performed.
UNIT III
GRINDING MACHINE
Fundamentals, classification of grinding machine, cylindrical and surface grinding
machine, tool and cutter grinding machine, different types of abrasives, bonds
specification of a grinding wheel and selection of a grinding wheel.
INTRODUCTION TO LAPPING, HONING AND BROACHING MACHINES -
COMPARISON TO GRINDING.
INTRODUCTION TO JIGS AND FIXTURES.
SYSTEMS OF LIMITS AND FITS:
Introduction, normal size, tolerance limits, deviations, allowance, fits and their types -
unilateral and bilateral tolerance system, hole and shaft basis systems -
Interchangeability and selective assembly.
INTRODUCTION TO STANDARD SYSTEMS.
LINEAR MEASUREMENT:
Length standard, line and end standard, slip gauges, gauges, dial indicator, vernier
caliper and micrometer.
MEASUREMENT OF ANGLES AND TAPERS:
Different methods – Bevel protractor, angle slip gauges, spirit levels and sine bar.
FLAT SURFACE MEASUREMENT:
Measurement of flat surfaces, instruments used, straight edges and surface plates.
UNIT IV
LIMIT GAUGES:
Taylor’s principle – Design of GO and NO GO gauges, plug, ring, snap, gap and taper
gauges.
SURFACE ROUGHNESS MEASUREMENT:
Differences between surface roughness and surface waviness, numerical assessment
of surface finish, CLA, Ra, R.M.S Values, Rz Values, methods of measurement of
surface finish, profilograph and ISI symbols for Indication of surface finish.
OPTICAL MEASURING INSTRUMENTS:
Tool maker’s microscope and its uses, autocollimators, optical projector and optical
flat.
INTRODUCTION TO MEASUREMENT THROUGH COMPARATORS
UNIT V
SCREW THREAD MEASUREMENT:
Element of measurement, errors in screw threads, measurement of effective diameter,
angle of thread and thread pitch.
109
R13
GEAR MEASUREMENT:
Gear measuring instruments, gear tooth profile, measurement of diameter, pitch,
pressure angle and tooth thickness.
INTRODUCTION TO MACHINE TOOL ALIGNMENTS TESTS
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Production Technology by R.K. Jain and S.C. Gupta.
2. Engineering Metrology by Mahajan.
REFERENCES:
1. Manufacturing Technology (Volume 2) - Metal Cutting and Machine Tools by P N
Rao, Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Manufacturing Engineering and Technology by Kalpakjian, Wesley.
3. Elements of Workshop Technology Vol. I and II, by Hajara Chowdhary, Indian
Book Distributors, Calcutta.
4. Production Technology by H.M.T. (Hindustan Machine Tools).
5. Engineering Metrology by R.K. Jain, Khanna Publishers.
6. Precision Engineering in Manufacturing by RL Murthy, New Age.
110
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. ME& AE II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13EIE080) INSTRUMENTATION AND CONTROL SYSTEMS
Course Objectives:
• To provide basic knowledge in transduction principles, sensors and
transducer technology and measurement systems
• To provide better familiarity with the Theoretical and Practical concepts of
automation in industries
• To provide familiarity with different sensors and their application in real time
applications
• To provide the knowledge of various measurement methods of industrial
parameters like velocity, acceleration, torque, pressure, flow, temperature
etc. and control of the same
Course Outcomes:
After completing this course the student will be
• Able to know instrumentation system used in the industry
• Able to appreciate the automation with the help of instrumentation
• Able to understand the experimental applications and selecting appropriate
engineering modules
• Able to develop aptitude for self-learning and modern technical skills beyond
the curriculum
UNIT I
Definition – Basic principles of measurement – Measurement systems, static
characteristics.
MEASUREMENT OF DISPLACEMENT
Theory and construction of various transducers to measure displacement-Piezo
electric, Inductive, capacitance, resistance, ionization and Photo electric transducers.
MEASUREMENT OF SPEED
Mechanical Tachometers – Electrical tachometers – Stroboscope, Noncontact type of
tachometer.
MEASUREMENT OF ACCELERATION AND VIBRATION
Different simple instruments – Principles of Seismic instruments – Vibrometer and
accelerometer using this principle.
UNIT II
STRESS STRAIN MEASUREMENTS
Various types of stress and strain measurements – electrical strain gauge – gauge
factor – method of usage of resistance strain gauge for bending compressive and
tensile strains – usage for measuring torque, Strain gauge Rosettes.
111
R13
MEASUREMENT OF HUMIDITY
Moisture content of gases, Sling psychrometer, Absorption psychrometer, Dew point
meter.
MEASUREMENT OF FORCE, TORQUE AND POWER
Elastic force meters, load cells, Torsion meters, Dynamometers.
UNIT III
MEASUREMENT OF TEMPERATURE
Classification – Ranges – Various Principles of measurement– Expansion, Electrical
Resistance – Thermistor – Thermocouple – Pyrometers – Temperature Indicators.
MEASUREMENT OF PRESSURE
Units – classification – different principles used. Manometers, Piston, Bourdon
pressure gauges, Bellows – Diaphragm gauges. Low pressure measurement –
Thermal conductivity gauges – ionization pressure gauges, McLeod pressure gauge.
MEASUREMENT OF LEVEL
Direct method – Indirect methods – capacitative, ultrasonic, magnetic, cryogenic fuel
level indicators – Bubler level indicators.
FLOW MEASUREMENT
Rotameter, magnetic, Ultrasonic, Turbine flow meter, Hot – wire anemometer, Laser
Doppler Anemometer (LDA).
UNIT IV
INTRODUCTION TO CONTROL SYSTEMS
Introduction - basic components of a control system, control-system applications, open-
loop control systems (without feed-back systems), and closed-loop control systems
(with feedback systems); Example of open loop and closed loop systems. Feedback
and its effects - effect of feedback on overall gain, effect of feedback on stability, and
effect of feedback on external disturbance or noise; Classification of systems, nonlinear
characteristics of systems.
UNIT V
SYSTEM MODELING:
Transfer function (TF) Block diagram (BD) reduction techniques, Signal flow
graph(SFG), BD to TF, TF to BD, TF to SFG, SFG to TF conversions, Mathematical
Modeling of systems in translational and rotational motions, Analogy between different
types of systems like electrical, mechanical, pneumatic & hydraulic, DC motor transfer
function, signal flow graph, Working of Potentiometer, tachometer, servo motors,
synchros.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Measurement Systems: Applications & design by D. S. Kumar.
2. Mechanical Measurements by Beckwith, Marangoni & Linehard; Publisher:
Prentice Hall International/Pearson Education.
112
R13
REFERENCES:
1. Measurement systems: Application and Design, Doeblin Earnest. O. Adaptation
by Manik and Dhanesh; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Instrumentation and Control systems by S. Bhaskar; Publisher: Anuradha
Agencies.
3. Experimental Methods for Engineers by Holman.
4. Mechanical and Industrial Measurements by R.K. Jain; Publisher: Khanna.
5. Instrumentation & Mechanical Measurements by A.K. Tayal; Publisher: Galgotia.
6. Instrumentation, Measurement & Analysis by B. C. Nakra & K. K. Choudhary,
Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
7. Mechanical Measurements by Sahani.
113
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. ME & AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective I (Open) 3 1 3
(13CED037) DISASTER MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives:
Student will be able to
• Understand the difference between a hazard and disaster
• Know about various disasters and their impacts
• Understand Different approaches of disaster risk reduction
• Understand Disaster risks in India
Course Outcomes:
Students should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge disaster Management
• Understand the vulnerability of ecosystem and infrastructure due to a disaster
• Acquire the knowledge of Disaster Management Phases
• Understand the hazard and vulnerability profile of India
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO DISASTER
Concepts and definitions (Disaster, Hazard, Vulnerability, Resilience, Risks)
UNIT II
DISASTERS: CLASSIFICATIONS, CAUSES, IMPACTS
(including social, economic, political, environment, health, psychosocial, etc.)
Differential impacts-in terms of caste, class, gender, age, location, disability Global
trends in disasters. Urban disaster, pandemics, complex emergencies, Climate change
UNIT III
APPROACHES TO DISASTER RISK REDUCTION
Disaster cycle-its analysis, phase, Culture of safety, prevention, mitigation and
preparedness, community based DRR, Structural measures, roles and responsibilities
of community. Panchayati Raj Institutions/Urban Local Bodies (PRIs/ULBs), states,
center and other stake-holders.
UNIT IV
INTER-RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN DISASTER AND DEVELOPMENT
Factors affecting Vulnerabilities, differential impacts, impact of development projects
such as dams, embankments, change in land-use etc. Climate change Adaption.
Relevance of indigenous knowledge, appropriate technology and local resources.
UNIT V
DISASTER RISK MANAGEMENT IN INDIA
Hazard and vulnerability profile of India
114
R13
Components of Disaster relief: Water, food, sanitation, shelter, health, waste
management
Institutional arrangements (Mitigation, Response and Preparedness, DM Act Policy,
Other related polices, plan, programmes and legislation)
PROJECT WORK :( FIELD WORK, CASE STUDIES)
The project/fieldwork is meant for students to understand vulnerabilities and to work on
reducing disaster risks and to build a culture of safety. Projects must be conceived
creatively based on the geographic location and hazard.
SUGGESTED READING LIST:
1. Alexander David, Introduction in ‘Confronting Catastrophe’, oxford University
press, 2000.
2. Andharia J. Vulnerability in disaster Discourse, JTCDM, Tata Institute of Social
Sciences working paper no.8, 2008.
3. Blaikie, P, Cannon T, Davis I, Wisner B 1997. At Risk Natural Hazards, Peoples’
Vulnerability and Disaster, Rutledge.
4. Coppola P Damon, 2007. Introduction to International Disaster Management.
5. Carter, Nick 1991.Disaster Management: A Disaster Manager’s Handbook. Asian
Development Bank, Manila Philippines.
6. Cuny,F.1983. Development and Disasters, Oxford University Press.
7. Govt. of India; Disaster Management Act 2005,Government of India, New Delhi.
115
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. ME & AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective I (Open) 3 1 3
(13CSE016) INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
Course Objectives:
This course is designed
• To make students familiar with Intellectual Property Rights
• To understand innovations in engineering and other domains
• To be familiar with patents, copyrights and various acts related to innovations
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able
• To define various terms related to Intellectual Property Rights
• To understand the process of patent, copyrights and related procedures
• To analyse the situation of IPR in the Indian context with that of global
scenario
• To understand the patenting process through various case studies
UNIT I
Introduction – Invention and Creativity – Intellectual Property (IP) – Importance –
Protection of IPR – Basic types of property i. Movable Property ii. Immovable Property
and iii.Intellectual Property.
UNIT II
IP – Patents – Copyrights and related rights – Trade Marks and rights arising from
Trademark registration – Definitions – Industrial Designs and Integrated circuits –
Protection of Geographical Indications at national and International levels – Application
Procedures..
UNIT III
International convention relating to Intellectual Property – Establishment of WIPO –
Mission and Activities – History – General Agreement on Trade and Tariff (GATT).
UNIT IV
Indian Position Vs WTO and Strategies – Indian IPR legislations – commitments to
WTO-Patent Ordinance and the Bill – Draft of a national Intellectual Property Policy –
Present against unfair competition.
UNIT V
Case Studies on – Patents (Basumati rice, turmeric, Neem, etc.) – Copyright and
related rights – Trade Marks – Industrial design and Integrated circuits – Geographic
indications – Protection against unfair competition.
116
R13
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Subbaram N.R. “Handbook of Indian Patent Law and Practice “, S. Viswanathan
Printers and Publishers Pvt. Ltd., 1998.
REFERENCES:
1. P. Narayanan; Law of Copyright and Industrial Designs; Eastern law House, Delhi,
2010.
2. Prabhuddha Ganguli: ‘ Intellectual Property Rights” Tata Mc-Graw –Hill, New
Delhi.
3. M.Ashok Kumar and Mohd.Iqbal Ali: “Intellectual Property Right” Serials Pub.
117
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. ME& AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective I (Open) 3 1 3
(13ITD005) JAVA PROGRAMMING
Course Objectives:
On completion, students will be able
• To produce object-oriented solutions to a range of standard programming
problems
• They will be able to articulate and restructure programming objectives in the
object- oriented paradigm
• They will be informed with regard to the fundamental concepts and principles
of object-oriented programming
• They will be able to apply these concepts in any programming language
Course Outcomes (LO):
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to
• Design/Develop Program
• Implement Program
• Test Program
• Validate Program
UNIT I
FUNDAMENTALS OF OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING
Object oriented paradigm - Basic concepts of Object Oriented Programming - Benefits
of OOP - Applications of OOP
JAVA EVOLUTION
Java Features - How Java differs from C and C++ - Java and Internet - Java and World
Wide Web - Web Browsers - Hardware and Software Requirements - Java
Environment. Overview of Java Language: Simple Java Program - Java Program
Structure - Java Tokens- Java Statements - Implementing a Java Program - Java
Virtual Machine - Constants - Variables - Data types - Scope of Variables-Symbolic
Constants-Type Casting and type promotions – Operators, Operator Precedence and
Associativity - Control Statements – break - continue- Arrays-Multi dimensional arrays,
Wrapper Classes - Simple examples.
UNIT II
CLASSES
Classes and Objects - Constructors – methods - this keyword – garbage collection-
finalize - Overloading methods and constructors - Access Control- Static members –
nested and inner classes – command line arguments - variable length arguments.
INHERITANCE
Forms of inheritance – specialization, specification, construction, extension, limitation,
combination, benefits and costs of inheritance. Super uses- final - polymorphism,
118
R13
method overriding - dynamic method dispatch –abstract classes – exploring string
class.
UNIT III
PACKAGES AND INTERFACES
Defining and accessing a package – understanding CLASSPATH – access protection
importing packages – Interfaces - Defining and implementing an interface, Applying
interfaces, Variables in interfaces and extended interfaces. Exploring java.lang and
java.util packages.
Exception Handling-Fundamentals, usage of try, catch, multiple catch clauses, throw,
throws and finally. Java Built in Exceptions and creating own exception subclasses.
UNIT IV
MULTITHREADED PROGRAMMING
Java Thread life cycle model – Thread creation - Thread Exceptions - Thread Priority –
Synchronization - Messaging - Runnable Interface - Interthread Communication -
Deadlock - Suspending, Resuming and stopping threads.
I/O STREAMS
File – Streams – Advantages - The stream classes – Byte streams – Character
streams.
Networks basics: Socket Programming - Proxy Servers - TCP/IP Sockets - Net
Address - URL - Datagram’s.
UNIT V
APPLET PROGRAMMING
How Applets differ from Applications - Applet Life Cycle - Creating an Applet - Running
the Applet- Designing a Webpage - Applet Tag - Adding Applet to HTML file - More
about Applet Tag - Passing parameters to Applets - Aligning the display.
EVENT HANDLING
Basics of event handling, Event classes, Event Listeners, delegation event model,
handling mouse and keyboard events, adapter classes, AWT Class hierarchy - AWT
Controls - Layout Managers and Menus, limitations of AWT, Swing, MVC architecture,
components, containers, exploring swing.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. The Complete Reference Java J2SE 5th Edition, Herbert Schildt, TMH Publishing
Company Ltd, New Delhi.
2. Big Java 2nd Edition, Cay Horstmann, John Wiley and Sons.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Java How to Program, Sixth Edition, H.M.Dietel and P.J.Dietel, Pearson
Education/PHI.
2. Core Java 2, Vol 1, Fundamentals, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell, Seventh
Edition, Pearson Education.
3. Core Java 2, Vol 2, Advanced Features, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell,
Seventh Edition, Pearson Education.
119
R13
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech. ME&AE II SEM L T/P/D C
Elective I (Open) 3 1 3
(13AED010) MODERN AUTOMOBILE TECHNOLOGIES
Course Prerequisites: Physics, Basic Electrical Engineering
Course Objectives:
• Understand the basics of automobile engineering without any previous
knowledge regarding automobiles
• Understand the difference between IC engine vehicle and HEV/EV
• Appreciate the current technologies in the automobile industry
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to
• Apply fundamental knowledge of automobile engineering for design of safety
systems like airbags, ABS etc.
• Apply fundamental knowledge of automobile engineering for design of
comfort systems like power steering, collapsible and tiltable steering column,
power windows, etc.
• Gain the knowledge of HEV/EVs and their trouble shooting
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Basic layout of an automobile with reference to power plant, power required for
propulsion, various resistances to motion of the automobile, types of tyres, basic
steering systems, brakes, necessity of brake, two and three wheelers - Classification of
two and three wheelers.
UNIT II
ELECTRIC VEHICLES
Layout of an electric vehicle, performance of electric vehicles, traction motor
characteristics, tractive effort and transmission requirements.
UNIT III
HYBRID VEHICLES
Concepts of hybrid electric drive train, types, architecture of series and parallel hybrid
electric drive train, merits and demerits, series and parallel hybrid electric drive train
design.
UNIT IV
SAFETY SYSTEMS
Airbags, seat belt tightening system, collision warning systems, child lock, anti-lock
braking systems, anti - spin regulation and traction control systems.
120
R13
TELEMATICS
Global positioning systems, geographical information systems, navigation systems,
automotive vision system, road recognition and driver assistance systems.
UNIT V
SECURITY SYSTEMS
Anti theft technologies, smart card system and number plate coding.
COMFORT SYSTEMS
Active suspension systems, requirement and characteristics, different types, power
steering, collapsible and tiltable steering column and power windows.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Modern Electric, Hybrid Electric and Fuel Cell Vehicles: Fundamentals, Theory
and Design, Mehrdad Ehsani, Yimin Gao, Sebastian E. Gay and Ali Emadi, CRS
Press, 2004.
REFERENCES:
1. Automotive Hand Book, Robert Bosch, SAE, 5th edition, 2000.
2. Intelligent Vehicle Technologies Ljubo Vlacic, Michel Parent and Fumio
Harashima, “”, Butterworth-Heinemann publications, Oxford, 2001.
3. Navigation and Intelligent Transportation Systems – Progress in Technology
Ronald K Jurgen, “”, Automotive Electronics Series, SAE, USA, 1998.
121
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. ME & AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective I (Open) 3 1 3
(13MED020) NON CONVENTIONAL ENERGY SOURCES
Course Prerequisites: Thermodynamics, Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer
Course Objectives:
• Understand about different types of Non Conventional Energy Sources
• Understand about different equipments used in generation of energy
• Understand about design and fabrication of equipments for collection and
conversion of energy
Course Objective:
Students will be able to
• Select any Non Conventional Energy Source equipment and apply concept of
heat transfer and obtain the results
• Able to design a wind mill
• Able to design a solar collector for different applications
UNIT I
PRINCIPLES OF RENEWABLE ENERGY
Introduction; Energy and sustainable development; Fundamentals; Scientific principles
of renewable energy; Technical implications; Social implications.
PRINCIPLES OF SOLAR RADIATION
the solar energy option, Environmental impact of solar power, physics of the sun, the
solar constant, extraterrestrial and terrestrial solar radiation, solar radiation on titled
surface, instruments for measuring solar radiation and sun shine, solar radiation data.
UNIT II
SOLAR ENERGY COLLECTION
Flat plate and concentrating collectors, classification of concentrating collectors,
orientation and thermal analysis, advanced collectors.
SOLAR ENERGY STORAGE AND APPLICATIONS
Different methods, Sensible, latent heat and stratified storage, solar ponds. Solar
Applications- solar heating/cooling technique, solar distillation and drying, photovoltaic
energy conversion.
UNIT III
WIND ENERGY
Sources and potentials, horizontal and vertical axis windmills, performance
characteristics, Betz criteria
BIO-MASS
Principles of Bio-Conversion, Anaerobic/aerobic digestion, types of Bio-gas digesters,
gas yield, combustion characteristics of bio-gas, utilization for cooking, I.C.Engine
operation and economic aspects.
122
R13
UNIT IV
GEOTHERMAL ENERGY
Resources, types of wells, methods of harnessing the energy, potential in India.
OCEAN ENERGY
OTEC, Principles utilization, setting of OTEC plants, thermodynamic cycles. Tidal and
wave energy: Potential and conversion techniques, mini-hydel power plants, and their
economics.
UNIT V
DIRECT ENERGY CONVERSION
Need for DEC, Carnot cycle, limitations, principles of DEC. Thermo-electric generators,
Seebeck, Peltier and Joul Thomson effects, Figure of merit, materials, applications,
MHD generators, principles, dissociation and ionization, hall effect, magnetic flux, MHD
accelerator, MHD Engine, power generation systems, electron gas dynamic
conversion, economic aspects. Fuel cells, principles, faraday’s law’s, thermodynamic
aspects, selection of fuels and operating conditions.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Renewable energy resources/ Tiwari and Ghosal/ Narosa.
2. Non-Conventional Energy Sources /G.D. Rai.
REFERENCES:
1. Renewable Energy Sources /Twidell & Weir.
2. Solar Power Engineering / B.S Magal Frank Kreith & J.F Kreith.
3. Principles of Solar Energy / Frank Krieth & John F Kreider.
4. Non-Conventional Energy / Ashok V Desai /Wiley Eastern.
5. Non-Conventional Energy Systems / K Mittal /Wheeler.
123
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. ME& AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED111) MACHINE TOOLS AND METROLOGY LAB
Course Prerequisite: Machine tools and Engineering Materials
Course Objectives:
• Understand the working principles of various machine tools and accessories
• Understand the significance of operating parameters and selection of cutting
tools for machining
• Understand working principles of various instruments and their applications
• Understand the significance of calibration and conducting various tests
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Select an appropriate machine tool for machining a given material and adopt
the knowledge on operating parameters
• Decide the tolerances achieved in different machining operations
• Select appropriate work holding devices
• Select an appropriate instrument for measuring a given parameter
MACHINE TOOLS: Any Six experiments
1. Introduction of general purpose machines - Lathe, Drilling machine, Milling
machine, Shaper, Planing machine, slotting machine, Cylindrical Grinder, Surface
grinder and Tool and cutter grinder.
2. Exercise on Facing, turning, step turning and taper turning on lathe machine
3. Exercise on Grooving, Thread cutting and knurling on lathe machine.
4. Exercise on Drilling, Boring, Counter boring, Counter sinking and Tapping
operations on drilling machine
5. Exercise on Shaping to prepare plain surfaces
6. Exercise on Slotting to prepare contour surfaces
7. Exercise on Milling to perform plain /gear cutting
8. Exercise on Cylindrical Grinding machine.
9. Exercise on Grinding of Tool angles.
10. Exercise on Surface Grinding machine
Demonstration on
Different methods of Taper Turning, Boring, Collar turning, use of four jaw chuck on
lathe, Cutting of V - block on shape, Key way cutting on shaper/milling.
124
R13
METROLOGY: Any Six experiments
1. Measurement of various parameters of a given job using Vernier calipers and
micrometer
2. Measurement of internal dimensions with internal micrometer and dial bore
indicator
3. Checking of chordal width and height of a spur gear tooth using gear tooth Vernier
calipers
4. Machine tool alignment test on a lathe
5. Machine tool alignment test on a milling machine
6. Measurement of various elements of a screw thread using Tool maker’s
microscope
7. Angle and taper measurements by bevel protractor, sine bar etc.
8. Measurement of effective diameter of a screw thread by two wire/ three wire
method using floating carriage micrometer
9. Surface roughness measurement by TalySurf
10. Measurement of single point cutting tool angles by using profile projector
REFERENCES:
1. Workshop Technology by W.A.J. Chapman (Parts I, II, and III); Publisher: Viva
Books.
2. The Principles of Metallographic Laboratory Practice by George L. Kehl;
Publisher: McGraw Hill.
125
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. II Sem (Common to all Branches) L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13ENG102) ADVANCED ENGLISH COMMUNICATION SKILLS LAB
Introduction
This course aims to offer students a practical approach to Technical Writing, and
provide a relevant, contemporary and authoritative introduction to the dynamic field of
technical communication that prepares them for Workplace Communication. Each unit
in the syllabus is devised so as to include a writing component as well as an oral
component.
Course objectives:
• enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content to write
business letters, resume, SOP, Proposals and Technical Reports for
academics as well as for workplace
• enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific
target audience
• groom students to speak accurately and fluently and prepare them for real
world activities through behavioral skills
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• summarize and synthesize information and produce technical writing that is
required in academics as well as in the engineering profession
• write covering letters, resume, SOP, Project Proposals and Technical
Reports
• speak fluently and address a large group of audience and participate in
debates and discussions
Methodology
Writing Component
A Process- Genre methodology will be used in teaching the technical genres. This
method would enable students to understand the use of particular lexico-grammatical
patterns required of in the context of technical writing. They would learn to use
language to express the particular communicative intent that is required of in the
context of writing these genres.
UNIT I
1. Applications and Covering letters
2. Resume Writing
3. Verbal Ability: language, reading and listening, reasoning and analysis
4. Oral Communication :Talking About Yourself
126
R13
UNIT II
1. Writing an SOP
2. Summarizing and Synthesizing Information (Precis Writing)
3. Oral Communication: Making Presentations
UNIT III
1. Writing Project Proposals
2. Oral Communication: Group Discussions
UNIT IV
1. Writing Project Reports
2. Oral Communication: Interview Skills
UNIT V
BEHAVIORAL SKILLS AND PERSONALITY DEVELOPMENT
1. Building a positive attitude, building a positive personality, Motivation, goal setting
& values & vision
2. Problem Solving and Decision Making; Negotiation Skills through Role Play
3. Team Building and Leadership Abilities
4. Social Etiquette
REQUIRED TEXT AND MATERIALS
1. Ashraf Rizvi, M (2005). Effective Technical Communication, Tata Mc Graw Hill
Publishing Company Limited, New Delhi.
2. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical
Communication: A Reader-Centered Approach ( 5th ed.) (pp. 457-473). Boston:
Heinle.
William S. Pfeiffer
3. , (2012) Technical Communication: A Practical Approach
(7th ed.) Longman.
REFERENCES
1. Burnett, Rebecca. Technical Communication. 5th Ed., Heinle, 2001.
2. Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson: Technical Writing Process and Product.
3rd edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999.
3. Markel, Mike. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies (8th EDITION
(2006-2007).
4. R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan, Business Correspondence and Report Writing, Third
Edition, TMH, 2002. (Indian Edition).
5. M. Raman and S. Sharma, Technical Communication: Principles and Practices,
OUP, 2004. (Indian Edition).
127
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. ME& AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13EIE176) INSTRUMENTATION AND CONTROL SYSTEMS LAB
Course Objectives:
• To make student get hands on experience in active and passive sensors.
• Understand the principles and appreciate the working of controllers, degrees
of freedom, control valves
• Learn systematic engineering method to solve practical process control
problems
Course Outcomes:
Student will be able to
• Appreciate the use of sensors
• Suggest the type of sensors required for any operation
• Design and develop a simple measuring devices
List of Experiments
1. Measurement of Load using Strain Gauge bridge
2. Measurement of Temperature using Thermistor, RTD and Thermocouple
3. Measurement of Displacement using LVDT, use of LVDT for Capacitance
measurement
4. Measurement of L,C and R using Bridges and comparing them with Q-Meter
5. Characteristics of Opto-Electric Transducers (Photo Transistor, Photo Diode and
LDR)
6. Pressure measurement through Bourdon Tube
7. Radiation and optical Pyrometers
8. Flow level control unit
9. Temperature level control unit
10. Servo and regulator operation
11. Realization of control actions: Pneumatic controllers
12. Hydraulic controllers
128
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13AED012) VEHICLE BODY ENGINEERING AND SAFETY
Course Prerequisites: Material science, Basic Engineering Design, Automobile
Engineering Design, Theory of Machines and basic knowledge of electrical and
electronics, instrumentation engineering.
Course Objectives:
• Understanding and designing the automotive vehicle system and its behavior
• Understand the basic knowledge in electronic devices which are using for
measurement and safety
• Basic knowledge in instrumentation engineering and safety
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to
• Analyze new technical challenges and create technical advancements in the
automotive industry
• Synthesize and evaluate automotive systems and products
• Introduce the vast range of possibilities for vehicle design
UNIT I
STRUCTURAL MATERIALS
Aluminium alloy sheet, extrusion and casting, austenitic and ferritic stainless steels,
alloy steels, different types of composites, FRP and metal matrix composites.
Structural timbers, properties designing in GRP and high strength composites different
manufacturing techniques of composites. Thermo plastics, ABS and styrenes. Load
bearing plastics, semi-rigid PUR foams and sandwich panel construction.
UNIT II
SHAPING AND PACKAGING
Product design and concepts, aesthetics and industrial design, formal aesthetics and
shape. Computer aided drafting, surface development, interior ergonomics.
Ergonomics system design, dashboard instruments, advances in electronic display, CV
legal dimension, CV cab ergonomics and mechanical package layout.
UNIT III
AERODYNAMICS
Basics, aerofoils, aerodynamics drag lift, pitching, yawing and rolling moments,
determination of aerodynamic coefficients (wind tunnel testing), racing car
aerodynamics, bluff body aerodynamics and local air flows.
129
R13
LOAD DISTRIBUTION
Types of load carrying structures, closed, integral, open and flat types. Calculation of
loading cases - static, asymmetric, vertical loads. Load distribution, stress analysis of
structure and body shell analysis.
UNIT IV
NOISE, VIBRATION AND HARSHNESS
Noise and vibration basics, body structural vibrations, chassis bearing vibration,
designing against fatigue, rubber as an isolator, CV body mountings, automatic
enclosures, sandwich panels, structure dynamics applied, safety under impact: Impact
protection basics, design for crash worthiness, occupant and cargo restraints. Passive
restraint systems, slide impact analysis, bumper system, energy absorbant foams and
laws of mechanisms applied to safety.
VEHICLE STABILITY
Steering geometry vehicle and a curvilinear path and lateral stability, etfects of tyre
factors, mass distribution and engine location on stability.
UNIT V
BODY FITTING AND I CONTROLS
Driver’s seat, window winding mechanism, door lock mechanism, other interior
mechanisms, driver’s visibility’ and tests for, visibility, minimum space, requirements
and methods of improving space in cars. Electric wiring and electronic control systems,
advanced body electronics and networking of body systems controls.
VANS, TRUCKS AND BUSES
Types of mini coach with trailers, single and double deckers, design criteria based on
passenger capacity, goods to be transported and distance to be covered,
constructional details - weights and dimensions, conventional and integral type.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Body Engineering, by Sydney F Page.
2. Vehicle body engineering by Gilcs J Pawlowski.
REFERENCES:
1. Automotive chassis, P.M. Heldt. chilton and Co.
2. Handbook on vehicle body design, SAE Publications.
130
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. ME& AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13EEE080) AUTOMOTIVE ELECTRICAL AND AUTOTRONICS
Course Prerequisites: Physics, Basic Electrical Engineering
Course Objectives:
• Understand the basics of automobile engineering without any previous
knowledge regarding automobiles
• Understand the difference between IC engine vehicle and HEV/EV
• Appreciate the current technologies in the automobile industry
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to
• Apply fundamental knowledge of Automobile Engineering for design of Safety
systems like airbags, ABS, etc.
• Rectify small problems in ignition system starting system
• Design automobile control system
UNIT I
IGNITION SYSTEM
Conventional ignition system and study of its components. Types of ignition systems,
spark advance and retarding mechanisms. Types of spark plugs, ignition timing,
maintenance, servicing and fault diagnosis. Electronic ignition systems, programmed
ignition and distributor-less ignition.
UNIT II
STARTER MOTOR
Construction and working of series and shunt automotive starter motor, types of device
arrangement, solenoid switches, starter motor troubles and repairs. Batteries used in
the automobile industry and their functions.
UNIT III
SENSORS AND ACTUATORS
Types of sensors, sensor for speed, throttle position, exhaust oxygen level, manifold
pressure, crankshaft position, coolant temperature, exhaust temperature and air mass
flow for engine application. Solenoids, stepper motors and relay.
ADAPTIVE CONTROL SYSTEMS
Adaptive cruise control, adaptive noise control, active roll control system and cylinder
cut- off technology
UNIT IV
ENGINE ELECTRONICS
Throttle body fuel injection, multi-point fuel injection, gasoline direct injection, common
rail direct injection, variable timing ignition and distributor less ignition. Engine mapping
and on - board diagnostics.
131
R13
DRIVER ASSISTANCE SYSTEMS
Introduction, driver support systems – Driver information, driver perception, driver
convenience and driver monitoring. Vehicle support systems – General vehicle control,
collision avoidance and vehicle status monitoring.
UNIT V
TELEMATICS
Global positioning systems, geographical information systems, navigation systems,
automotive vision system, road recognition and driver assistance systems.
SAFETY SYSTEMS
Airbags, seat belt tightening system, collision warning systems, child lock, anti - lock
braking systems. anti-spin regulation and traction control systems.
SECURITY SYSTEMS
Anti theft technologies, smart card system, number plate coding.
COMFORT SYSTEMS
Active suspension systems, requirement and characteristics, different types, collapsible
and tiltable steering column, power windows.
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Automotive Electrical systems, By Young and Griffith, Butterworth.
2. Basic automotive electrical systems, By C.P.Nakra, Dhanpat Rai.
REFERENCES:
1. Automotive Electrical system By William H. Grouse, TMH.
2. Modem Electrical Equipments, By A. W. Judg.
3. Automotive Electrical Equipment, By P.L. Kohli, TMH.
132
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. ME& AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13MED019) CAD/CAM
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Graphics, Engineering Design, Production
technology
Course Objectives:
• Understand the mathematics behind the transformations and projections in
design of products on CAD devices
• Learn the fundamentals of part programming required for manufacturing a
product
• Appreciate the integration of design and manufacturing functions through
CAD and CAM
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Identify the types of computer devices and solve the problems on
transformations and use them in a CAD software
• Prepare part programs involving various operations for the manufacturing of
simple and complex products
• Apply the knowledge learnt in integrating CAD and CAM
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Computers in Industrial Manufacturing, Product cycle, CAD and CAM, Overview of
CAD / CAM Hardware, Display devices, Hard copy devices.
COMPUTER GRAPHICS
Raster scan graphics, Coordinate systems, Database structure for graphics modeling,
Transformation of geometry, 3D Transformations, Mathematics of projections, Clipping,
Hidden surface removal.
UNIT II
GEOMETRIC MODELING
Geometric models, Geometric construction methods, Curve representation, Surface
representation methods, Modeling facilities desired, Solid modeling.
DRAFTING SYSTEMS
Basic geometric commands, Layers, Display control commands, Editing,
Dimensioning.
UNIT III
COMPUTER NUMERICAL CONTROL
Introduction to NC machines and CNC machines, Structure of CNC machine tools,
Features of Machining center, Concept of ATC & APC, Feedback control.
133
R13
CNC PART PROGRAMMING
Fundamentals, Introduction to G & M codes, Manual part programming methods,
Computer Aided Part Programming.
UNIT IV
GROUP TECHNOLOGY
Philosophy of Group Technology, Part families, Methods of Parts Classification and
Coding, Advantages and Limitations.
COMPUTER AIDED PROCESSES PLANNING
Introduction, Retrieval type and Generative type, Benefits.
UNIT V
COMPUTER AIDED QUALITY CONTROL
Introduction, Terminology in quality control, The computer in QC, Contact inspection
methods, Noncontact inspection methods-optical and nanoptical, Computer aided
testing, Integration of CAQC with CAD/CAM.
COMPUTER INTEGRATED MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS
Introduction, Types of Manufacturing systems, Machine tools and related equipment,
Material handling systems, Computer Control Systems, Human labor in the
manufacturing systems, CIMS benefits.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. CAD / CAM by A. Zimmers and P. Groover; Publisher: Prentice Hall
International/Pearson Education.
2. CAD/CAM Principles and Applications by P N Rao; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
3. CAD / CAM Theory and Practice by Ibrahim Zeid; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Automation, Production Systems and Computer integrated Manufacturing by
Groover; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. CAD / CAM / CIM by Radhakrishnan and Subramanian; Publisher: Pearson
Education.
3. Principles of Computer Aided Design and Manufacturing by Farid Amirouche;
Publisher: Pearson Education.
4. CAD/CAM: Concepts and Applications by Alavala; Publisher: Prentice Hall
International.
5. Computer Numerical Control Concepts and programming by Warren S Seames;
Publisher: Thomson.
134
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 1 3
(13AED009) AUTOMOTIVE CHASSIS AND SUSPENSION
Course Prerequisites: Basics of chassis, frame, steering system, brakes, suspension,
Two and Three wheelers
Course Objectives:
• Identify and analyze the concept of frames, wheels, tyres, brakes and
suspension system
• Understand the principles of brakes, springs, chassis loading points and
location of engine mounting
• Analyze the concepts of different types of suspension system such as leaf
springs, hydraulic springs, telescopic shock absorbers and different types of
master cylinders in the braking system
• Analyzing the concepts of different types of tests on the chassis, construction
details of two and three wheelers and their chassis frames and their
carburetion system
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to
• Apply fundamental knowledge of automobile engineering basics in the design
of chassis in the automobile industry
• Gain the detailed knowledge of suspension system, brakes and steering
systems
• Conceptual clarity in chassis, frames of two, three and four wheelers,
different carburetion systems and cylinders arrangement
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO CHASSIS SYSTEM
Requirements of an automobile with types of automobiles, layout of an automobile with
reference to power plant, power required for propulsion and various resistances to
motion of the automobile.
FRAMES
Types of frames, materials, calculation of stresses on sections, constructional details,
loading points and testing of frames.
WHEELS AND TYRES
Types of wheels, construction. structure and function of tyres, static and function of
tyres.
UNIT II
STEERING SYSTEMS
Types of steering gears, front axle, under steer and over steer, wheel alignment, power
steering, steering geometry, wheel balancing, centre point steering and steerability.
135
R13
BRAKES
Necessity of brake, stopping distance and time, brake efficiency, weight transfer, brake
shoe theory, determination of braking torque, braking systems, mechanical, hydraulic,
disc, parking and emergency brakes, servo and electrical brakes, details of hydraulic
system, mechanical system and components. types of master cylinders, factors
influencing operation of brakes such as operating temperature, lining, brake clearance,
pedal pressure, linkages, etc.
UNTI III
SUSPENSION
Types of suspension, leaf springs, materials, independent suspension, torsion bar, air
bellows or pneumatic, suspension, hydraulic suspension, constructional details of
telescopic shock absorbers, types, vibrations and riding comfort, role axis of spring
suspension. Front wheel mounting, rear wheel mounting, engine mounting and various
types of springs used in suspension system. Requirements and various types, Material.
UNIT IV
TESTING
Testing procedures, types of tests and chassis components, equipment for lab and
road tests and preparation of test reports.
UNIT V
TWO AND THREE WHEELERS
Classification of two and three wheelers, construction details, construction details of
frames and forks, suspension systems and shock absorbers, different arrangement of
cylinders. Carburetion system and operation.
TEXTBOOK:
1. Automotive chassis and body, P. L. Kohli, TMH.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Introduction to automobile engineering, N.R. Khatawate. Khanna publications.
2. Automotive mechanics, Joseph I Heitner. Affiliated East West Press.
3. Problems in Automobile Engineering, N.K.Giri, Khanna Publications.
4. Automotive Chassis, P.M. Heldt, Chilton & Co.
136
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 1 3
(13AED011) GAS DYNAMICS
Course Prerequisites: Basic integral and differential calculus, Fluid mechanics,
engineering mechanics
Course Objectives:
• Identify and obtain values of compressible fluid properties and relationship
between them
• Understand the principles as applied to compressible fluid motions for
dynamic head measurement
• Recognize these principles for normal shock waves to write Hugoniot
equation
Course Outcomes:
Students should be able to
• Analyze oblique shock and expansion waves in compressible fluid mechanics
problems
• Apply fundamental principles of fluid mechanics potential equation for
compressible flow
• Apply fundamental knowledge of mathematics to modeling and analysis of
compressible fluid flow problems in automobile engineering
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Compressibility, temperature rise, Mach angle, thermodynamics of fluid flow, thermal
and caloric properties, the perfect gas, wave propagation - Velocity of sound, subsonic
and supersonic flows.
UNIT II
STEADY ONE-DIMENSIONAL FLOW
Introduction, the fundamental equations, discharge from a reservoir, stream tube area-
velocity relation, De Laval nozzle, supersonic flow generation, diffusers, dynamic head
measurement in compressible flow and pressure coefficient.
UNIT III
NORMAL SHOCK WAVES
Introduction, equations of motion for a normal shock wave, the normal shock relations
for a perfect gas, change of stagnation or total pressure across, Hugoniot equation, the
propagating shock wave, reflected shock wave, centered expansion wave and shock
tube.
137
R13
UNIT IV
OBLIQUE SHOCK AND EXPANSION WAVES
Introduction, oblique shock relations, relation between β and θ, shock polar, supersonic
flow over a wedge, weak oblique shocks, supersonic compression, supersonic
expansion by turning, the Prandtl—Meyer expansion, simple and non simple regions,
reflection and intersection of shocks, and expansion waves, detached shocks, Mach
reflection, shock-expansion theory and thin aerofoil theory.
UNIT V
POTENTIAL EQUATION FOR COMPRESSIBLE FLOW
Introduction, Crocco’s theorem, the general potential equation for three-dimensional
flow, linearization of the potential equation, potential equation for bodies of revolution,
boundary conditions and pressure coefficient.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Gas Dynamics by E. Rathakrishnan PHI Learning Pvt. Ltd.
REFERENCE:
1. Gas Dynamics by James E. A. John, Theo G. Keith.
138
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. ME&AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-II 3 1 3
(13MED021) AUTOMATION AND ROBOTICS
Course Prerequisites: Production technology, control power systems, mathematics,
kinematics of machinery
Course Objectives:
• To learn concepts of automation and robotics and components, end effectors of
robots
• To study the motion analysis, kinematics, dynamics, types of robot motions and
the various actuators and feedback components used in robots
• To learn the basics of robot programming, its languages and the industrial
applications of robots
Course Outcomes:
• Identify the different robot configurations and find out the positions, angles of the
manipulators given
• the required using the motion analysis, kinematics, dynamics and trajectory
planning concepts
• Analyze the different types of feedback components and sensors used in robots.
• Able to program a robot using the programming and languages
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Basic principles of automation, Hard Automation, Flexible Automation, basic elements
of automated system, levels of automation. Automation & Robotics, An overview of
Robotics, Classification by Coordinate Systems and control systems. Components of
the Industrial Robotics: Degrees of freedom, End effectors – Mechanical gripper,
Magnetic, Vacuum cup and other types of grippers, General consideration on gripper
selection and design.
Motion Analysis: Basic rotation matrices, Composite rotation matrices, Euler angles,
Equivalent angle and axis, Homogeneous transformation, Problems.
UNIT II
KINEMATICS AND DYNAMICS
Manipulator Kinematics: D-H notations, Joint coordinates and world coordinates,
Forward and Inverse kinematics, Problems.
Differential Kinematics: Differential kinematics of planar and spherical manipulators,
Jacobians, Problems.
Robot Dynamics: Lagrange-Euler formulations, Newton-Euler formulations, Problems
on planar two link manipulators.
139
R13
UNIT III
TRAJECTORY PLANNING
Joint space scheme, Cubic polynomial fit, Avoidance of obstacles, Types of motions:
Slew motion, Joint interpolated motion, Straight line motion, Problems.
UNIT IV
ROBOT ACTUATORS AND FEEDBACK COMPONENTS
Actuators – Pneumatic, Hydraulic and Electric actuators, DC Servo motors, Stepper
motors.
Feedback components – Position sensors, Potentiometers, Resolvers and Encoders,
Velocity sensors, Tactile sensors.
UNIT V
ROBOT PROGRAMMING AND LANGUAGES:
Lead through programming, Motion programming, Motion interpolation, Robot
programming language, interlock and sensor commands, Simulation and Off-
Line programming.
ROBOT APPLICATIONS IN MANUFACTURING:
Material Handling and transfer, Welding, Assembly, Inspection, Future applications
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Industrial Robotics by M. P. Groover; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Introduction to Robotic Mechanics and Control by J. J. Craig, Publisher: Pearson
Education.
REFERENCES:
1. Robot Dynamics and Control by M.W.Sponge and M.Vidyasagar; Publisher: John
Wiley.
2. Robotics by K.S.Fu; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
3. Robotic Engineering by Richard Klafter, Publisher: Prentice Hall.
4. Robot Analysis and Intelligence by Asada & Slotine, Publisher: Wiley Interscience.
5. Robotics & Control by Mittal R. K. & Nagrath I. J., Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
6. Modeling and control of robot manipulators by Sialliano & Sciallicco, Springer.
140
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. ME & AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 1 3
(13MED022) COMPOSITE MATERIALS
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics, Chemistry and engineering mechanics
Course Objectives:
• Understand composite materials and their properties, relationship between them
and manufacturing of different types
• Understand the principles of material science applied to composite materials
• Study the equations to analyze problems by making good assumptions and learn
systematic engineering method to solve practical composite mechanics problems
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Apply fundamental knowledge of mathematics to modeling and analysis of
composite materials
• Able to understand the manufacturing methods of various composite materials
• Able to analyze the failure of composites
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Introduction to Composite Materials: Introduction, definition of composite materials,
Classification of composites: Polymer Matrix Composites, Metal Matrix Composites,
Ceramic Matrix Composites, Carbon-Carbon Composites, Fiber reinforced Composites
and Nature made composites, and applications
UNIT II
REINFORCEMENTS
Introduction, Classification of reinforcements, Flexibility, Fibers: Glass-Fabrication,
structure, properties and applications, Boron-Fabrication, structure and morphology,
properties and its applications, Carbon preparation, processing, properties and
applications, Preparation, properties and applications of: Organic fibers–Polyethylene,
Aramid, Ceramic, Non oxide-Silicon carbide, Whiskers
UNIT III
MATRIX MATERIALS
Introduction, Polymers matrix materials-Thermoplastics and Thermosets, copolymers,
molecular weight, degree of crystallinity, stress strain behavior Common thermoset
matrix materials- epoxy, polyster, polyimides common thermoplastic matrix materials-
polyphenylene sulfide, polyaryl sulfone, Metal matrix materials- structure, properties of
metals, common metals applied as matrix metals, Ceramix matrix materials-types,
properties.
Interfaces-wettability, effect of surface roughness, crystallographic nature of interface,
Types of bonding at the interface-mechanical, physical, Chemical bonding.
141
R13
Tests for measuring interfacial strength-Flexural tests, three point bending, four point
bending, short beam shear test, iosipescu shear test, Single fiber pullout test, curved
neck specimen test, instrumented indentation test, fragmentation test., Laser spallation
technique.
UNIT IV
MANUFACTURING METHODS
Polymer matrix composites(PMC)-Processing of thermoset matrix composites, Handy
Lay –Up and Spray Techniques, Filament winding, pultrusion, resin transfer molding,
Tape-Laying and fiber placement systems, Autoclave –based methods, Thermoplastic
matrix composites-Film stacking, Diaphraming, Thermoplastic Tape laying, Injection
Moulding, sheet moulding compound (SMC)
Types of Metal Matrix composites, processing-liquid state process, solid state process,
In situ process, properties and applications.
Ceramic matrix composites(CMC)-processing OF CMC, Cold pressing and sintering,
Hot pressing, Reaction bonding process, Liquid infiltration, Lanxide process, In Situ
chemical Reactions Techniques-chemical vapour deposition and chemical vapour
impregnation, sol-gel and polymer pyrolysis, Properties and applications of CMC,
Carbon Fiber composites-processing, properties and its applications.
UNIT V
MICROMECHANICS OF COMPOSITES
Introduction, Density, Volume, and Mass fractions, void contents, Mechanical
Properties: Prediction of elastic constants,
Halpin-Tsai Equations, Thermal properties: Thermal expansion coefficients of
composites, thermal conductivity of composites, Hygral and Thermal stress
MACROMECHANICS OF COMPOSITES
Introduction, elastic constants of an isotropic material, elastic constants of a Lamina,
Relationships between engineering constants and reduced stiffness and compliances,
Fracture modes in composites: single and multiple fracture, debonding, fiber pullout,
delamination, fracture, fatigue and creep properties of composites, Design with
composites: Advantages of composites in structural design, Fundamental
characteristics of composites.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Composite Materials Science and Engineering by Krishan K. Chawla; Publisher:
Springer.
2. Engineering Mechanics of Composite Materials by Isaac and M. Daniel; Publisher:
Oxford University Press, 1994.
REFERENCES:
1. Mechanics of Composites Material by R. M. Jones, Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Mechanics of Composite materials and Structures by Madhuji Mukhopadyaya
Publisher: University Press.
3. Analysis and performance of Fiber Composites by B. D. Agarwal, L. J. Broutman,
and K. Chandrasekhara; Publisher: John Wiley.
142
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. ME& AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 1 3
(13MED025) SURFACE MODIFICATION TECHNIQUES
Course Prerequisites: Material science, Chemistry, Physics, Mechanical Properties of
materials, Physical Metallurgy
Course Objectives:
• Understand the properties of surfaces and know different methods of protection
• Understand Surface treatment processes for engineering applications
• Understand advanced tools and techniques used in the characterization of
coatings
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Design surface coating based on surface structure and product requirements
• Select on appropriate surface modification depending on application requirements
• Decide on material and surface modification selections appropriate to application
environment
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO SURFACE ENGINEERING
Differences between surface and bulk, Properties of surfaces-wear, corrosion, optical,
roughness, electrical and thermal properties, wetability. Surface protection (physical),
surface modification (chemical) techniques: classification, principles, methods, and
technology.
UNIT II
CONCEPTS OF COATING
Coatings- Concepts of coatings , Electroplating and electroless plating -Metallic and
non metallic coatings- chemical vapour deposition, physical vapour deposition,
Galvanizing – Thermal Spray, types of thermal spray and their advantages and
disadvantages - conventional verses nanocoatings.
UNIT III
PLASMA COATING TECHNOLOGY
Process parameters, thermal and kinetic history of inflight particle, micro structural
features of plasma sprayed coatings, single splat studies, process-structure property
relationship challenges in preparation, plasma spraying of nanopowders - its
microstructure – properties–Liquid precurser plasma spray- applications.
UNIT IV
CHARACTERIZATION OF COATINGS
Coatings –thickness-porosity-hardness, fracture toughness-elastic modulus –adhesion
bending strength-fracture strength- tensile strength- wear and corrosion measurement
phase analysis
143
R13
UNIT V
HARD AND SOFT COATINGS
Laser cladding- laser alloying, Electron beam hardening-ion beam implantation- sol –
gel coatings –electrophoretic deposition –DLC and diamond coatings, antifriction and
antiscratch coatings.
SPUTTERING TECHNIQUES
Methods, applications, plasma treatments, nitriding–carbonising – boriding, titanizing
methods, applications.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Surface Engineering of Metals, Principles, equipments and Technologies-
Tadeusz Burakowski, Padeusg and Weirzxhon, CRC press, 1998.
2. Surface coatings for protection against wear edited by BG Miller, Woodhead
publishing – 2006.
REFERENCES:
1. Surface coatings ASM handbook.
2. Characterization Techniques ASM Handbook.
3. P. Fauchais, A. Vardelle, and B. Dussoubs, "Quo Vadis Thermal Spraying?
"Journal of Thermal Spray Technology, Volume 10(1) March2001.
4. H. Herman and S. Sampath "Thermal Spray Coatings" Published in 1996 by
Chapman and Hall, London. Edited by Kurt H Sien.
144
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. AE I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective-III 3 1 3
(13AED013) FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY
Course Prerequisites: Physics, Chemistry, Heat and Mass transfer
Course Objectives:
• Understand general fuel cell terminology
• Describe various fuel cell devices
• Separate fuel cell systems into maintaining and operating processes
• Interpret fuel cell operating procedures and describe their application
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to
• Describe the current alternative fuels in use today and the science involved in
developing alternate fuels
• Describe the technology used to produce power from alternate fuels
• Identify major components on various alternate fuel, hybrid, and fuel cell vehicles
• Build a working model using various fuel cell technologies
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO FUEL CELLS
Introduction, working and types of fuel cell, low, medium and high temperature fuel
cell, liquid and methanol types, proton exchange membrane fuel cell solid oxide,
hydrogen fuel cells, thermodynamics and electrochemical kinetics of fuel cells.
UNIT II
FUEL CELLS FOR AUTOMOTIVE APPLICATIONS
Fuel cells for automotive applications, technology advances in fuel cell vehicle
systems, onboard hydrogen storage, liquid hydrogen and compressed hydrogen, metal
hydrides, fuel cell control system, alkaline fuel cell and road map to market.
UNIT III
FUEL CELL COMPONENTS AND THEIR IMPACT ON PERFORMANCE
Fuel cell performance characteristics, current/voltage, voltage efficiency and power
density, Ohmic resistance, kinetic performance, mass transfer effects, membrane
electrode assembly components, fuel cell stack, bi-polar plate, humidifiers and cooling
plates.
UNIT IV
FUELING
Hydrogen storage technology – pressure cylinders, liquid hydrogen and metal
hydrides, methods of hydrogen production, carbon fibers, reformer technology – steam
reforming, partial oxidation, auto thermal reforming, CO removal and fuel cell
technology based on removal like bio-mass.
145
R13
UNIT V
FUEL CYCLE ANALYSIS
Introduction to fuel cycle analysis, application to fuel cell and other competing
technologies like battery powered vehicles. SI engine fueled by natural gas and
hydrogen and hybrid electric vehicle.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Viswanathan B. and Scibioh Aulice M, “Fuel Cells: Principles and Applications”,
University Press, 2006.
2. Fuel Cells for automotive applications – professional engineering publishing UK.
2004.
REFERENCES:
1. Frano Barbir, “PEM Fuel Cells: Theory and Practice”, Elsevier Academic Press,
USA, 2005.
2. Mehrdad Ehsani, Yimin Gao, Sebastien E. Gay and Ali Emadi, “Modern Electric,
Hybrid Electric and Fuel Cell Vehicles: Fundamentals, Theory and Design”, CRS
Press, 2004.
3. Fuel Cell Technology Handbook SAE International Gregor Hoogers CRC Press,
2003.
146
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. ME & AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 1 3
(13MED018) FINITE ELEMENT METHOD
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Strength of Materials, Mechanical Vibrations
Course Objectives:
• Understand different concepts of FEM
• To study the boundary conditions, formulations and other functional approaches
of FEM
• To perform simulations using FEM software
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Apply suitable FEM approach to solve a given problem
• Formulate the given problem into finite elements and FEM technique to solve
required paramters
• Apply the concept of FEM to solve different field problems
UNIT I
FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTS
Introduction; Historical background; Stresses and equilibrium; Boundary conditions;
Strain-displacement relations; Stress-strain relations; Temperature effects.
ONE-DIMENSIONAL PROBLEMS
Introduction; Finite element modeling; Co-ordinates and shape functions; The potential
energy approach; Rayleigh-Ritz method; Galerkin’s method, The Galerkin approach;
Assembly of the global stiffness matrix (K) and load vector; Properties of K; The finite
element equations; Treatment of boundary conditions; Quadratic shape functions;
Temperature effects.
UNIT II
TRUSSES
Introduction; Plane trusses; Three-dimensional trusses; Assembly of global stiffness
matrix for the banded and skyline solutions.
TWO-DIMENSIONAL PROBLEMS USING CONSTANT STRAIN TRIANGLES
Introduction; Finite element modeling; Constant strain triangle (CST); Problem
modeling and boundary conditions.
UNIT III
TWO-DIMENSIONAL ISOPARAMETRIC ELEMENTS AND NUMERICAL
INTEGRATION
Introduction; The four-node quadrilateral; Numerical integration; Higher-order-
elements.
147
R13
DYNAMIC ANALYSIS USING FINITE ELEMENT METHOD
Introduction; Vibration problems; Equations of motion based on weak form;
Longitudinal vibrations of bars; consistent mass matrices; element equations; solution
of Eigen value problems.
UNIT IV
AXISYMMETRIC SOLIDS SUBJECTED TO AXISYMMETRIC LOADING
Introduction; Axisymmetric formulation; Finite element modeling - triangular element;
Problem modeling and boundary conditions.
STEADY STATE HEAT TRANSFER ANALYSIS:
One dimensional analysis of Slab, fin and two dimensional analysis of thin plate.
UNIT V
BEAMS
Introduction; Finite element formulation; Hermite shape function, Load vector;
Boundary considerations; Shear force and bending moment; Beams on elastic
supports.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Introduction to Finite Elements in Engineering, 2E, by Tirupathi R. Chandrupatla,
Ashok D. Belegundu; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
2. Text book of Finite Element Analysis by Seshu.
3. Finite Element Analysis using ANSYS 11.0 by Srinivas et all.
REFERENCES:
1. Finite Element Method by Zienkiewicz.
2. An Introduction to Finite Element Methods by J. N. Reddy.
3. Finite Element Method by S. S. Rao.
148
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year – I Sem. B.Tech. ME&AE L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 1 3
(13MED029) FLUID POWER SYSTEMS
Course Prerequisites: Fluid Mechanics, Thermodynamics, Engineering Mechanics,
Mathematics
Course Objectives:
• Understand about the hydraulic control system components
• Understand about the pneumatic control system components
• Understand about the design of fluid power circuits
Course outcomes:
Students should be able to
• Apply fundamental knowledge of hydraulic systems in automation
• Apply fundamental knowledge of pneumatic systems in automation
• Apply fundamental knowledge to fluid power circuits designing in automation
UNIT I
HYDRAULIC POWER SYSTEMS
Introduction, Classification of Power Systems - Mechanical Power Systems, Electrical
Power Systems, Pneumatic Power Systems, Hydrodynamic Power Systems,
Hydrostatic Power Systems, Basic Hydraulic Power Systems, The Advantages and
Disadvantages of Hydraulic Systems, Comparing Power Systems.
Basic Properties of Hydraulic Oils, Classification of Hydraulic Fluids, Typically Used
Hydraulic Fluids, Mineral Oils, Fire-Resistant Fluids, Additives, Requirements Imposed
on the Hydraulic Liquid
UNIT II
HYDRAULIC PUMPS
Introduction, Classification of Pumps – Bent Axis Axial Piston Pumps, Swash Plate
Pumps with Axial Pistons, Swash Plate Pumps with Inclined Pistons, Axial Piston
Pumps with Rotating Swash Plate-Wobble Plate, Radial Piston Pumps with Eccentric
Cam Ring, Radial Piston Pumps with Eccentric Shafts, Radial Piston Pumps of Crank
Type, External Gear Pumps, Internal Gear Pumps, Gerotor Pumps, Screw Pumps,
Vane Pumps, Variable Displacement Pumps, Rotodynamic Pumps
UNIT III
HYDRAULIC CONTROL VALVES
Introduction, Pressure-Control Valves, Direct-Operated Relief Valves, Pilot-Operated
Relief Valves, Pressure-Reducing Valves, Sequence Valves, Accumulator Charging
Valve, Directional Control Valves – types, Check Valves – types, Flow Control Valves –
types
149
R13
ACCESSORIES
Hydraulic Accumulators - Classification, Construction, Operation and Applications of
Hydraulic Accumulators, Hydraulic Filters, Hydraulic Pressure Switches – types.
UNIT IV
HYDRAULIC ACTUATORS
Hydraulic Cylinders – Construction, Classification, Hydraulic Rotary Actuators – types,
Hydraulic Motors – types, Hydraulic Circuits.
HYDRAULIC SERVO ACTUATORS
Construction, Operation and Applications of Hydraulic Servo Actuators, Valve-
Controlled Actuators.
UNIT V
PNEUMATIC SYSTEMS
Introduction, Peculiarities of Pneumatic Systems, Advantages and Disadvantages of
Pneumatic Systems, Basic Elements of Pneumatic Systems, Basic Pneumatic Circuits,
Air Compressors, Pneumatic Reservoirs, Air Filters, Air Lubricators, Pneumatic Control
Valves, Manual Control of a Single- Acting Cylinder, Unidirectional Speed Control of a
Single-Acting Cylinder, Bidirectional Speed Control of a Single-Acting Cylinder,
Bidirectional Speed Control of a Double-Acting Cylinder, Unidirectional and Quick
Return Control of a Double-Acting Cylinder.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Fluid Power Engineering - M. Galal Rabie - McGraw-Hill publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Design of Hydraulic Control Systems - Ernest e. Lewis, Hansjoerg stern -
McGraw-hill Publications.
2. Fluid Power Control - John f. Blackburn, Gerhard Reethof, J. Lowen shearer -
John Wiley and sons inc.
150
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year – I Sem. B.Tech. ME&AE L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 1 3
(13MED031) INTRODUCTION TO AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY AND AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Mechanics, Machine Design, Fluid Mechanics,
Basic Electricals and Electronics
Course Objectives:
• Understand the Aircraft industry and basic components of Aircrafts
• Understand basic electrical, mechanical and electronic equipments of Aircraft
• Understand principles of flight and flight mechanics, performance and maneuvers
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Analyze various Aircraft systems
• Analyze the flow characteristics and forces on air craft structures
• Analyze the flight characteristics, stability of Aircrafts
UNIT I
AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
Evolution and History of Flight, Types Of Aerospace Industry, Key Players in
Aerospace Industry, Aerospace Manufacturing, Industry Supply Chain, Prime
contractors, Tier 1 Suppliers, Key challenges in Industry Supply Chain, OEM Supply
Chain Strategies, Mergers and Acquisitions, Aerospace Industry Trends, Advances in
Engineering/CAD/CAM/CAE Tools and Materials technology, Global and Indian Aircraft
Scenario.
UNIT II
INTRODUCTION TO AIRCRAFTS
Basic components of an Aircraft, Structural members, Aircraft Axis System, Aircraft
Motions, Control surfaces and High lift Devices. Types of Aircrafts - Lighter than
Air/Heavier than Air Aircrafts Conventional Design Configurations based on Power
Plant Location, Wing vertical location, intake location, Tail Unit Arrangements, Landing
Gear Arrangements. Unconventional Configurations-Biplane, Variable Sweep, Canard
Layout, Twin Boom Layouts, Span loaders, Blended Body Wing Layout, STOL and
STOVL Aircraft, Stealth Aircraft, Advantages and disadvantages of these
Configurations.
UNIT III
INTRODUCTION TO AIRCRAFT SYSTEM
Types of Aircraft systems, Mechanical systems. Electrical and Electronic Systems.
Auxiliary systems. Mechanical Systems: Environmental control systems (ECS),
Pneumatic systems, Hydraulic systems, Fuel systems, Landing gear systems, Engine
Control Systems, Ice and rain protection systems, Cabin Pressurization and Air
Conditioning Systems, Steering and Brakes Systems Auxiliary Power Unit, Electrical
151
R13
systems: Avionics, Flight controls, Autopilot and Flight Management Systems,
Navigation Systems, Communication, Information systems, Radar System.
UNIT IV
BASIC PRINCIPLES OF FLIGHT
Significance of speed of Sound, Air speed and Ground Speed, Properties of
Atmosphere, Bernoulli’s Equation, Forces on the airplane, Airflow over wing section,
Pressure Distribution over a wing section, Generation of Lift, Drag, Pitching moments,
Types of
Drag, Lift curve, Drag Curve, Lift/Drag Ratio Curve, Factors affecting Lift and Drag,
Center of Pressure and its effects. Aerofoil
Nomenclature, Types of Aerofoil, Wing Section- Aerodynamic Center, Aspect Ratio,
Effects of lift, Drag, speed, Air density on drag.
UNIT V
BASICS OF FLIGHT MECHANICS
Mach Waves, Mach Angles, Sonic and Supersonic Flight and its effects
STABILITY AND CONTROL
Degree of Stability- Lateral, Longitudinal and Directional Stability and controls of
Aircraft. Effects of Flaps and Slats on Lift Coefficients, Control Tabs, Stalling, Landing,
Gliding Turning, Speed of Sound, Mach Numbers, Shock Waves.
AIRCRAFT PERFORMANCE AND MANEUVERS
Power Curves, Maximum and minimum speeds of horizontal flight, Effects of Changes
of Engine Power, Effects of Altitude on Power Curves, Forces acting on a Aeroplane
during a Turn, Loads during a Turn, Correct and incorrect Angles of Bank, Aerobatics,
Inverted Maneuvers, Maneuverability.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Introduction to Flight by Dave Anderson.
2. Flight without Formulae by A.C Kermode, Pearson Education,10th Edition.
3. Mechanics of Flight by A.C. Kermode, Pearson Education,5th Edition.
4. Fundamentals of Flight by Shevell, Pearson Education, 2nd Edition
REFERENCES:
1. Aircraft Systems: Mechanical, Electrical & Avionics Subsystems Integration by Ian
Moir, Allan Seabridge.
2. Aircraft Design-A Conceptual Approach by Daniel P. Raymer, AIAA education
series,6th Edition.
3. Airframe Structural Design by Michael Niu, Conmilit Press, 1988, 2nd Edition.
4. Airframe Stress Analysis and Sizing by Michael Niu, Conmilit Press, 1999, 3rd
Edition
5. The Elements of Aircraft Preliminary Design by Roger D. Schaufele, Publisher:
Aries.
6. Aircraft Structural Maintenance by Dale Hurst, Publisher: Avotek.
152
R13
7. Aircraft Maintenance and Repair by Frank Delp, Michael J. Kroes & William A.
Watkins, Glencoe, Publisher: McGraw-Hill.
8. An Introduction to Aircraft Certification; A Guide to Understanding Jaa, Easa and
FAA by Filippo De Florio; Publisher: Butterworth-Heinemann.
153
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. ME & AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 1 3
(13MED033) UNCONVENTIONAL MACHINING PROCESSES
Course Prerequisites: Manufacturing Technology & Engineering materials
Course Objectives:
• Understand the classification of various Non-Traditional machining processes
and their applicability to various metals, non - metals & alloys
• Understand the working principles of mechanical energy based material
removal processes
• Understand the Working principles of thermal energy and electrical energy
based material removal processes
• Understand the working principles of chemical and electro-chemical based
material removal processes
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Gain the knowledge on various Non-Traditional machining methods which are
applicable for difficult-to-cut materials, defense and aerospace sectors
• Decide on the process parameters to be adopted and applicability of various
materials that are suitable for mechanical energy based machining processes
• Decide on the process parameters to be adopted and applicability of various
materials that are suitable for electrical and thermal based machining
processes
• Decide on the process parameters to be adopted and applicability of various
materials that are suitable for chemical and electro-chemical energy based
machining processes
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Unconventional Machining Process, Need, Classification, Brief overview of all
techniques, Study of material removal phenomena.
UNIT II
MECHANICAL ENERGY BASED PROCESSES
Abrasive Jet Machining – Water Jet Machining – Abrasive Water Jet Machining-
Ultrasonic Machining (AJM, WJM, AWJM, USM). Working Principles – equipment used
– Process parameters – MRR – Applications.
154
R13
UNIT III
ELECTRICAL ENERGY BASED PROCESSES
Electric Discharge Machining (EDM) - working Principles-equipments-Process
Parameters-MRR- electrodes Used – Power Circuits – Dielectric – Flushing –
Applications, Wire Cut EDM- Applications
UNIT IV
CHEMICAL AND ELECTRO-CHEMICAL ENERGY BASED PROCESSES
Chemical Machining and Electro-Chemical machining (CHM and ECM)-Etchants-
maskants -techniques of applying maskants-Process Parameters – MRR-Applications-
Principles of ECM-equipments-MRR-Processes Parameters.
UNIT V
THERMAL ENERGY BASED PROCESSES
Laser Beam Machining (LBM), Plasma Arc Machining (PAM) and Electron Beam
Machining (EBM), Principles-Equipment-Process Parameters - Applications.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Advanced Machining Processes by Vijay K. Jain; Publisher: Allied Publishers.
REFERENCES:
1. Nontraditional Manufacturing Processes by Benedict. G. F; Publisher: Marcel
Dekker.
2. Advanced Methods of Machining by McGeough; Publisher: Chapman and Hall,
London.
3. Unconventional Machining Processes by P. K. Mishra; Publisher: Narosa.
155
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. AE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13AED103) AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING LAB
Course Prerequisites: Automotive Engine operation and Working of Engine systems
Course Objectives:
• Understand the fundamentals, operation and function of automotive engines
• Understand the working of fuel, ignition, cooling, lubrication and electrical
systems
• Understand the performance and emission characteristics of an engine
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to
• Diagnose the simple problems on Fuel, Ignition, Cooling, Lubrication and
electrical systems
• Analyze engine performance Characteristics
• Develop safe attitude towards mechanical operations of the Automotive
Engine
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS (any ten experiments)
1. Dismantling, Inspection for wear and tear, crack, material breakdown of different
engines components. Servicing of engines by paraffin and degreasing methods,
decarburizing procedure.
2. Dismantling, Inspection and Assembly of different parts of 2 wheelers, 3 wheelers
and heavy duty engines covering 2-stroke and 4-stroke, SI and CI engines.
3. Measurement of dimensions of different components of the above engines and
compare the same with standard specifications.
4. Assembling the engines with using special tools, necessary adjustments of the
engine components. Valve spring testing, connecting rod alignment, piston ring
testing procedure for dismantling and assembling.
5. Dismantling and assembly of LMV components as following:
6. a. Gear box b) Clutch assembly c) Propeller shaft d) Differential gear box e) Rear
axle f) Suspension system g) Steering mechanism.
7. Dismantling and assembly of door frames, door locks and window locks
8. Study of driver’s seat layout in anyone LMV and anyone HMV.
9. Testing, servicing and charging of batteries
10. Servicing of generator, alternator and starter motor with dismantling, testing,
inspection and assembly.
11. Servicing of ignition systems
12. Drawing of general electrical wiring diagrams of various vehicles two and four
wheelers.
156
R13
13. Measurement of base circle diameter and tooth thickness of spur and helical
gears Use of slip gauges, measurement of screw threads using screw thread
micrometer, use of comparators, experiments involving profile projectors
Note: Driving practice of a geared two wheeler and anyone LMV for a minimum of 10
hours during 5th & 6th semester must be provided.
157
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. ME& AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED112) CAD/CAM LAB
Course Prerequisites: CAD, CAM and SOM
Course Objectives:
• Understand the ways in which 2D, 3D, part drawings and assembly drawings are
made using appropriate CAD packages
• Learn the part programming techniques in turning, milling and drilling operations
• Understand the determination of stresses and strains in systems like trusses and
beams
Course Outcomes:
• Generate part and assembly drawings using CAD packages
• Produce component with different features using CNC machines and machining
centers
• Determine the elastic properties in components of the structures
12 exercises from the following syllabus
CAD
1. 2D Drawing using Sketcher workbench – 1 exercise containing at least 3 drawings
2. 3D modeling using 3D features – 1 exercise containing at least 3 models
3. Assembly and drafting – 1 exercise containing 1 assembly
4. Surface Modeling – 1 exercise
5. Sheet Metal Working – 1 exercise
Softwares: AutoCAD, IronCAD, CATIA, CREO
CAM
1. Part programming for Turning, Facing, Chamfering, Grooving, Step turning, Taper
turning operations
2. Part programming for Point to point motions, Linear motions, Circular interpolation,
Contour motion, Pocket milling - Circular, Rectangular and Mirror commands
3. Part Programming using Fixed or Canned Cycles for Drilling, Peck drilling, Boring,
Tapping, Turning, Facing, Taper turning, Thread cutting
4. Generation of tool path, NC part program and its simulation
5. Machining of small components using CNC Lathe, CNC Mill and CNC Turning
center
Softwares: CNC Offline Simulation, EdgeCAM
CAE
1. Determination of deflection and stresses in 2D and 3D trusses and beams
2. Determination Principal/ Von-mises stresses and deflections, in plane stress/
plane strain/ axisymmetric models
3. Determination of stresses in 3D and shell structures
Software: Ansys
158
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. ME&AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED114) AUTOMATION AND ROBOTICS LAB
Course Prerequisites: Manufacturing processes, fluid and electric controllers, robot
programming, mathematics, kinematics of machinery
Course Objectives:
• To conduct the experiments for understanding the working of hydraulic,
pneumatic, electric and electronic controls used in automation
• To understand the concepts of PLC’s, microcontrollers and automated transfer
devices in automation by conducting experiments
• To demonstrate the robotics manipulator motions using the robotic programming
and languages
Course Outcomes:
• Analyze the working of different controls used in automation
• Able to design and analyze the hydraulic/pneumatic circuits
• Able to write a robot program
Experiments to demonstrate
1. Limit stops and CAM control devices
2. Pneumatic, hydraulic, electrical systems in automation
3. Microprocessor applications in automated systems
4. Robotics Systems and Programming
5. Automated transfer devices
6. Training on Programmable Logic Controllers
159
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. AE II SEM L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13AED014) INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING AND OPERATIONS RESEARCH
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics
Course Objectives:
• To understand linear programming in practical use
• Understanding the theory of games, replacement, inventory and queuing models
and their solution methodology for solving problems
• Understand the concept of industrial engineering (I.E) and role of I.E, application
I.E, production Vs I.E and principles of management
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to
• Formulate and solve assignment, transportation, sequencing, replacement,
inventory and queuing problems
• Formulate and solve problems using linear programming
• Decide an appropriate I.E technique to solve problems
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Origin, development, definition, characteristics and phases, types of OR models,
applications and limitations.
ALLOCATION
Linear programming problem formulation, graphical solution, simplex method, artificial
variables technique, two phase method, big-M method and duality principle.
UNIT II
TRANSPORTATION PROBLEM
Formulation-Optimal solution-unbalanced transportation problem-Degeneracy.
Assignment problem-Formulation-Optimal solution-Variations of Assignment Problem-
Travelling Salesman Problem.
SEQUENCING
Introduction, flow shop sequencing-n jobs through two machines-n jobs through three
machines-Job shop sequencing-two jobs through m machines.
UNIT III
REPLACEMENT
Introduction, replacement of items that deteriorate with time-when money value is not
counted and counted-Replacement of items that fail completely and group
replacement.
160
R13
THEORY OF GAMES
Introduction, minimax (maximin), criterion and optimal strategy-Solution of games with
saddle points-Rectangular games without saddle points-principles of dominance-
m*2and 2*n games-graphical method.
UNIT IV
WAITING LINES
Introduction, single channel - poisson arrivals-exponential service times-with infinite
population and finite population models-Multichannel-Poisson arrivals-exponential
service times with infinite population single channel Poisson arrivals.
INVENTORY
Introduction, single item-Deterministic models-Purchase inventory models with one
price break and multiple price breaks-shortages not allowed-Stochastic models-
demand may be discrete variable or continuous variable-Instantaneous production,
Instantaneous demand and continuous demand and no set up cost-single period
model.
UNIT V
MARKETING
Functions of marketing, marketing mix, product life cycle, channels of distribution and
sales management. Manufacturing planning - MRP, MRP-II, JIT and CIM.
WORK STUDY
Concept of productivity, method study - Basic steps in method study, process charts,
diagrams, models and templates, principles of motion economy, micro motion study,
therbligs and SIMO Chart. Work Measurement - Stop watch procedure of time study,
performance rating, allowances, work sampling and simple problems.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Operations Research by J.K.Sharma; Publisher: Mac Milan.
2. Operations Research by R. Pannerselvam; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Operations Research by A. M. Natarajan, P.Balasubramani, A.Tamilarasi;
Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Operations Research: Methods and Problems by Maurice Saseini, Arthur Yaspan
and Lawrence Friedman.
3. Introduction to OR by Taha; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
4. Operations Research by Wagner; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
5. Operations Research by S.D.Sharma-Kedarnath.
6. O.R Wayne L. Winston by Thomson; Publisher: Brooks/Cole.
7. Introduction to O.R by Hiller and Liebermann; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
8. Aryasri: Management Science, TMH, New Delhi, 2009.
9. Industrial Engineering Management, by Dr. O. P .Khanna.
161
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 1 3
(13AED015) ALTERNATE FUELS FOR AUTOMOBILES
Course Prerequisites: Engineering chemistry, IC Engines, Automobile Electrical
System
Coarse Objectives:
• Understand the various fuels available for automobiles and their production
• Identify the economical resources of power
• Understand the various quality standards
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to
• Work safely on high pressure and temperature fuels without injury
• Work safely on high voltage present in the electrical vehicles without injury
• Control the pollutions from the automobiles
UNIT I
COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS(CNG)
Introduction, history of CNG, production of CNG, properties of CNG, CNG storage,
piping for CNG, advantages and disadvantages of CNG, CNG dispensing systems,
CNG transportation, material compatibility for CNG, CNG fuel kits, engine modifications
for CNG operations, CNG combustion, stoichiometric vs. lean burn CNG engines,
engine optimization, vehicle emission from CNG, after treatment of CNG exhaust, CNG
fuelling station safety systems, CNG standards and regulations, third-party inspection
for alternative fuels vehicles, CNG vehicles worldwide and in India.
UNIT II
LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (LNG)
Introduction, history of LNG, production of LNG, properties, economics of LNG,
advantages and disadvantages, transportation and storage of LNG, piping for LNG,
LNG dispensers, LNG to CNG conversion system, regulations for LNG, LNG vehicle
worldwide, vehicle performance characteristics for LNG, vehicle emissions from LNG
and LNG in India.
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM NATURAL GAS (LPG)
Introduction, history of LPG, production of LPG, properties, storage of LPG, dispensing
of LPG, LPG nozzles and receptacles, material compatibility for LPG, piping, safety
systems and transportation of LPG, advantages and disadvantages of LPG, LPG
engine developments, LPG fuel kits and combustion, emission from LPG, LPG
Standards, LPG Vehicle worldwide and LPG scenario in India.
162
R13
UNIT III
LIQUEFIED HYDROGEN
Properties of hydrogen, production of hydrogen, photochemical production of
hydrogen, algal production of hydrogen (Bio-hydrogen), on-board storage of hydrogen,
metal hydrates, compressed hydrogen gas, activates carbon storage, hazards with
LH , advantages and disadvantages of LH , transportation of LH , piping for LH ,
2 2 2 2
dispensers for LH, vehicle emissions from LH , BMW liquid hydrogen cars and liquid
2 2
hydrogen in India.
BIO-FUELS
Bio-gas, methanol, ethanol, butanol, straight vegetable oil, bio-diesels, properties,
production, storage methods, power densities, advantages and disadvantages over
conventional fuels and specific design criteria used in automobiles.
UNIT IV
ELECTRIC VEHICLES
Introduction, battery electric vehicle, components of EV, EV batteries, EV chargers, EV
drives, EV tractive force, EV transmission, EV motor design, EV power devices and
controllers, advantages and disadvantages, performance characteristics, testing, EV
challengers and EV scenario in India, hybrid electric vehicles, international status of
hybrid EVs, HEV batteries, HEV ultra capacitors, HEV motors, HEV transmissions,
drive train components and HEV performance specifications.
UNIT V
FUEL CELL POWER VEHICLES
Fuel cell vehicle, benefits of fuel cells for automotive industry, basics, efficiency and
types of fuel cells, fuel cell options for fuel cell vehicle, fuel regulations, fuel cell hybrid
vehicle, fuel cell solar vehicle, solar photovoltaic cell, solar car electrical system and
drive train, solar array, solar car body and chassis, hybrid gas turbine EV, nuclear car
and road map for alternative power trains.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Alternative fuels/ SS Thipse/ JAICO Publishers/ 2010.
2. Alternative fuel technology/ Erjavec, Arias/ Yesdee Publications/ 2009.
REFERENCES:
1. A text book of alternative fuel of Automobile Engine, Ramireddy and Yousuf, Front
line Publishers.
2. The Complete Idiot's Guide to Hybrid and Alternative Fuel Vehicles by Jack R.
Nerad.
3. Hybrid and Alternative Fuel Vehicles (New Edition) by James D. Halderman.
4. Powering Your Vehicle With Straight Vegetable Oil by Forest Gregg.
163
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. ME & AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 1 3
(13MED034) NANO SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics and chemistry
Course Objectives:
• Understands the Nanomaterials and their properties
• Understands the different nanostructures of carbon and its properties and
their properties
• Understands the applications of carbon nanotubes
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Know the importance and challenges of Nanoscience and Technology
• Apply the fundamental knowledge science to characterize the Nano Materials
• Synthesize carbon Nano tubes
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO NANO
Importance, Definition and scope, Nano size, challenges, applications. Electrons,
Atoms and Ions, Molecules, Metals, Other Materials.
HISTORY OF NANO-SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
Nano magnetism as a case study; Fundamental terms (Physics & Chemistry) in nano-
science and technology; Feynman’s perspective; Scaling laws pertaining to mechanics,
optics, electromagnetism; Importance of Quantum mechanics, statistical mechanics
and chemical kinetics in nano-science and technology.
UNIT II
CLASSIFICATION OF NANO MATERIALS
Scientific basis for top-down and bottom-up approaches to synthesize Nanomaterials;
How to characterize Nanomaterials? Electrons in Nanomaterials.
TOOLS OF THE NANOSCIENCE
Tools for Measuring Nanostructures, Tools to Make Nanostructures. Nano scale
Biostructures, Energy Capture, Transformation, and Storage Optics, Magnets,
Fabrication, Electronics, Electronics Again Modelling.
UNIT III
NANO-BIOTECHNOLOGY
Bio-molecules; Biosensors; Nanomaterials in drug delivery; Working in clean room
environments; Safety and related aspects of Nanomaterials.
UNIT IV
CARBON NANOTUBES & STRUCTURES
Carbon Nano structures and types of Carbon Nano tubes, growth mechanisms of
164
R13
carbon nanotubes. Carbon clusters and Fullerenes, Synthesis of CNTs by Flame, CVD,
Laser & Arc-discharge process.
UNIT V
Lithium & Hydrogen adsorption & storages, Fuel cell applications and energy storage,
Chemical Sensors applications of CNTs.
TEXT BOOKS & REFERENCES:
1. Nanotechnology Fundamentals and Applications- by Manasi Karkare I.K
International.
2. Nanoscience and Nanotechnology in engineering – by Vijay K Varadan A
Sivathanupillai Word scientific.
3. Nanotechnology applications to telecommunications and networking By Daniel
Minoli, Wiley Interscience.
4. Nanotechnology Principles and Applications by Sulabha Kulkarni.
165
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. ME& AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 1 3
(13MED036) DESIGN FOR MANUFACTURING
Course Prerequisites: Production Technology, Metallurgy & Material Science, Design
Concepts, Automation, Machine Tools
Course Objectives:
• Understand the design process and materials and their interrelationship
• Understand design rules for various processes like machining, castings, metal
joining, extrusion and sheet metal work
• Understand manual and automatic assembly transfer systems
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Design components for ease of manufacturing depending on manufacturing
process
• Select materials conforming to design and having ease of manufacture
• Design for manual and automatic - assembly transfer systems
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Design philosophy, Steps in design process, General design rules for
manufacturability, Basic principles of designing for economical production, Creativity in
design.
MATERIALS
Selection of materials for design, Criteria for material selection, Material selection
interrelationship with process selection, Process Selection charts.
UNIT II
MACHINING PROCESS
Overview of various machining processes, General design rules for machining,
Dimensional tolerance and surface roughness, Design for machining ease,
Redesigning of components for machining ease with suitable examples, General
design recommendations for machined parts.
METAL CASTING
Appraisal of various casting processes, Selection of casting process, General design
considerations for casting, casting tolerances, Use of solidification simulation in casting
design, Product design rules for sand casting.
166
R13
UNIT III
METAL JOINING
Appraisal of various welding processes, Factors in design of weldments, General
design guidelines - Pre and post treatment of welds, Effects of thermal stresses in weld
joints, Design of brazed joints.
FORGING
Design factors for Forging, Closed die forging design, Parting lines of die drop forging
die design, General design recommendations.
EXTRUSION AND SHEET METAL WORK
Design guidelines for extruded sections, Design principles for Punching, Blanking,
Bending, Deep Drawing, Keeler Goodman Forming Line Diagram, Component design
for Blanking.
UNIT IV
ASSEMBLY ADVANTAGES
Development of the assembly process, Choice of assembly method, Assembly
advantages, Social effects of automation.
AUTOMATIC ASSEMBLY TRANSFER SYSTEMS
Continuous transfer, Intermittent transfer, Indexing mechanisms and operator - paced
free transfer machine.
UNIT V
DESIGN OF MANUAL ASSEMBLY
General design guidelines for manual assembly, Development of the systematic DFA
methodology, Assembly efficiency, Classification system for manual handling,
Classification system for manual insertion and fastening, Effect of part symmetry on
handling time, Effect of part thickness and size on handling time, Effect of weight on
handling time.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Assembly Automation and Product Design by Geoffrey Boothroyd, Publisher:
Marcel Dekker Inc.
2. Engineering Design – Material and Processing Approach by George E. Dieter,
Publisher: McGraw Hill Intl.
REFERENCES:
1. Hand Book of Product Design by Geoffrey Boothroyd, Publisher: Marcel and
Dekker.
2. Computer Aided Assembly Planning by A. Delchambre, Publisher: Springer.
167
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. ME& AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 1 3
(13MED037) PRINCIPLES OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Course Prerequisites: General Management & Financial Accounting concepts,
Enthusiasm towards Entrepreneurship
Course Objectives:
• Understand the entrepreneurial process involved in creating, managing a new
enterprise
• Understand the background and tools necessary to participate in
the entrepreneurial process
• Understand fundamental business framework
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Identify the key steps required for exploiting an innovative idea or opportunity to
develop an existing business, launch a new venture, or initiate a social enterprise
• Recognize and evaluate business opportunities under dynamic economic settings
• Identify and solve entrepreneurial issues while starting an enterprise
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Definition of Entrepreneur, Entrepreneurial Traits, Entrepreneur vs. Manager,
Entrepreneur vs intrepreneur, The Entrepreneurial decision process, Role of
Entrepreneurship in Economic Development, Ethics and Social responsibility of
Entrepreneurs, Opportunities for Entrepreneurs in India and abroad, Woman as
Entrepreneur.
UNIT II
CREATING AND STARTING THE VENTURE
Sources of new Ideas, Methods of generating ideas, creating ideas and problem
solving, product planning and development process.
UNIT III
THE BUSINESS PLAN, NEW VENTURE EXPANSION STRATEGIES AND ISSUES
Nature and scope of Business plan, Writing Business Plan, Evaluating Business plans,
Using and implementing business plans. Marketing plan, financial plan and the
organizational plan, Launching formalities. Features and evaluation of joint ventures,
mergers, acquisitions, franchising. Public issues, rights issues, bonus issues and stock
splits.
168
R13
UNIT IV
FINANCING AND MANAGING THE NEW VENTURE
Sources of capital, Record keeping, Recruitment, Motivating and leading teams,
Financial controls, Marketing and sales controls, E-commerce and Entrepreneurship,
Internet advertising.
UNIT V
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT TO ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND LABOUR
LEGISLATION
Role of Directorate of Industries, District Industries Centers (DICs), Industrial
Development Corporation (IDC), State Financial Corporation (SFCs), Small Scale
Industries Development Corporations (SSIDCs), Khadi and Village Industries
Commission (KVIC), Technical Consultancy Organization (TCO), Small Industries
Service Institute (SISI), National Small Industries Corporation (NSIC), Small Industries
Development Bank of India(SIDBI). Salient Provision under Indian Factories Act,
Industrial Disputes Act, Employees State Insurance Act, Workmen's Compensation Act
and payment of Bonus Act.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Robert Hirsch and Michael Peters: Entrepreneurship, TMH, 5th Edition.
2. Dillinger: Entrepreneurship, 4/e, Pearson, 2004.
REFERENCES:
1. Vasant Desai: Dynamics of Entrepreneurial Development and management,
Himalaya Publishing House, 2004.
2. Harvard Business Review on Entrepreneurship, HBR Paper Back, 1999.
3. Robert J.Calvin: Entrepreneurial Management, TMH, 2004.
4. Gurmeet Naroola: The Entrepreneurial Connection, TMH, 2001.
5. Bolton and Thompson: Entrepreneurs- Talent, Temperament, Technique,
Butterworth Heinemann, 2001.
6. Agarwal: Indian Economy, Wishwa Prakashan 2005.
7. Duttand Sundaram: Indian Economy. S. Chand, 2005.
8. Srivastava: Industrial Relations and Labour Laws, Vikas, 2005.
9. Aruna Kaulgud: Entrepreneurship Management by Vikas Publishing House, 2003.
10. Thomas W. Zimmererand Norman M. Scarborough: Essential of Entrepreneurship
and Small Business Management, PHI, 4/e, 2005.
11. Mary Coulter: Entrepreneurship in Action, PHI, 2/e, 2005.
12. Kaplan: Patterns of Entrepreneurship, Willey, 2005.
169
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. ME & AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 1 3
(13CSE077) INTERACTIVE COMPUTER GRAPHICS
Pre-requisites: C language, Engineering Graphics
Course Objectives:
• Define computer graphics and explain applications of computer graphics and
its systems
• Illustrate basics of application programming interface (API) implementation
based on graphics pipeline approach
• Enabling students to have practical experience in the production of 2D, 3D
Computer animation and Modeling techniques using various transformations
• Explain the necessary knowledge and skills to extend core compositing and
postproduction work using visual effects
Course Outcomes:
• Apply the relevant mathematics of computer graphics and be able to write
basic graphics application programs including animation
• Use the basic aspects of 2D image representations and transformations
• Implement different methods of digitally representing 3D Object
representations and transformations
• Name the traditional principles of visible surface detection methods that can
be applied to computer animation
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Introduction, Application area of Computer graphics, Overview of graphic system,
Display devices, Raster-scan systems, Random Scan Systems, Graphics Monitors and
Work stations and Input devices.
UNIT II
OUTPUT PRIMITIVES
Points and lines, Line drawing algorithms, Mid-point circle algorithm.
FILLED AREA PRIMITIVES
Scan-line polygon fill algorithm, Boundary-fill and flood-fill algorithm.
UNIT III
2-D GEOMETRICAL TRANSFORMATION:
Translation, scaling, rotation, reflection and shear transformation matrix
representations and homogeneous co-ordinates, composite transformations,
transformations between coordinates.
170
R13
2-D VIEWING
The viewing pipe-line, Viewing coordinate reference frame, Window to view-port
coordinate transformations, Viewing function, Cohen-Sutherland and Cyrus-beck line
clipping algorithms, Sutherland-Hodgeman polygon clipping algorithm.
UNIT IV
3-D OBJECT REPRESENTATION
Polygon surfaces, Quadric surfaces, Spline representation, Hermite curve, Bezier
curve and B-spline curve, Bezier and B-spline surfaces, Basic illumination models,
Shading algorithms.
3-D GEOMETRIC TRANSFORMATIONS
Translation, Rotation, Scaling, Reflection and Shear transformation, Composite
transformations.
UNIT V
VISIBLE SURFACE DETECTION METHODS
Classification, Back-face detection, Depth-buffer, Scan-line, Depth sorting, Area sub-
division and octree methods.
COMPUTER ANIMATION
Design of Animation sequence, general computer animation functions, raster
animation, computer animation languages, key frame systems, motion specifications.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Computer Graphics C version by Donald Hearn & M. Pauline Baker; Publisher:
Pearson/PHI.
2. Computer Graphics Principles and Practice / 2 edition in C/ Foley, VanDam,
Feiner and Hughes/Pearson Education.
3. CAD/CAM - Theory and Practice / Ibrahim Zeid / TMH.
REFERENCES:
1. Computer Graphics/ 2 edition / Zhig and kiang, Roy Plastic,outlines/TMH.
2. Procedural elements for Computer Graphics / David F Rogers / Tata Mc Graw
hill/2nd edition.
3. Principles of Interactive Computer Graphics/Neuman and Sproul/TMH.
4. Principles of Computer Graphics/Shalini Govil.
171
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. AE II SEM L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 1 3
(13AED016) AUTOMOTIVE POLLUTION AND CONTROL
Course Prerequisites: Basic knowledge of automobile engines and different type of
fuels used
Course Objectives:
• Understand the assessment of vehicle population and their contribution to
pollution and its effects on environment
• Understand the formation of pollutant like HC, CO and NOx in SI engines
• Understand the formation of various pollutants in CI engines including noise
pollution
• Learn various pollution measurement techniques, standards and control of
emissions
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to
• Assess the relation between vehicular population and pollution and the effect of
pollution on environment
• Analyze and control the pollution from engines
• Design the engines by optimum selection of operational variables to control
emissions
• Measure pollution by various techniques, apparatus and standards and perform
various pollution tests
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Vehicle population assessment in metropolitan cities and contribution to pollution,
effects on human health and environment, global warming, types of emission and
transient operational effects on pollution.
UNIT II
POLLUTANT FORMATION IN SI ENGINES
Pollutant formation in SI engines, mechanism of HC and CO formation in four stroke
and two stroke SI engines, NO formation in SI engines, effects of design and operating
x
variables on emission formation, control of evaporative emission and two stroke engine
pollution.
UNIT III
POLLUTANT FORMATION IN CI ENGINES
Pollutant formation in CI engines, smoke and particulate emissions in CI engines,
effects of design and operating variables on CI engine emissions, No formation and
x
control, noise pollution from automobiles, measurement and standards.
172
R13
UNIT IV
CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM SI AND CI ENGINES
Design of engine, optimum selection of operating variables for control of emissions,
EGR (Exhaust gas recirculation), thermal reactors, secondary air injection, catalytic
converters, catalysts, fuel Modifications, fuel cells and two stroke engine pollution
control.
UNIT V
MEASUREMENT TECHNIQUES EMISSION STANDARDS AND TEST PROCEDURE
Orsat Apparatus, NDIR (Non Dispersive Infra Red),FID (Flame Ionization Detector),
Chemiluminescent analyzers, Gas Chromatograph, smoke meters, emission
standards, driving cycles – USA, Japan, Euro and India. Test procedures – ECE
(Economic Commission for Europe), FTP (Federal Test Procedure), SHED (Sealed
Housing Evaporative Determinations) Test – chassis dynamometers and dilution
tunnels.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Paul Degobert – Automobiles and Pollution – SAE International ISBN-1-56091-
563-3.
2. Ganesan, V- “Internal Combustion Engines”- Tata McGraw-Hill Co.
REFERENCES
1. Obert.E.F.- “Internal Combustion Engines”- 1988.
2. SAE Transactions- “Vehicle Emission”- 1982 (3 volumes).
3. Marco Nute- “Emissions from two stroke engines, SAE Publication.
173
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. ME & AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 1 3
(13MED038) PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE MANAGEMENT
Course Prerequisite: Mathematics, computers and use of software’s packages
Course Objectives:
• Understand PLM Strategies
• Understand the principles of product life cycle
• Understand business process
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Forecast the demand of the product
• Develop a new product strategy
• Predict the life cycle of product
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO PLM
Need for PLM, opportunities and benefits of PLM, different views of PLM, components
of PLM, phases of PLM, PLM feasibility study, PLM visioning.
PLM STRATEGIES
Industrial strategies, strategy elements, its identification, selection and implementation,
change management for PLM.
UNIT II
PRODUCT DATA MANAGEMENT (PDM)
PDM systems and importance, reason for implementing a PDM system, financial
justification of PDM, barriers to PDM implementation.
PRODUCT DESIGN
Engineering design, organization and decomposition in product design, product design
process, methodical evolution in product design, concurrent engineering, design for 'X'
and design central development model. Strategies for recovery at end of life, recycling,
human factors in product design. Modeling and simulation in product design.
UNIT III
NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
Structuring new product development, building decision support system, Estimating
market opportunities for new product, new product financial control, implementing new
product development, market entry decision, launching and tracking new product
program, Concept of redesign of product.
174
R13
UNIT IV
TECHNOLOGY FORECASTING
Future mapping, invocating rates of technological change, methods of technology
forecasting such as relevance trees, morphological methods and mission flow diagram,
combining forecast of different technologies, uses in manufacture alternative.
UNIT V
PRODUCT CONCEPTION PROCESS
Business processes, data-process relationship, from the idea to waste disposal
Product structures: Variant management, product configuration, material master data,
product description data, Data models, Life cycles of individual items, status of items.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Fabio Giudice, Guido La Rosa, Product Design for the environment-A life cycle
approach, Taylor and Francis 2006.
2. Robert J. Thomas, NPD: Managing and forecasting for strategic processes.
3. Martins Joseph, Technological Forecasting for decision Making, 2nd edition, North
Holland.
REFERENCES:
1. John Stark, Springer-Verlag, ”Product Lifecycle Management Paradigm for 21st
century Product Realization”, London, 3rd printing (2006). 441 pp., ISBN: 1-
85233-810-5.
2. Product Lifecycle Management, Michael Grieves, Tata McGraw Hill.
175
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. ME & AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 1 3
(13MED039)PLANT LAYOUT AND MATERIAL HANDLING SYSTEMS
Course Prerequisite: Knowledge of manufacturing, Operations Research
Course Objectives:
• Understand plant layout system, its types and software tools used
• Identify and learn elements of various material handling systems
• Understand the benefit of an efficient material handling system and storage
system
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Design an appropriate plant layout for a plant
• Flexible Plant layout to accommodate changes in product volume or product type
• Recommended improvements to existing plant layouts from the stand point of
material handling and product flow
UNIT I
PLANT LAYOUTS
Fundamentals of plant layouts, Classification of layout, Advantages and limitations of
different layouts. Layout design procedures. Process Layout and Product Layout:
Comparison, Selection, Specification, Implementation and follow up.
UNIT II
Group Layout and Fixed Position Layout, Quadratic assignment model, Branch and
bound method. Software tools used for making plant layouts – ALDEP, CORELAP,
CRAFT; Case studies
UNIT III
ELEMENTS OF MATERIAL HANDLING SYSTEM
Importance; Terminology; Objectives and benefits of better material handling;
Principles and features of Material Handling System; Interrelationships between
material handling and plant layout; Physical facilities and other organizational
functions; Classification of material handling equipments.
SELECTION OF MATERIAL HANDLING EQUIPMENTS
Factors affecting for selection; Material handling equation; Choices of material handling
equipment; General analysis procedures; Basic analytical techniques; The unit load
concept; Selection of suitable types of systems for applications; Activity cost data and
economic analysis for design of components of material handling systems; Functions
and parameters affecting service; Packing and storage of materials.
176
R13
UNIT IV
HOISTS
Drives for hoisting; Components and hoisting mechanisms; Rail traveling components
and mechanisms; Hoisting gear operation during transient motion; Selecting the motor
rating and determining breaking torque for hoisting mechanisms.
CRANES
Hand-propelled and electrically driven E.O.T. overhead traveling cranes; Traveling
mechanisms of cantilever and monorail cranes; Design considerations for structures of
rotary cranes with fixed radius; Fixed post and overhead traveling cranes; Stability of
stationary rotary and traveling rotary cranes.
ASRS
Introduction to ASRS and AGVS
UNIT V
LOAD LIFTING ATTACHMENTS
Load chains and types of ropes used in material handling system; Forged, Standard
and ramshorn hooks; Crane grabs and clamps; Grab buckets; Electromagnet; Design
consideration for conveyor belts; Application of attachments.
STUDY OF SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENTS USED FOR MATERIAL STORAGE
Objectives of storage; Bulk material handling; Gravity flow of solids through slides and
chutes; Storage in bins and hoppers; Belt conveyors; Bucket-elevators; Screw
conveyors; Vibratory conveyors; Cabin conveyors; Mobile racks etc.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Operations Management A Quantitative Approach by P.B.Mahapatra,Publisher:
Prentice Hall International.
2. Operations Management by S.Anil Kumar, N.Suresh,Publisher: New Age
Publishers.
3. Material Handling Equipment by N. Rudenko; Publisher: Peace publishers.
4. Facility Layout, Location and Analytical Approach by R.L. Francis, L.F. McLinnis
Jr., White; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
5. Aspects of Material Handling by Dr.K.C.Arora&Shinde; Publisher:Lakshmi
Publications.
177
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. ME& AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 1 3
(13MED040) COMPUTATIONAL FLUID DYNAMICS
Course Prerequisite: C Programming skills, Numerical Methods, Fluid Mechanic.
Course Objectives:
• Understand different methods involved in solving problem numerically
• Formulate different kinds of physical problems with the different schemes and
boundary conditions
• Develop a code in a programming language to numerically solve a practical
problem
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Solve fluid flow and heat transfer problems using numerical methods &
Programming
• Conduct the stability analysis and check the applicability of different schemes
• Write algorithms to solve the complex non linear equations numerically and able
to do a project demonstrating your understanding
UNIT I
ELEMENTARY DETAILS IN NUMERICAL TECHNIQUES
Number system and errors, representation of integers, fractions, floating point
arithmetic, loss of significance and error propagation, condition for instability,
computational methods for error estimation, convergence of sequences.
APPLIED NUMERICAL METHODS
Solution of a system of simultaneous Linear Algebraic Equations, iterative schemes of
Matrix Inversion, Direct Methods for Matrix inversion, Direct Methods for banded
matrices.
UNIT II
FINITE DIFFERENCE APPLICATIONS IN HEAT CONDUCTION AND CONVECTION
Heat conduction, steady heat conduction in a rectangular geometry, transient heat
conduction, finite difference application in convective heat transfer, closure.
Finite Differences, discretization, consistency, stability, and Fundamentals of fluid flow
modeling: Introduction, elementary finite difference quotients, implementation aspects
of finite-difference equations, consistency, explicit and implicit methods.
UNIT III
INTRODUCTION TO FIRST ORDER WAVE EQUATION
Stability of hyperbolic and elliptic equations, fundamentals of fluid flow modeling,
conservative property, the upwind scheme.
178
R13
UNIT IV
REVIEW OF EQUATIONS GOVERNING FLUID FLOW AND HEAT TRANSFER
Introduction, conservation of mass, Newton’s second law of motion, expanded forms of
Navier-stokes equations, conservation of energy principle, special forms of the Navier-
stokes equations.
UNIT V
FINITE VOLUME METHOD
Approximation of surface integrals, volume integrals, interpolation and differentiation
practices, upwind interpolation, linear interpolation and quadratic interpolation.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Numerical heat transfer and fluid flow / Suhas V. Patankar/Hemashava Publishers
Corporation &McGraw Hill.
2. Computational Fluid Flow and Heat Transfer/ Muralidaran/Narosa Publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Computational Fluid Dynamics: Basics with applications/John D. Anderson/
McGraw Hill.
2. Fundamentals of Computational Fluid Dynamics/Tapan K. Sengupta / Universities
Press.
3. Introduction to Theoretical and Computational Fluid Dynamics/C. Pozrikidis/Oxford
University Press/2nd Edition.
179
R13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech. ME& AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 1 3
(13MED043) DESIGN OF AIRCRAFT STRUCTURES
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Mechanics, Theory of Machines, Machine Design
and Manufacturing Technology
Course Objectives:
• Understand design process and design of Aircraft structures
• Understand materials and manufacturing processes applicable to Aircraft industry
• Understand maintenance of Aircrafts and criteria of certification of Aircrafts
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Design and analyze Aircraft structure
• Decide material and manufacturing process applicable to Aircraft industry
• Design maintenance programs for Aircrafts
UNIT I
OVERVIEW OF THE AIRCRAFT DESIGN PROCESS
Introduction, Phases of Aircraft Design, Aircraft Conceptual Design Process,
Conceptual Stage, Preliminary Design, Detailed Design, Design Methodologies.
FUNDAMENTALS OF STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS
Review of Hooke’s Law, Principal stresses, Equilibrium and Compatibility, Determinate
Structures, St Venant’s Principle, Conservation of Energy, Stress Transformation,
Stress Strain Relations.
UNIT II
INTRODUCTION TO AIRCRAFT STRUCTURES
Types of Structural members of Fuselage and wing section Ribs, Spars, Frames,
Stringers, Longeron, Splices, Sectional Properties of structural members and their
loads, Types of structural joints, Type of Loads on structural joints.
AIRCRAFT LOADS
Aerodynamic Loads, Inertial Loads, Loads due to engine, Actuator Loads, Maneuver
Loads, VN diagrams, Gust Loads, Ground Loads, Ground conditions, Miscellaneous
Loads.
UNIT III
AIRCRAFT MATERIALS AND MANUFACTURING PROCESSES
Material selection criteria, Aluminum Alloys, Titanium Alloys, Steel Alloys, Magnesium
Alloys, copper Alloys, Nimonic Alloys, Non Metallic Materials, Composite Materials,
Use of Advanced materials Smart materials, Manufacturing of A/C structural members,
Overview of Types of manufacturing processes for Composites, Sheet metal
Fabrication ,Machining, Welding, Superplastic Forming And Diffusion Bonding.
180
R13
UNIT IV
STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS OF AIRCRAFT STRUCTURES
Theory of Plates- Analysis of plates for bending, stresses due to bending, Plate
deflection under different end conditions, Strain energy due to bending of circular,
rectangular plates, Plate buckling, Compression buckling, shear buckling, Buckling due
to in plane bending moments, Analysis of stiffened panels in buckling, Rectangular
plate buckling, Analysis of Stiffened panels in Post buckling, Post buckling under
shear, Sample Exercises. Theory of Shells-Analysis of Shell Panels for Buckling,
Compression loading, Shear Loading / Shell Shear Factor, Circumferential Buckling
Stress, Sample Exercises. Theory of Beams-Symmetric Beams in Pure Bending,
Deflection of beams, Unsymmetrical Beams in Bending, Plastic Bending of beams,
Shear Stresses due to Bending in Thin Walled Beams, Bending of Open Section
Beams, Bending of Closed Section Beams, Shear Stresses due to Torsion in Thin
Walled Beams. Sample Exercises. Theory of Torsion- Shafts of Non-Circular Sections,
Torsion in Closed Section Beams, Torsion in Open Section Beams, Multi Cell Sections,
Sample Exercises.
UNIT V
AIRWORTHINESS AND AIRCRAFT CERTIFICATION
Definition, Airworthiness Regulations, Regulatory Bodies, Type certification, General
Requirements, Requirements Related to Aircraft Design Covers, Performance and
Flight Requirements, Airframe Requirements, Landing Requirements, Fatigue and
Failsafe requirements, Emergency Provisions, Emergency Landing requirements
AIRCRAFT STRUCTURAL REPAIR
Types of Structural damage, Nonconformance, Rework, Repair, Allowable damage
Limit, Repairable Damage Limit, Overview of ADL Analysis, Types of Repair, Repair
Considerations and best practices
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Aircraft Systems: Mechanical, Electrical and Avionics Subsystems Integration by
Ian Moir, Allan Seabridge.
2. Aircraft Design - A Conceptual Approach by Daniel P.Raymer, AIAA education
series,6th Edition.
3. Airframe Structural Design by Michael Niu, Conmilit Press, 1988,2nd Edition.
4. Airframe Stress Analysis and Sizing by Michael Niu, Conmilit Press, 1999,3rd
Edition.
REFERENCES:
1. Flight without Formulae by A.C Kermode, Pearson Education,10th Edition.
2. Mechanics of Flight by A.C Kermode, Pearson Education,5th Edition.
3. Fundamentals of Flight, Shevell, Pearson Education, 2nd Edition.
4. Introduction to Flight by Dave Anderson.
5. The Elements of Aircraft Preliminary Design – Roger D. Schaufele, Aries
Publications, 2000.
181
R13
6. Aircraft Structural Maintenance by Dale Hurst, Avotek publishers, 2nd Edition,
2006.
7. Aircraft Maintenance and Repair by Frank Delp, Michael J. Kroes & William A.
Watkins, Glencoe and McGraw-Hill,6th Edition, 1993.
8. An Introduction to Aircraft Certification; A Guide to Understanding Jaa, Easa and
FAA by Filippo De Florio, Butterworth-Heinemann.
182
