SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/R13/R13CE.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
Civil Engineering
B.TECH. FOUR YEAR DEGREE CCOOUURRSSEE
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2013-2200114)
VVNNRR VVIIGGNNAANNAA JJYYOOTTHHII IINNSSTTIITTUUTTEE OOFF
EENNGGIINNEEEERRIINNGG AANNDD TTEECCHHNNOOLLOOGGYY
An Autonomous Institute
Approved by AICTE & Affiliated to JNTUH
Accredited by NBA and NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
Bachupally, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500090, Teellaannggaannaa State, India
Phone: 040-23042758/59/60; FAX: 040-2233004422776611
E-Mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: wwwwww..vvnnrrvvjjiieett..aacc..iinn
VNR VIGNANA JJYYOOTTHHII IINNSSTTIITTUUTTEE OOFF EENNGGIINNEEEERRIINNGG AANNDD TTEECCHHNNOOLLOOGGYY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
Approved by AICTE & Affiliated to JNTUH
Accredited by NBA and NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
AACCAADDEEMMIICC RREEGGUULLAATTIIOONNSS FFOORR BB..TTEECCHH.. DDEEGGRREEEE CCOOUURRSSEE
((AApppplliiccaabbllee ffoorr SSttuuddeennttss aaddmmiitttteedd ffrroomm tthhee aaccaaddeemmiicc yyeeaarr 22001133-2014)
1. Courses of study
TThhee ffoolllloowwiinngg ccoouurrsseess ooff ssttuuddyy aarree ooffffeerreedd aatt pprreesseenntt ffoorr ssppeecciiaalliizzaattiioonn ffoorr tthhee BB..
Tech. Course:
Branch
Branch
Code
01 Civil Engineering.
02 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
03 Mechanical Engineering
04 EElleeccttrroonniiccss aanndd CCoommmmuunniiccaattiioonn EEnnggiinneeeerriinngg
05 Computer Science and Engineering.
10 EElleeccttrroonniiccss aanndd IInnssttrruummeennttaattiioonn EEnnggiinneeeerriinngg
12 Information Technology
24 Automobile Engineering
1.1 Eligibility Criteria for Admission
• TThhee eelliiggiibbiilliittyy ccrriitteerriiaa ffoorr aaddmmiissssiioonn iinnttoo eennggiinneeeerriinngg pprrooggrraammmmeess sshhaallll
be as mentioned below:
• The candidate shall be an Indian National / NRI
• TThhee ccaannddiiddaattee sshhoouulldd hhaavvee ccoommpplleetteedd 1166 yyeeaarrss ooff aaggee aass oonn 3311sstt
December of tthhee aaccaaddeemmiicc yyeeaarr ffoorr wwhhiicchh tthhee aaddmmiissssiioonnss aarree bbeeiinngg
conducted.
• TThhee CCaannddiiddaattee sshhoouulldd hhaavvee ppaasssseedd tthhee qquuaalliiffyyiinngg eexxaammiinnaattiioonn ((1100++22)) oorr
equivalent as on the date of admission
2
1.1 .1 Seats in each programme in the Institution are classified into Category A and
Category B as per the G.Os.
a) Category – A Seats
These seats will be filled through counseling as per the rank at the Common
Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by the State Government and as per
other admission criteria laid down in the G.Os.
1.1.2 Category - B Seats
These seats will be filled by the institute as per the G.Os Issued by State
Government from time to time.
1.1.3 Category: Lateral Entry
The candidate shall be admitted into the Third Semester, (2nd year, Ist
Semester) based on the rank secured by the candidate at Engineering
Common Entrance Test (ECET (FDH)) by the Convener, ECET.
2. Distribution and Weightage of Marks
i. The performance of a student in each Semester shall be evaluated subject –
wise with a maximum of 100 marks for theory and 100 marks for
practical subjects. In addition, an Industry oriented mini-project, Seminar,
Comprehensive viva-voce, and Project Work shall be evaluated for 100, 100,
100 and 200 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects the distribution shall be 30 marks for Mid Semester
Evaluation and 70 marks for the End Semester Examination. For theory
subjects, two mid examinations will be conducted in each Semester as per
the academic calendar. Each mid examination is evaluated for 25 marks.
For the Mid-Examination the Distribution of Marks (25 Marks) as follows
Part-A: - 4 Marks (4X1 Marks) Compulsory
6 Marks (3X2 Marks) Compulsory
Part-B:- 15 Marks (3X5 Marks) 3 out of 4 Questions
Assignment Test/Assignment: - Two assignments are to be given to
students covering the syllabus of First Mid and Second Mid Examinations
respectively and are evaluated for 5 marks each.
The first assignment shall be submitted after first mid examinations and
second Assignment should be submitted after second mid examination.
At the end of the Semester, Internal Marks (Maximum 30) for the respective
subject is assigned as follows:
(a) 25 marks: 80% from the best performed mid examination and 20% from
the other mid examination.
(b) 5 marks: Average of the two assignments/assignment tests
iii. For practical subjects there shall be a continuous evaluation during the
Semester for 30 marks and 70 marks for end examination. Out of the 30
marks, day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be evaluated for 10
3
marks, and 10 marks for practical examination and 10 marks for laboratory
record.
NOTE: A. Student who is absent for any assignment/Mid-term examination for
any reason what so ever shall be deemed to have secured ‘zero’ marks
in the test/examination and no makeup test/examination shall be
conducted.
B. If any student absent for mid exam due to Medical/Acute illness
same may be reported in advance to Head of the Department in writing
with a request to reconduct the mid-term examination. The committee
consisting of HOD/Dean-Academics/Dean-Examinations will take the
final decision on the conduct of mid-term examination.
iv For the subjects having design and / or drawing, (such as Engineering
Graphics, Engineering Drawing, Machine Drawing, Production Drawing
Practice, and Estimation etc.,) the distribution shall be 30 marks for internal
evaluation (15 marks for day-to-day work and 15 marks for Mid
examination (the average of the two examinations will be taken into
account) and 70 marks for end semester examination.
V There shall be an industry-oriented mini-Project, in collaboration with an
industry of their specialization, to be taken up during the summer vacation
after III year II Semester examination. The industry oriented mini project
shall be evaluated during the IV year I Semester. The industry oriented
mini project shall be submitted in report form and should be presented before
a committee, which shall be evaluated for 100 marks. The committee
consists of Head of the Department, the supervisor of mini project and a
senior faculty member of the department. There shall be no mid-term
assessment for industry oriented mini project. However, attending the
shadow engineering program is a pre – requisite for evaluating
industry – oriented mini project. Students should submit a report on
course outcomes of the shadow engineering and Engineer in Mirror. Every
student should attend shadow engineering and Engineer in Mirror
programme in an industry for not more than a week days during second year
and third year respectively.
vi. There shall be a Seminar presentation in IV year II Semester. For the
Seminar, the student shall collect the information on a specialized topic other
than the project topic and prepare a technical report, showing his
understanding of the topic, and submit to the department, which shall be
evaluated by a Departmental committee consisting of the Head of the
department, Seminar supervisor and a senior faculty member. The seminar
will be evaluated for 100 marks based on the report and presentation
made.
4
vii. There shall be a Comprehensive Viva-Voce in IV year II Semester. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce will be conducted by a Committee consisting of
the Head of the Department and three Senior Faculty members of the
Department after submitting M.T.P record in complete. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce is aimed to assess the student’s understanding in
various subjects studied during the B.Tech course of study. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce is evaluated for 100 marks by the Committee.
There will be no Midterm assessment for the Comprehensive viva-voce.
viii. The Project work shall be started by the student in the beginning of the IV
year I Semester. Out of a total of 200 marks for the project work, 60 marks
shall be for Midterm Evaluation and 140 marks for the Semester end
Examination. The viva-voce shall be conducted by a committee comprising
of an external examiner, Head of the Department and the project supervisor
and one senior faculty. The evaluation of project work shall be conducted at
the end of the IV year II Semester. The Midterm Evaluation shall be on
the basis of three Seminars conducted during the IV year II Semester
for 30 marks by the committee consisting of Head of the Department,
project supervisor and senior faculty member of the Department and
for 30 marks by the supervisor of the project.
3. Semester end Examination
(a) Theory Courses
Each course is evaluated for 70 marks. Examination is of 3 hours duration.
Question Paper Pattern is as follows
Part A:- 30 Marks Compulsory
5X1Marks (One question from each unit)
5X2Marks (One question from each unit)
5X3Marks (One question from each unit)
Part B:- 40 Marks (4 out of 6 questions) (At least one question from
each unit)
(b) Practical Courses
Each lab course is evaluated for 70 marks. The examination shall be
conducted by the laboratory teacher and another senior teacher concerned
with the subject of the same/other department/Industry. One of examiner will
be appointed by the Controller of Examinations in consultation with HOD as
and when required and is evaluated as per standard format.
5
(c ) Supplementary Examinations
Supplementary Examinations will be conducted for the current semester
after the declaration of the results of the regular examination of that
semester.
4. Attendance Requirements
i. A student shall be eligible to appear for the Semester end examinations if he
/ she acquire a minimum of 75% of attendance in aggregate of all the
subjects for Semester.
ii. Condonation of shortage of attendance in aggregate up to 10% (65% and
above and below 75%) in a semester may be granted by Institute Academic
Committee.
iii. A student will not be permitted to write the end examination and not
promoted to the next Semester unless he satisfies the attendance
requirement of the present Semester, as applicable. He may seek re-
admission for that Semester when offered next.
iv. Shortage of Attendance below 65% in aggregate shall in NO case be
condoned.
v. Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned / not paid the
stipulated fee in any Semester are not eligible to take their end semester
examination of that Semester.
5. Minimum Academic Requirements
The following academic requirements have to be satisfied in addition to the
attendance requirements mentioned in item No.4.
i. A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic
requirements and earned the credits allotted to each theory or practical
design or drawing subject or project, if he secures not less than 35% (25
out of 70 marks) of marks in the end examination and a minimum of
40% of marks in the sum total of the Midterm evaluation and end
semester examination taken together.
ii. A student shall be promoted from II to III year only if he fulfills the
academic requirement of getting 50 credits from the examinations held
upto II Year II Semester including Supplementary examinations of II
B.Tech II Semester.
iii. A student shall be promoted from III year to IV year only if he fulfills the
academic requirement of getting a total of 75 credits from the
examinations held upto III Year II Semester including Supplementary
examinations of III B.Tech II Semester .
6
Iv. A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 200
credits and earn atleast 192 credits. Marks obtained in these credits shall be
considered for the calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA)
and percentage of marks.
v. The student should obtain two certificate courses during his/her course of
study
vi. Students who fail to earn atleast 192 credits as indicated in the course
structure within eight academic years from the year of their admission
shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech. Course and their admission stand
Cancelled.
6. Course pattern
i. The entire course of study is of four academic years. All I, II, III and IV
years are of Semester pattern.
ii. A student eligible to appear for the end semester examination in a subject,
but absent or has failed in the end semester examination may reappear for
that subject at the supplementary examination whenever conducted.
iii. When a student is detained due to shortage of attendance in any Semester,
he may be re-admitted into that Semester when it is offered next, with the
academic regulations of the batch into which he gets readmitted.
iv. When a student is detained due to lack of credits in any year, he may be
eligible for promotion to the next year after obtaining required number of
credits and fulfillment of the academic requirements.
Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
A student will be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. Degree if
he/she fulfils the following academic regulations:
i) Pursued a course of study for not less than four academic years and not
more than eight academic years.
ii) Registered for 200 credits and secured a minimum of 192 credits with
compulsory subjects as listed in Table.
Table: Compulsory Subjects
Serial Number Subject Particulars
1. All Practical Subjects
2. Industry oriented mini project
3. Comprehensive Viva-Voce
4. Seminar
5. Project work
7
iii) The student should obtain two certificate courses during his/her course of study
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award of
the degree within eight academic years from the year of their admission,
shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech. Course.
7. CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points:
The absolute grading method is followed, based on the total marks obtained in
internal and external examinations. Grades and grade points are assigned as per
the Table given below
B.Tech Program: The Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the total
marks obtained in internal and external examinations. Grades and Grade points
are assigned as given below
Description Grade Points(GP)
Marks Obtained Grade
of Grade Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A+ Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 A Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 B Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 C Fair 6.00
>=40 and <49.99 D Pass 5.00
<40 F Remedial
Not Appeared the
N Absent
Exam(s)
The student is eligible for the award of the B.Tech degree with the class as
mentioned in the Table.
CGPA CLASS
>= 7.5 First Class with Distinction
>= 6.5 and <7.5 First class
>= 5.5 and < 6.5 Second Class
>=5.0 and < 5.5 Pass class
8
Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
The performance of each ssttuuddeenntt aatt tthhee eenndd ooff tthhee eeaacchh sseemmeesstteerr iiss iinnddiiccaatteedd iinn
terms of SGPA. The SGPA is calculated as below:
Where ‘Ci’ = Number of Credits allotted to particular subject ‘I’
‘‘GGii’’ == GGrraaddee PPooiinntt ccoorrrreessppoonnddiinngg ttoo tthhee lleetttteerr ggrraaddee aawwaarrddeedd iinn tthhaatt
subject ‘i”
‘‘ii””== 11,,22,,……....PP rreepprreesseenntt tthhee nnuummbbeerr ooff ssuubbjjeeccttss ffoorr tthhaatt ppaarrttiiccuullaarr sseemmeesstteerr
* SSGGPPAA iiss ccaallccuullaatteedd aanndd aawwaarrddeedd ffoorr tthhee ccaannddiiddaatteess wwhhoo ppaassss aallll tthhee
courses in a semester.
CCaallccuullaattiioonn ooff CCuummuullaattiivvee GGrraaddee PPooiinntt AAvveerraaggee ((CCGGPPAA)) ffoorr EEnnttiirree
Programme. The CGPA is calculated as below:
AAsssseessssmmeenntt ooff tthhee oovveerraallll ppeerrffoorrmmaannccee ooff aa ssttuuddeenntt iiss oobbttaaiinneedd bbyy ccaallccuullaattiinngg
CCuummuullaattiivvee GGrraaddee PPooiinntt AAvveerraaggee ((CCGGPPAA)),, wwhhiicchh iiss wweeiigghhtteedd aavveerraagge of the
grade points obtained in all subjects during the course of study.
Where Ci= Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘I”
GGii == GGrraaddee PPooiinntt ccoorrrreessppoonnddiinngg ttoo tthhee lleetttteerr ggrraaddee aawwaarrddeedd iinn tthhaatt ssuubbjjeecctt ‘‘ii””
I= 1,2,….m represent the numbeerr ooff ssuubbjjeeccttss ooff tthhee eennttiirree pprrooggrraamm..
GGrraaddee lloowweerr tthhaann DD iinn aannyy ssuubbjjeecctt iiss nnoott ccoonnssiiddeerreedd ffoorr CCGGPPAA ccaallccuullaattiioonn.. TThhee
CCGGPPAA iiss aawwaarrddeedd oonnllyy wwhheenn tthhee ssttuuddeenntt aaccqquuiirreess tthhee rreeqquuiirreedd nnuummbbeerr ooff ccrreeddiittss
prescribed for the program.
Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
dd)) TToottaall nnuummbbeerr ooff ccrreeddiittss eeaarrnneedd bbyy tthhee ssttuuddeenntt uupp ttoo tthhee eenndd ooff tthhaatt sseemmeesstteerr..
e) Award list indicating the marks awarded to the student.
9
8. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to College, or if any case of indiscipline is
pending against him, the result of the candidate may be withheld. The award or
issue of the Degree may also be withheld in such cases.
9. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or
any other academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and
when they become eligible. They have to take up Equivalent subjects, as
substitute subject in place of repetition of subjects as decided by the BoS
chairman of the respective department. He/She will be admitted under the
regulation of the batch in which he/she is readmitted.
10. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each Semester shall be 90 instruction days.
11. There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission process.
12. The decision of the Institute Academic Committee will be final in respect of
equivalent subjects for those students who are transferred from other
colleges. The transfer of students from other college or from this institute is
to approved by the Governing Council.
13. General
i. Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include
“she”, “her”, “hers”.
ii. The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
iii. In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arises in the above rules
and regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
iv. The Chairmen Academic Council may change or amend any or all of the
academic regulations or syllabi at any time and the changes or amendments
made shall be applicable to all the students concerned with effect from the
dates notified by the College.
14. Academic Regulations for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2013-2014)
(i) Registered for 150 credits and secured a minimum of 142 credits with
compulsory subjects as listed in table.
10
Table: Compulsory Subjects
Serial Number Subject Particulars
1. All Practical Subjects
2. Industry oriented mini project
3. Comprehensive Viva-Voce
4. Seminar
5. Project work
(ii) A student who fails to earn a minimum of 142 credits as indicated in the
course structure within six academic years from the year of their admission
shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech. programme and their admission stands
cancelled.
(iii) The same attendance regulations are adopted as that of B.Tech. Four year
degree course.
(iv) A student shall be promoted from Third year to Fourth year only on fulfilling
the academic requirements of securing 50 credits from the examinations
held upto III B.Tech II Semester including Supplementary Examinations.
(v) All other regulations as applicable to B.Tech. four year degree course will
hold good for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme).
15. Malpractice Rules
Disciplinary Action for Malpractices/Improper Conduct in Examinations
Nature of Malpractices/Improper Punishment
conduct
If the candidate:
1. (a) Possesses or keeps accessible in Expulsion from the examination hall and
examination hall, any paper, note cancellation of the performance in that
book, programmable calculators, Cell subject only.
phones, pager, palm computers or
any other form of material concerned
with or related to the subject of the
examination (theory or practical) in
which he is appearing but has not
made use of (material shall include
any marks on the body of the
candidate which can be used as an
aid in the subject of the examination)
(b)Gives assistance or guidance or Expulsion from the examination hall and
receives it from any other candidate cancellation of the performance in that
11
orally or by any other body language subject only of all the candidates
methods or communicates through involved. In case of an outsider, he will
cell phones with any candidate or be handed over to the police and a case
persons in or outside the exam hall in is registered against him.
respect of any matter.
2. Has copied in the examination hall Expulsion from the examination hall and
from any paper, book, programmable cancellation of the performance in that
calculators, palm computers or any subject and all other subjects the
other form of material relevant to the candidate has already appeared
subject of the examination (theory or including practical examinations and
practical) in which the candidate is project work and shall not be permitted
appearing. to appear for the remaining
examinations of the subjects of that
Semester/year.
The Hall Ticket of the candidate is to be
cancelled.
3. Impersonates any other candidate in The candidate who has impersonated
connection with the examination. shall be expelled from examination hall.
The candidate is also debarred and
forfeits the seat. The performance of the
original candidate who has been
impersonated, shall be cancelled in all
the subjects of the examination
(including practicals and project work)
already appeared and shall not be
allowed to appear for examinations of
the remaining subjects of that
semester/year. The candidate is also
debarred for two consecutive semesters
from class work and all end semester
examinations. The continuation of the
course by the candidate is subject to the
academic regulations in connection with
forfeiture of seat. If the imposter is an
outsider, he will be handed over to the
police and a case is registered against
him.
12
4. Smuggles the Answer book or Expulsion from the examination hall and
additional sheet or takes out or cancellation of performance in that
arranges to send out the question subject and all the other subjects the
paper during the examination or candidate has already appeared
answer book or additional sheet, including practical examinations and
during or after the examination. project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class work
and all end semester examinations. The
continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the academic
regulations in connection with forfeiture
of seat.
5. U s e s o b j e c t i o n a b le , a b u s i v e o r C a n c e l l a t io n o f t h e p e r f o r m a n c e in that
offensive language in the answer subject.
paper or in letters to the examiners or
writes to the examiner requesting him
to award pass marks.
6. Refuses to obey the orders of the In case of students of the college, they
Chief Superintendent/Assistant – shall be expelled from examination halls
Superintendent / any officer on duty and cancellation of their performance in
or misbehaves or creates disturbance that subject and all other subjects the
of any kind in and around the candidate(s) has (have) already
examination hall or organizes a walk appeared and shall not be permitted to
out or instigates others to walk out, or appear for the remaining examinations
threatens the officer-in charge or any of the subjects of that semester/year.
person on duty in or outside the The candidates are also debarred and
examination hall of any injury to his forfeit their seats. In case of outsiders,
person or to any of his relations they will be handed over to the police
whether by words, either spoken or and a police case is registered against
written or by signs or by visible them.
representation, assaults the officer-in-
charge, or any person on duty in or
outside the examination hall or any of
his relations, or indulges in any other
act of misconduct or mischief which
result in damage to or destruction of
13
property in the examination hall or
any part of the College campus or
engages in any other act which in the
opinion of the officer on duty amounts
to use of unfair means or misconduct
or has the tendency to disrupt the
orderly conduct of the examination.
7. Leaves the exam hall taking away Expulsion from the examination hall and
answer script or intentionally tears of cancellation of performance in that
the script or any part thereof inside or subject and all the other subjects the
outside the examination hall. candidate has already appeared
including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class work
and all end semester examinations
including supplementary Examinations.
The continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the academic
regulations in connection with forfeiture
of seat.
8. Possess any lethal weapon or firearm Expulsion from the examination hall and
in the examination hall. cancellation of the performance in that
subject and all other subjects the
candidate has already appeared
including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred and forfeits
the seat.
9. If student of the college, who is not a If the student belongs to the college,
candidate for the particular expulsion from the examination hall and
examination or any person not cancellation of the performance in that
connected with the college indulges in subject and all other subjects the
any malpractice or improper conduct candidate has already appeared
mentioned in clause 6 to 8. including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be permitted
14
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred and forfeits
the seat.
Person(s) who do not belong to
the College will be handed over to police
and, a police case will be registered
against them.
10. Comes in a drunken condition to the Expulsion from the examination hall and
examination hall. cancellation of the performance in that
subject and all other subjects the
candidate has already appeared
including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year.
11. Copying detected on the basis of Cancellation of the performance in that
internal evidence, such as, during subject and all other subjects the
valuation or during special scrutiny. candidate has appeared including
practical examinations and project work
of that semester/year.
12. If any malpractice is detected which is
not covered in the above clauses 1 to
11 shall be reported to the academic
council of the Institute for further
action to award suitable punishment.
Malpractices identified by squad or special invigilators
Punishments to the candidates as per the above guidelines.
Malpractice identified at Spot center during valuation
The following procedure is to be followed in the case of malpractice cases detected
during valuation, scrutiny etc. at spot center.
1) Malpractice is detected at the spot valuation. The case is to be referred to
the malpractice committee. Malpractice committee will meet and
discuss/question the candidate and based on the evidences, the committee
will recommend suitable action on the candidate.
2) A notice is to be served to the candidate(s) involved through the Principal to
his address and to the candidate(s) permanent address regarding the
malpractice and seek explanations.
15
3) The involvement of staff who are in charge of conducting examinations,
invigilators valuing examination papers and preparing / keeping records of
documents relating to the examinations in such acts (inclusive of providing in
correct or misleading information) that infringe upon the course of natural
justice to one and all concerned at the examinations shall be viewed
seriously and recommended for award of appropriate punishment after
thorough enquire.
4) Based on the explanation and recommendation of the committee action may
be initiated.
5) Malpractice committee:
i. Principal Chairman
ii. Controller of Examinations Convener
iii. Invigilator Member
iv. Chief Examiner of the subject/subject expert Member
v. Concerned Heads of the Department Member
16
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
An Autonomous Institute
Nizampet (S.O.), Hyderabad – 90
Program Education Objectives (PEOs)
I. To provide students with a solid foundation in Basic Sciences, Mathematics
to analyze, synthesize and evaluate information to achieve expertise in core
areas of civil engineering.
II. To provide students, the modern professional practices such as abilities for
effective communication, collaborative work in diverse teams, ethical
decision making, successful management of personal and professional
career objectives and continuous development through life- long learning.
III. To prepare the students to achieve a high level technical expertise in the
fields of Geo- Technical Engineering, Water Resources Engineering,
Transportation Engineering, and Environmental Engineering to excel in the
design and construction of various types of Foundations, Dams, Flexible &
Rigid pavements, Water supply & Sanitary systems etc.
IV. To provide expertise through learning advanced courses in various streams
of civil engineering, the elective subjects are offered with a view to make the
students full-fledged to pursue higher studies and research.
V. To provide opportunities for students to learn multidisciplinary subjects such
as Basic Electrical & Electronics Engineering, C & Data Structures to make
them a complete engineer.
VI. To establish Excellent acquaintance with the practical implementation of the
theoretical concepts through laboratories, by bringing the real world into the
academics through virtual industry labs and to enhance experimental skills of
students even beyond curriculum so as to encourage them to carryout mini
and major projects.
VII. Lifelong Learning: Graduates of the program will be prepared to continue
their professional development based on their awareness of professional
society activities, professional licensure requirements, and opportunities for
further education in graduate school.
Program Outcomes (POs)
The program demonstrates that:
a. Engineering Knowledge: The student is capable of applying the principles of
basic sciences and mathematics in learning the civil engineering subjects.
Graduates will be proficient in the core principles of Civil Engineering as they
pertain to the sub-fields of Structural Engineering, Water
17
Resources Engineering, Transportation Engineering, Geotechnical Engineering
and Environmental Engineering and will be able to apply these principles
in engineering practice.
b. Problem Analysis: Graduates will possess critical thinking skills, problem
solving abilities, and familiarity with the computational procedures essential to
the field.
c. Design & Development of Solutions: The student is able to plan, analyse,
design and look after the construction of various types of civil engineering
structures with appropriate consideration for public health and safety and
cultural, societal and environmental considerations.
d. Conduct investigations of complex problems: Use research based
knowledge and research methods including design and conduct experiments
and to analyze and interpret experimental data.
e. Modern Tool Usage: The student gets hands on training on the various
surveying instruments like Dupy level, Theodolite and modern surveying
instruments like Total Station and can prepare layouts, plans and carry out the
detailed estimates of buildings, roads and canals.
f. The Engineer and Society: Apply reasoning informed by the appropriate
knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the
consequent responsibilities relevant to civil engineering practice.
g. Environment and Sustainability: As the students possess substantial
knowledge in multi disciplinary subjects, one can is able to plan the various
projects well, keeping in view of its environmental effects on other related
fields.
h. Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commitment to professional ethics and
responsibilities of their profession.
i. Individual and Team work: Capable of working productively as individual, as
member or leader in driver set teams and in multi disciplinary settings.
j. Communication: The student is turned out to be very Excellent in expressing
his ideas, writing excellent technical reports with Excellent communication skills
and managerial skills.
k. Project Management and Finance: Graduates will have demonstrated
knowledge and understanding of the critical issues for professional practice
such as the procurement of works and the interaction with contractors during
the construction phase of a project and the financial managerial capabilities.
l. Life-Long learning: Student will maintain an awareness of contemporary
issues and will contribute to the well being of their communities with life-long
learning in the broadest context of ever growing technology.
18
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING (R – 13)
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name L T/P/D Credits
Code
13MTH001 Advanced Calculus 3 1 3
13PHY001 Engineering Physics 3 1 3
13CHE002 Chemistry of Engineering Materials 3 0 3
13ITD076 Computer Programming & Data
3 0 3
Structures
13EEE076 Elements of Electrical & Mechanical
3 0 3
Engineering
13CED001 Engineering Mechanics - I 3 1 3
13CED113 Engineering Graphics – I 0 6 3
13ITD176 Computer Programming & Data
0 3 2
Structures Lab
13EPC101 Engg. Physics and Engg.Chemistry
0 3 2
Lab
Total 18 15 25
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name L T/P/D Credits
Code
Linear Algebra & Ordinary
13MTH002 3 1 3
Differential Equations
13PHY002 Physics of Materials 3 0 3
13ENG001 English 3 0 3
13CHE001 Engineering Chemistry 3 0 3
13CED003 Engineering Mechanics - II 3 1 3
13CED004 Environmental Studies 3 0 3
13CED114 Engineering Graphics – II 0 6 3
13MED103 IT & Engineering Workshop 0 3 2
English Language Communication Skills
13ENG101 0 3 2
Laboratory
Total 18 14 25
19
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING (R – 13)
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Subject Name L T/P/D C
Code
13MTH008 Probability & Statistics 3 1 3
13CMS001 Business Economics & Financial 4 0 4
Analysis
13CED006 Building Materials, Construction & 3 1 3
Planning
13CED007 Fluid Mechanics 4 0 4
13CED008 Strength of Materials - I 3 1 3
13CED009 Surveying 4 1 4
13CED101 Surveying Field Work - I 0 3 2
13CED102 Material Testing Lab 0 3 2
Total : 21 10 25
20
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING (R – 13)
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name L T/P/D C
Code
13MTH003
Numerical Analysis & Linear Programming 3 1 3
13CED010 Hydraulics & Hydraulic Machines 4 1 4
13CED011 Strength of Materials – II 4 1 4
13CED012 Concrete Technology 3 1 3
13CED013 Engineering Hydrology 3 1 3
13CED014 Structural Analysis - I 4 1 4
13CED103 Fluid Mechanics & Hydraulic Machines Lab 0 3 2
13CED104 Surveying Field Work - II 0 3 2
Total : 21 12 25
• T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
21
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING (R – 13)
III YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code
Subject Name L T/P/D C
13CED015 Irrigation Engineering 4 1 4
13CED016 Design of Reinforced Concrete 4 1 4
Structures
13CED017 Engineering Geology 3 0 3
13CED018 Geotechnical Engineering – I 4 0 4
13CED019 Structural Analysis - II 4 1 4
Engineering Geology Lab
13CED105 0 3 2
Computer Aided Drafting of Buildings
13CED106 0 3 2
13CED107 Concrete Lab 0 3 2
Total : 19 12 25
22
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING (R – 13)
III YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code
Subject Name L T/P/D C
13CED020 Design of Steel Structures 4 1 4
13CED021 Environmental Engineering-I 4 0 4
13CED022 Transportation Engineering 4 1 4
13CED023 Estimating & Costing 4 1 4
ELECTIVE - I
13CED024 Geotechnical Engineering – II
13CED025 Solid Waste Management
3 1 3
Advanced Structural Analysis
13CED026
13CED027 Environmental Impact Assessment
Building Maintenance & Repairs
13CED028
13CED108 Geotechnical Engineering Lab 0 3 2
13CED109 Transportation Engineering Lab 0 3 2
13ENG102 Advanced English Communication 0 3 2
Skills Lab
Total : 19 13 25
• T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
23
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING (R – 13)
IVYEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name L T/P/D C
13CED029 Finite Element Methods 4 1 4
13CED030 Elements of RS &GIS 3 1 3
13CED031 Environmental Engineering-II 4 1 4
ELECTIVE - II
13CED032 Pre stressed Concrete
13CED033 Ground Water Development & Management
3 1 3
13CED034 Design and Drawing of Hydraulic Structures
13CED035 Airport Planning & Design
Industrial Waste & Waste Water
13CED036 Management
OPEN ELECTIVE
13CED037 Disaster Management
13EEE015 Renewable Energy Sources
13MED077 Optimization techniques
3 0 3
13CSE076 Relational Database Management Systems
13CSE012 Cyber Security
13CED110 CAD Lab 0 3 2
13CED111 GIS Lab 0 3 2
13CED112 Environmental Engineering Lab 0 3 2
13CED201 Industry Oriented Mini Project 0 4 2
Total : 17 17 25
• T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
24
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING (R – 13)
IVYEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name L T/P/D C
13CED038 Pavement Analysis, Design & Evaluation 3 1 3
ELECTIVE – III
13CED039 Watershed Management
Construction Technology & Project
13CED040
Management
13CED041 Principles of Water quality Management
3 1 3
13CED042 Advanced Structural Design
13CED043 Traffic Engineering
ELECTIVE – IV
13CED044 Earthquake Resistant Design of Buildings
13CED045 Water Resources Planning & Management
13CED046 Geospatial Technology & Applications 3
3 1
13CED047 Air Pollution & Control
13CED048 Ground Improvement Techniques
13CED202 Project Work 0 18 12
13CED203 Technical Seminar 0 3 2
13CED204 Comprehensive viva - Voce 0 0 2
Total : 9 24 25
25
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech– I sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13MTH001) Advanced Calculus
Course prerequisites: Differentiation, integration
Course Objectives
• Understand Taylor’s theorem and its application to maxima and minima
of f(x,y)
• Understand the process of curve sketching
• Understand multiple integrals and its applications
• Apply the integral theorems of vector calculus
Course Outcomes
At the end of the course Student will be able to
• Solve problems involving the maxima and minima of f(x,y).
• Apply the curve tracing concepts to find arc length of curves, surface area,
volume of solids of revolution.
• Evaluate the multiple integrals using appropriate change of variables.
• Verify the integral theorems.
UNIT-I
Calculus of one and several real variables
Mean value thoerems – Rolle’s Thoerem, Lagrange’s Mean value thoerem Cauchy’s
Mean value theorem , Taylor’s expansion and McLaurin’s expansion of functions
(without proofs).
Partial differentiation, partial derivatives of first and second order in terms of partial
derivaties, Jacobian, Euler’s theorem on homogeneous functions, change of variables,
Taylor’s theorem of two variables(without proof) and its application. Maxima and
Minima of two variables, Langrange’s method of undeterrmined multipliers.
UNIT-II
Curve tracing and related applications
Curvature of curves in Cartesian, parametric and polar coordinates. Tracing of curves
in Cartesian, parametric and polar coordinates (like conics, astroid, hypocycloid,
Folium of Descartes, Cycloid, Circle, Cardiode, Lemniscate). Applications -finding area
under the curves, Length of the curves, volume and surface area of solids of revolution
UNIT-III
Multiple integrals
Introduction of Multiple integrals , evaluation of double and triple integrals, change of
order of integration change of variables , Cylindrical and Spherical polar coordinates.
26
Application to evaluation of plane areas, volumes and surface areas of solids of
revolution.
UNIT-IV
Vector Differential Calculus
Scalar and Vector point functions, Gradient, Divergence, Curl with geometrical &
physical interpretation, Directional derivatives, Properties.
UNIT-V
Vector Integral Calculus
Line integrals and application to Work done and Circulation, Scalar potential function,
Surface integrals and Volume integrals, Gauss divergence theorem, Green’s theorem ,
Stokes’ theorem (theorems without proof).
TEXT BOOKS
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – by B. S. Grewal,Khanna publishers
2. Calculus and Analytic Geometry by Thomas and Finney, 9th edition;
Publisher: Pearson Education.
REFERENCES :
1. Elementary Analysis: The Theory of Calculus by Kenneth Ross; Publisher:
Springer
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition; Publisher:
John Wiley.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter ‘O’ Neil, publisher: Cengage
Learning .
4. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa
Publications
27
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13PHY001)ENGINEERING PHYSICS
Course Objectives
• To supplement and enhance the basic concepts in Physics essentially
required in the study of materials as well as interaction of light with matter,
through physical phenomena like interference, diffraction and polarization.
• To know and understand some important applications of lasers and optical
fibers.
• To learn the importance of wave and particle nature of light and to
understand the behavior of an electron in one dimensional potential box.
• To understand the effect of temperature on Fermi Dirac Distribution Function
and also learn the behavior of an electron in a periodic potential, the new
concept of Effective mass of an electron and to know the classification of
materials into conductors, semiconductors and insulators.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course, the students will be able to:
• Understand the Phenomenon of Interference, Diffraction& Polarization.
• Learn the principle, working, construction and energy mechanism of various
lasers and their applications Explain the light signal propagation and
attenuation through optical fiber.
• Understand the differences between particle and wave nature, energy states
in one dimensional potential box and also the Consequences of
Heisenberg’s Uncertainty principle.
• Understand the one dimensional Schrodinger’s wave equation and the
effect of temperature on Fermi-Dirac Distribution, Kronig Penny model.
UNIT –1:
Interference
Superposition principle, resultant amplitude, coherence, methods to obtain coherent
sources, interference, Young’s double slit experiment, interference in thin films by
reflection, Newton’s rings Experiment.
Diffraction-I
Distinguish between Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction, diffraction at single slit
(Qualitative and Quantitative (Phasors approach)).
28
UNIT -2
Diffraction-II
Diffraction at double slit, circular aperture, and multiple slits (grating)( Qualitative
Approach), Resolution of spectral lines, Rayleigh criterion, and resolving power of
grating.
Polarization
Polarization phenomenon, Brewster’s Law and Malus law, examples, types of
polarization, double refraction, Nicol prism, Quarter and Half wave plates.
UNIT -3:
Lasers
Characteristics of Lasers – Spontaneous and Stimulated Emission of radiation, meta
stable state, population inversion, lasing action, Einstein’s coefficients and relation
between them –– Ruby Laser – Helium-Neon Laser –Semiconductor Laser –
Applications of lasers.
Fiber optics
Principle of optical fiber and properties – Acceptance angle and acceptance cone –
Numerical aperture –Types of fibers and refractive index profiles – Qualitative analysis
of attenuation in optical fibers –Application of optical fibers.
UNIT -4:
Elements of statistical mechanics
Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics (non-mathematical
treatment); Photon gas, Planck’s law of black body radiation; Deduction of Wien’s law
and Rayleigh-Jeans law from Plank’s law.
Principles of quantum mechanics
Waves and particles – De Broglie hypothesis - Matter waves - Davisson and Germer
experiment –Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle - Schrodinger Wave Equation – Wave
function and its Physical Significance - Particle in one dimensional potential box(wave
functions, probability densities and energy states).
UNIT -5
Free electron fermi gas
Energy levels in one dimension, Effect of temperature on the Fermi-Dirac distribution,
Free electron gas in three dimensions, electrical conductivity & Ohm’s law, Electrical
Resistivity of Metals (Qualitative).
Band theory of solids
Electron in a periodic potential; Bloch Theorem; Kronig-Penney model (non-
mathematical treatment); Origin of energy band formation in solids; Classification of
materials into conductors, semiconductors & Insulators; and Concept of effective mass
of an electron.
29
TEXT BOOKS
1. Physics vol.2, by Halliday, Resnick and Krane; John Wiley & Sons
2. Concepts of Modern physics by Arthur Beiser, McGraw Hill Inc.
3. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel : John Wiley & Sons
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Engineering Physics by R.K.Gaur and S.L.Gupta; Dhanpat Rai and Sons
2. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd.
3. Optics by Ghatak and Thyagarajan, Tata Mc Graw
4. Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
5. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers.
6. Introduction to Optical Communication by G. Keiser
7. Quantum Mechanics by Gupta Kumar Sharma
30
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE-I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13CHE002) CHEMISTRY OF ENGINEERING MATERIALS
Course Prerequisites: General chemistry
Course Objectives
• A sustainable energy supply, is needed for promoting economic
development as well as protecting the environment.
• Understanding the significance of various Engineering materials like cement
abrasives, adhesives and composites in structural enhancement of
materials.
• Exposure to refractories and ceramics in industries and most recently,
aerospace technology.
• Familiarize lubricants as a basic and fundamental necessity for the
maintenance of any machines.
Course Outcomes
At the end of the course student will be able to
• Acquire knowledge of the types of fuels, their sources and purification
techniques.
• Understand the manufacturing process of cement, its properties and usage
of abrasives, adhesives and composites in various industrial processes.
• Benefits of refractories as heat-resistant materials and applications of
ceramics in various fields.
• Knowledge of lubricants in regard to their applications in various machines.
UNIT-I
Energy sources
Fuels - classification (solid, liquid, gaseous), calorific value of fuel (HCV, LCV),
determination of calorific value by bomb calorimeter; Solid fuels – coal – analysis –
proximate and ultimate analysis and their significance; Liquid fuels – petroleum,
refining of petroleum, cracking, knocking, synthetic petrol – Bergius and Fischer-
Tropsch’s process. Biofuels- characteristics, biodiesel (preparation, properties and
applications); Gaseous fuels – natural gas, LPG, CNG (composition and uses),
Combustion – problems.
UNIT-II
Cement
Types of cement; Chemical constituents and composition of Portland cement;
Manufacturing methods of Portland cement (wet and dry processes); Properties of
cement - Setting & Hardening of cement (reactions); Decay of cement; Cement
concrete - RCC.
31
UNIT-III
Engineering materials
III a) Abrasives & Adhesives - Introduction, classification of abrasives, and their
applications. Criteria of a good adhesive, classification and their applications.
III b) Composites: Need for composites, classification and their applications.
UNIT-IV
Refractories and Ceramics
Refractories: Definition; Classification with examples; Characteristics of a good
refractory; Causes for the failure of a refractory material; Properties of refractories -
refractoriness, RUL test, porosity.
Ceramics: Introduction; Classification, Glazing and Applications of glazed & non
glazed ceramics.
UNIT-V
Lubricants
Criteria of a good lubricant; Classification of lubricants-lubricating oils; Greases or
semisolid lubricants; Solid lubricants; Mechanism of lubrication-fluid film lubrication,
boundary lubrication, and extreme pressure lubrication; Biodegradable lubricants:
types of biodegradable lubricants, advantages and disadvantages of biodegradable
lubricants. Properties of lubricants - viscosity, cloud point, pour point, flash & fire point,
mechanical stability, oiliness, and carbon residue.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, and Jyotsna
Cherukuri; Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain & Monica Jain; Publisher: Dhanpatrai.
3. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara & Mukkanti; Publisher:
S.Chand & Co.
REFERENCES
1. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna
2. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Balram Pani; Publisher: Galgotia
Publications Pvt.Ltd.
3. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Shashi Chawla Publisher: Dhanpat
rai &Co
4. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi, Cengage
Learning Publications.
5. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya,
Sulochana Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
32
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech CE, ME& AME -I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13ITD076)COMPUTER PROGRAMMING & DATA STRUCTURES
Course Objectives
• Gain a working knowledge of C data structure programming.
• Learn how to write modular, efficient and readable C and data structure
programs.
• Utilize pointers to efficiently solve problems.
• Utilize searching and sorting concepts to solve problem.
Course Outcomes
• Understand the basic terminology used in computer programming.
• Explain the difference between call by value and call by reference
• Design programs using searching and sorting techniques.
• Understand the dynamics of memory by the use of pointers.
UNIT – I
Introduction to Computers- Computer Systems, Computing Environments, Computer
languages, creating and running programs, Software Development Methods.
UNIT – II
Algorithm / pseudo code, flowchart, program development steps, structure of C
program, identifiers, basic data types, Constants, variables, operators, expressions,
precedence and order of evaluation.
Input-output statements, if and switch statements, loops- while, do-while and for
statements, break, continue, goto and labels, example C programs.
UNIT - III
Functions, basic concepts, parameter passing, storage classes, scope rules, user
defined functions, standard library functions, recursive functions, example C programs.
Arrays- Basic concepts, one-dimensional and two-dimensional arrays, Character
array, string handling functions, example C programs.
UNIT - IV
Derived types- structures- Basic concepts, nested structures, arrays of structures,
program examples.
pointers- Basic concepts, pointers and functions, pointers and strings, pointers and
arrays, pointers and structures, self referential structures, example C programs.
UNIT - V
Searching - Linear and binary search methods, sorting - Bubble sort, selection sort,
Insertion sort.
33
Introduction to data structures, Dynamic memory allocation, stacks and queues-
implementation using arrays.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Computer science, A structured programming approach using C, B.A.
Forouzan and R.F. Gilberg, Third edition, Thomson.
2. The C Programming Language, B.W. Kernighan, Dennis M.Ritchie,
PHI/Pearson Education
3. C Programming andData structures, E.Balagurusamy,TMH.
REFERENCES
1. Data Structures Using C - A.S.Tanenbaum, Y. Langsam, and M.J.
Augenstein, PHI/Pearson Education.
2. Programming in C - Stephen G. Kochan, III Edition, Pearson Eductaion.
3. Data Structures and Program Design in C, R.Kruse, C.L. Tondo, BP Leung,
Shashi M, Second Edition, Pearson Education.
34
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE-I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13EEE076) ELEMENTS OF ELECTRICAL & MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
Course Objectives
• Describe the importance of Electrical Power Generation and Transmission.
• Understand the utilization of electrical energy in illumination and traction
systems
• Understand the conventional, non-conventional and renewable energy
sources
• Understands the surface and air vehicles and their parts
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
• Understand the principle of Power Generation using Steam and Hydel Power
Plants.
• Appreciate the utilization of Electrical Energy in heating, welding, illumination
and traction systems.
• Aquire the knowledge of power systems
• Understand the motor transport vehicles
Elements of Electrical Engineering
UNIT-I
Electrical Power Systems
Electrical power generation concept-A.C Generator-principle; Steam Power Plant
(thermal power plant); Hydel Power Plant (layouts only), Efficiency; Transformer-
principle-need-types; Various methods of power transmission; Losses in power
transmission; Fuse -Substation-batteries-simple problems
UNIT-II
Utilization of Electrical Energy
Electrical heating-advantages-resistance heating-design of heating element-simple
problems-Illumination-definitions-laws of illumination-working of Incandescent lamp
and Fluorescent lamps-Electric Welding-Electric Traction-Block diagram-Simplified
speed-time curve-Energy meter
Elements of Mechanical Engineering
UNIT-III
Power (Energy) Systems
Block diagram of a power system; sources of energy; conventional, non-conventional
and renewable energy, application, resource availability; power produced, torque,
35
speed, and efficiency; Materials used in turbine shafts, blades, nozzles; diagnostics
and condition monitoring, commercial feasibility of power systems.(Turbine)
UNIT-IV
Motor Transport Vehicles –I (Surface )
Road Vehicles – Power plant in vehicles, transmission, steering, chassis, body, wheels
and axles
Rail vehicles - Distinction of rail vehicles from road vehicles
UNIT-V
Motor Transport Vehicles –II (Air)
Air vehicles - Aeroplane and its parts
Space vehicles - Rockets, 2 stage, 3 stage and 4 stage rockets, solid and liquid fuels
Sea Vehicles – Power plant, transmission, steering, hull
TEXT BOOKS
1. Principles of Power Systems by V.K.Mehta & Rohit Mehta S.Chand &
Company Ltd
2. Art & Science of Utilization of Electrical Energy by H.Partap Dhanpat Rai &
Co
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Utilization of Electrical Energy by E.openshaw Tayler Orient Longman
2. Electrical Power System – Soni, Guptha, Batnagar
3. Gneration and Utilization of Electrical Energy by C.L Wadhwa
36
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE-I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13CED001) ENGINEERING MECHANICS - I
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Classify the various types of forces, computes the moment of a force
and draw FBD.
• Know various types of friction and the laws of friction
• Distinguish between centroid, centre of mass and centre of gravity.
• Understand the concept of area moment of inertia and mass moment of
inertia.
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be
able to
• Find the resultant of coplanar concurrent and non-concurrent forces.
• Analyze the bodies on rough horizontal and inclined planes.
• Determine the centroid of composite areas, centre of gravity of
composite bodies.
• Determine the moment of inertia of simple areas and mass MI of simple
bodies.
UNIT-I
Forces
Introduction to Engineering Mechanics – Basic Concepts, Classification of a force
system, Parallelogram law of forces, Triangle law of forces, Polygon law of forces,
Principles of configuration. Lami’s theorem, Free Body Diagram, Resultant,
Equilibriant, Resultant of coplanar concurrent forces, Equilibrium of coplanar
concurrent forces.
UNIT-II
Moments
Moment of a force, Varignon’s principle, Parallel forces, Resultant of parallel forces,
Couple, Moment of a couple about any point lying in the plane, Resolution of a force
into a force-couple and viceversa, Resultant of coplanar non-concurrent forces,
Equilibrium of coplanar non-concurrent forces.
UNIT - III
Friction
Types of Friction, Limiting Friction, Laws of Friction, Equilibrium of bodies on rough
horizontal and inclined planes, Ladder friction.
37
UNIT – IV
Centroid, Centre of Mass, Centre of Gravity
Centroids of simple figures (from basic principles) – Centroids of composite figures
and built-up sections, Centre of mass of simple bodies, Centre of gravity of simple
bodies, Centre of gravity of composite bodies, Pappu’s theorems.
UNIT – V
Area moment of Inertia
Introduction, Inertia, Inertia of areas, Rotation of areas, Radius of gyration, Polar
moment of inertia, Parallel axis theorem, Perpendicular axis theorem, Moments of
inertia of simple figures and composite figures.
Mass Moment of Inertia
Moment of inertia of Masses, Significance, Rotation of mass, Mass moment of inertia
of simple bodies.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering Mechanics by Timoshenko & Young
2. Singer’s Engineering Mechanics by K. Vijaya Kumar Reddy
3. Engineering Mechanics by S.S. Bhavikatti
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Engineering Mechanics (Statics) by Meriam & Kraige
2. Engineering Mechanics by Tayal
3. Engineering Mechanics by R.K. Bansal
38
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 6 3
(13CED113) ENGINEERING GRAPHICS – I
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Learn basic Auto Cad skills.
• Learn basic engineering drawing formats.
• Learn various curves used in engineering practice & types of scales.
• Learn orthographic projections and projection of planes & solids.
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be
able to
• Draw two dimensional drawings using Auto Cad.
• Draw various types of scales.
• Draw various curves used in engineering practice
• Draw orthographic projections and projection of planes and solids.
UNIT- I
Introduction to Auto CAD
Introduction to Engineering Drawing
Principles of engineering graphics and their significance - Drawing instruments and
their uses - Different types of scales, scale of chords.
UNIT – II
Curves Used In Engineering Practice & Their Construction
Ellipse, parabola, hyperbola & rectangular hyperbola-general method-cycloid,
epicycloids, hypocycloid – involutes.
UNIT- III
Orthographic Projection
Points& straight lines inclined to both planes, true lengths& traces.
UNIT- IV
Projection of Planes
Projection of regular planes inclined to both planes - auxiliary projections.
UNIT- V
Projection of Solids
Projection of regular solids-inclined to both planes - auxiliary projections.
39
TEXT BOOKS
1. Elementary engineering drawing by N.D.Bhat, Charotar Publishing House
Pvt.Limited
2. Engineering drawing and graphics by Narayana & Kannaiah, Scitech
publishers
3. Engineering Drawing with Auto CAD by K.Venkata Reddy, B.S Publications
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Engineering Drawing by M. B. Shah, Pearson Education India
2. Engineering Drawing and Graphics by K Venugopal, New Age International
3. Engineering Drawing by Guptha,IK International Pvt.Limited
40
VNR VignanaJyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech CE, ME & AME L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13ITD176) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING & DATA
STRUCTURES LABORATORY
Course Objectives
• Gain a working knowledge of C and data structure programming
• Learn how to write modular, efficient and readable C and data structure
programs
• Utilize searching and sorting concepts to solve problem
• Use functions from the portable C library
Course Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
• Understand the basic terminology used in computer programming.
• Explain the difference between call by value and call by reference
• Design programs using searching and sorting techniques.
• Understand the dynamics of memory by the use of pointers
Week 1
1. Write a program that reads three different integers from the keyboard and
prints – sum, average, product, smallest, largest of the numbers.
2. Write a program that reads two integers and prints – difference, quotient and
remainder
3. WAP that reads two integers and determines whether the first is a multiple of
the other
Week 2
1. Write a C program to find the sum of individual digits of a positive integer.
2. Write a C program for Fibonacci sequence.
3. Write a C program to generate the first n terms of the sequence.
4. Write a C program to generate all the prime numbers between 1 and n,
where n is a value supplied by the user.
Week 3
1. Write a C program to calculate the following Sum:
Sum=1-x2/2! +x4/4!-x6/6!+x8/8!-x10/10!
2. Write a C program toe find the roots of a quadratic equation.
41
Week 4
1. Write C programs that use both recursive and non-recursive functions
i) To find the factorial of a given integer.
ii) To find the GCD (greatest common divisor) of two given integers.
iii) To solve Towers of Hanoi problem.
Week 5
1. Write a C program, which takes two integer operands and one operator from
the user,
performs the operation and then prints the result. (Consider the operators +,-
,*, /, % and use Switch Statement)
2. Write a program to print a given number [0-1000] in words. For example, 123
as One Hundred and Twenty Three
Week 6
1. WAP to check whether a given number is an Armstrong, Palindrome,
Perfect, Prime, or a Fibonacci Number
2. Write a C program to find both the largest and smallest number in a list of
integers
Week 7
1. Write a C program to generate Pascal’s triangle.
2. Write a C program to construct a pyramid of numbers.
Week 8
1. Write a C program to calculate
i) Minimum and maximum of an 1-d array
ii) Sorting an array
iii) Searching an array
Week 9
1. Write a C program that uses functions to perform the following:
i) Addition of Two Matrices
ii) Multiplication of Two Matrices
iii) To find the determinant of a 3 by 3 matrix
Week 10
1. Write a C program that uses functions to perform the following operations
using Pointers:
a. To insert a sub-string in to a given main string from a given
position.
ii) To delete n Characters from a given position in a given string.
iii) To reverse a given string
42
Week 11
1. Write C Programs to implement Structures and Nested structures with
suitable Examples
(Students has to practice with relevant examples taught in the class room)
Week 12
1. Write C Programs using Pointers and Pointer Arithmetic operations
2. Write C Programs using Pointers to structures, Pointers to Arrays and
Pointers to strings
(Students has to practice with relevant examples taught in the class room)
Week 13
1. Write C Programs to implement the following sorting algorithms
a. Bubble Sort b. Selection sort c. Insertion Sort
Week 14
1. Write a C program to implement STACK and QUEUE operations using
Arrays
Week 15
1. Write a C programs to implement the following searching techniques.
a. Linear Search b. Binary Search
Week 16
Lab Internal Examination
43
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE-I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13EPC101) ENGINEERING PHYSICS/ ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LAB
ENGINEERING PHYSICS LAB
Course Objectives
• To practically learn interaction of light with matter through physical
phenomena like interference, diffraction and dispersion.
• To expose to the principle of superposition and resonance.
• To demonstrate the formation of standing waves and to understand the
mechanical wave behavior and to determine Rigidity Modulus of different
material s of wires .
• To demonstrate basic discharge phenomenon in capacitors and to know the
characteristics of the circuit elements, like resistors, capacitors and
inductors.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course, the students will be able to
• Understand clearly the interference principle in wave theory of light and able
to relate it to the formation of Newton Rings and Obtain a pure spectrum
when light passes through prism
• Understand the formation and propagation of mechanical waves
• Study simple oscillations of a load attached to a string and relate it to nature
of material of string
• Understand the physical significance of time constant and related uses
Any Eight Experiments from the following:
1. Dispersive Power of the material of a Prism using Spectrometer
2. Diffraction Grating (both with Laser and non-laser source)
3. Single Slit with laser light
4. Newton’s Rings
5. Finding thickness of a thin wire or sheet by forming a wedge shaped film
6. Energy gap of a semiconductor material
7. Torsional Pendulum Expt: To determine the rigidity modulus of material of a
wire
8. Melde’s experiment
9. Sonometer Experiment
10. AC frequency by sonometer method
11. Numerical Aperture and Acceptance angle of an optical fiber cable
12. Bending losses in optical fiber
13. Stewart Gee’s experiment
44
14. Characteristics of LED/Laser Diode.
15. Photo cell/ Solar Cell
16. RC circuit- Time Constant
Book: Essential Practical Lab Manual in Physics: by P.Raghavendra Rao
ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
Course Prerequisites: General Maths, General chemistry.
Course Objectives
• Handling the basic equipment in the lab and various safety rules to be
followed in the chemistry lab.
• Estimation of hardness of water is essential for drinking water and in
industries to avoid boiler troubles.
• Knowledge of instrumentation in Colorimeter, Redwood viscometer,
Conductivity meter and pH meter.
• Knowledge of preparation of soap.
Course Outcomes
• Understanding the importance of the laboratory apparatus and the safety
measures to be taken.
• Understand the extent of hardness range present in a water sample and its
consequences if used for various industrial operations.
• Determination of strength of solutions ,pH of various solutions, lubricants
usage in machinery to prevent wear and tear.
• Understanding the composition of soap used for washings.
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
1. Titrimetry
a) Estimation of hardness of water by EDTA method.
2. Instrumental methods
(i) Conductometry
a) Conductometric titration of strong acid vs strong base
(ii) Colorimetry
a) Estimation of copper by colorimetric method
(iii) pH metry
a)Titration of strong acid vs strong base by pH metry
3. Physical properties
a) Determination of viscosity of sample oil by Redwood viscometer.
4. Preparations:
a) Preparation of soap
b) Preparation of Nano particles.
45
TEXT BOOKS
1. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by S.K.Bhasin and Sudha
Rani; Publisher: Dhanpat Rai.
2. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari and
Jyotsna Cherukuri; Publisher: VGS Book Links.
3. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna
Cherukuri, VGS Book Links, Vijayawada.
46
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CE – II sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13MTH002) Linear Algebra & Ordinary Differential Equations
Course prerequisites: Matrices, Differentiation and Integration
Course Objectives
• Understand the Echolen form and Normal form of a matrix and its
applications in solving linear system of equations.
• Understand the methods of solving first order differential equations and
learn about its applications to L-R and R-C circuits.
• Apply the convolution theorem to evaluate Laplace Transform of the
functions.
• Apply Z-Transforms in solving the difference equations.
Course Outcomes
Students will be able to
• Find the rank using Echolen form and Normal form.
• Solve the problems in first order and second order differential equations.
• learn Laplace Transform as a tool.
• Evaluate the Z-Transform of the given function.
UNIT-I :
Linear algebra – Matrices
Rank of matrix, Hermitian and skew – Hermitian matrices, Inverse of matrix by
elementary operations. Consistency of linear simultaneous equations, Eigen values
and eigen vectors , Diagonalisation of a matrix(including the case of repeated eigen
values). Caley – Hamilton theorem (without proof), Quadratic forms - reduction of
quadratic form to canonical form by linear transformation.
UNIT-II :
Ordinary Differential Equations and Their Applications
Differential equations of first order and first degree - Exact differential equation , Linear
and Bernoulli differential equation , Applications of differential equations of first order
and first degree - Newton’s law of cooling, Law of natural growth and decay,
Orthogonal trajectories, and basic circuits(L-R Circuits, R-C Circuits).
UNIT-III :
Differential Equations of Higher Order and Their Applications
Differential equations of higher order - homogeneous and non-homogenous type,
differential equations of second order and higher order with constant coefficients with
ax
ax
right hand side term of the type e sin (ax), cos (ax), polynomials in x, e ,
V(x), x V(x) and method of variation of parameters ; Euler-Cauchy’s 2nd order
47
differential equations, applications to spring mass system ,Simple harmonic motion
and L-C-R Circuits.
UNIT-IV:
Laplace Transforms
Existence condition, Laplace transform of standard functions, Properties, Inverse
Laplace transform of functions using partial fractions, Convolution theorem(statement
only). Solving linear differential equations using Laplace transform. Unit step function,
Impulse function and Periodic function and their transforms.
UNIT- V :
Z-Transforms
z-transform; Inverse z-transform; Properties, initial, and final value theorems;
Convolution theorem(theorems without proofs); Difference equations; Solutions of
difference equations using z-transform.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – B. S. Grewal,Khanna publishers.
2. A First Course in Differential Equations by Dennis G. Zill; Publisher: Brooks
Cole publiers.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa
Publications.
REFERENCES
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition;
Publisher: John Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition;
Publisher: Cengage Learning
48
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE - II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13PHY002) PHYSICS OF MATERIALS
Course Objectives
• To learn the structure of solids, crystal systems, packing and arrangement of
particles in crystals, simple planes and directions in solids, defects in crystals
• To learn the properties of magnetic materials and classification, Dielectric
materials
• To learn the concept and applications of superconductors
• To introduce new concepts like surface phenomena and nano science.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course, the students will be able to:
• Identify different crystal types, various planes and directions in crystals and
estimate one dimentional crystal defects
• Learn the magnetic properties of materials & classify the magnetic materials
into Dia, Para and ferro.
• Learn the characteristics, properties and applications of superconductors
and magnetic materials
• Realize surface phenomena are different from bulk; learn methods to
estimate work functions and Compare optical and electron microscopes and
learn principles of SEM&TEM
UNIT -1
Crystal Structures
Space lattice – Unit cell – Lattice parameters – Crystal systems – Bravais lattice-
Atomic radius – Co-ordination number - Structures and Packing fractions of Simple
Cubic – Body Centered Cubic – Face Centered Cubic – Hexagonally closed packed &
diamond Cubic Crystals.
Bonding In Solids
Force and energy between two approaching atoms, primary and secondary bonds,
binding energy and cohesive energy, Madelung constant, cohesive energy and
Madelung constant for NaCl crystal
UNIT -2
Directions, Planes And X-RD
Miller Indices for Crystal planes and directions – Inter planar spacing of orthogonal
crystal systems –Diffraction of X-rays by crystal planes and Bragg’s law– Laue method
– Powder method.
49
Defects in solids
Imperfections in crystals – Point defects (Vacancies, Interstitial and Impurities)
Schottky and Frenkel defects – (with mathematical treatment)- Line imperfections –
Edge and Screw dislocation – Burger vector – Surface defects and volume defects
(Qualitative Treatment).
UNIT -3
Magnetic Properties of Materials
Permeability, Field intensity, magnetic field induction, Magnetization and Magnetic
susceptibility – Origin of magnetic moment, Bohr magneton – Classification of
magnetic materials (Dia, Para and Ferro)- Domain theory of ferromagnetism,
Hysteresis curve – Soft and Hard magnetic materials – Ferrites and their applications.
UNIT -4
Dielectric Properties
Electric dipole, Dipole moment, Dielectric constant, Electronic, Ionic and Orientation
Polarization – Calculation of Polarizibilities – Internal fields – Claussius – Mossotti
equation –Piezo and Ferro electricity
Superconductors
Experimental survey and superconductivity phenomenon, – Meissner effect – Critical
fields and Persistent currents, Type I and Type II superconductors - London
equations- flux quantization, Applications of Superconductors.
UNIT -5
Science & Technology of Nanomaterials
Work function, Thermionic emission, Contact Potential, Electron Microscope, Scanning
Tunneling Microscope. Origin of nano science – (Basic principles of Nanoscience &
Technology) surface to volume ratio, quantum confinement – Fabrication of nano
materials ,Bottom up fabrication: sol-gel & combustion methods – Top down
fabrication: CVD& PVD methods– Applications of nanotechnology.
Text Books
(1) Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel (Publishers: John Wiley
& Sons)
(2) Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd
References
1. Solid State Physics by A.J.Dekker; Macmillan Publishers India Lt.
2. Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
3. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
4. Engineering Physics by M.R.Srinivasan, New Age Publishers
5. Solid State Physics by M.A. Wahab.
50
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech (Common to all Branches)II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13ENG001) ENGLISH
Introduction
This is the age of information and communication technologies. Engineers and
technical professionals need to convey technical information in English for various
purposes.
Besides learning general English as an international language, engineering students
need to be equipped with adequate writing ability so that they can communicate
technical information clearly on at least a basic level. A good English writing
proficiency can be a contributing factor to professional recognition and career
prospects. This course teaches those writing strategies that scientists, engineers, and
others will need in order to write successfully on the job. It initiates the students into
Technical Writing. The purposes of technical writing are to inform and persuade. This
program aims to train students in writing clear, concise and effective English.
This Syllabus is therefore, a Pragmatic English Writing Program for engineering
students with intermediate proficiency. The program covers a syllabus outline and
instructional approaches on basic writing skills with particular reference to technical
writing.
Course Objectives
• To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for academic writing and
speaking.
• To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns and
grammatical constructions required in technical writing as well as oral
communication.
• To acquaint the students with the writing process in preparation for academic
and workplace writing.
• Equip the students with the concept of coherence and cohesion for
meaningful and coherent communication.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
• Comprehend technical writing produced in the engineering profession
• Understand the writing process and create logical paragraphs
• Use infrastructural patterns in writing and speaking
• Communicate coherently orally and in writing.
Methodology
A Task-based, process oriented methodology will be used by the teachers to give a
practical orientation to the teaching of language. An inductive approach will be used to
demonstrate the use of language in context. This should enable the students to
internalize the language structures and vocabulary used in context. Students will be
51
exposed to numerous examples and ample practice will be given in the contextual use
of language structures.
Syllabus Outline
UNIT-I : Review of Grammar
i) Common Errors v) Use of Articles and Prepositions
ii) Subject-Verb Agreement vi) Conjunctions
iii) Adverbs vii) pronoun reference
iv) Transitional elements
UNIT-II : Prose 1
1. Heaven’s Gate by Pico Iyer
2. The Connoisseur by Nergis Dalal
UNIT-III Reading and Writing Skills
i) Reading Comprehension -- Skimming & scanning
ii) Reading Comprehension -- Intensive reading
iii) Reading Comprehension -- Critical Analysis
iv) Paragraph Writing
v) Letter Writing
vi) Memo Writing
UNIT-IV : Prose 2
1. The Cuddalore Experience by Anu George
2. The Odds Against Us by Satyajit Ray
UNIT-V : Advanced Writing Skills
1. Comparison and Contrast Pattern
2. Cause and Effect Pattern
3. Classification
4. Analogy
5. Problem-Solution Pattern
Prescribed Text Books
1. Enjoying Everyday English by A. Ramakrishna Rao
2. Effective Technical Communication by Ashraf Rizvi
3. Technical Writing Process and Product by Gerson Sharon J. and Steven
Gerson. 3rd edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
References
1. M. Raman and S. Sharma, 2004; Technical Communication : Principles and
Practices, OUP, (Indian Edition)
2. Blanton, L.L. 1993; Composition Practice, Book 4 ,Second Edition, Heinle &
Heinle Publishers, pp. 54
3. Georges, T.M. 1996; A course in Analytical Writing for Science and
Technology,
http://www.mspiggy.etl.noaa.gov/write/
52
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE - II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13CHE001) ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
Course Prerequisites: General Chemistry
Course Objectives
• Understand electrochemistry which deals with the utilization of electrical
energy of an external source for bringing about a physical or chemical
change.
• Knowledge of “Corrosion engineering education” and Usage of polymers in
modern world as an integral part of every human’s life.
• Knowledge of purification techniques and various applications of soft water in
industries.
• Usage of nanomaterials as emerging scientific components with amazing
potential applications in various fields.
Course Outcomes
• Visualize the chemical applications of electricity.
• Prevention of corrosion of metals and applications of polymers from
domestic articles to sophisticated scientific and medical instruments.
• Benefits of treated water as source in steam generation and other fields like
production of steel, paper, textiles, atomic energy etc.
• The applicability and greater efficiency of using a material at nanoscale in
different engineering fields.
UNIT-I
Electrochemical cells and batteries
Conductance-factors effecting conductance, conductometric titrations; cells: types of
cells, cell representation, electrode potential; Standard electrode potential;
Electrochemical series; Nernst equation; Reference electrodes – hydrogen, calomel
electrode; Ion selective electrodes (glass electrode & flouride electrode); Numerical
problems.
Batteries
Primary and secondary cells (lead-acid cell; Ni-Cd cell; lithium cells); Applications of
batteries; Fuel cells – methanol – oxygen fuel cells, advantages of fuel cells; Solar
cells - principle, and applications.
53
UNIT-II
Corrosion and its control
Introduction; Causes and effects of corrosion; Different types of corrosion; Theories of
corrosion – chemical, electrochemical corrosion (reactions); Factors affecting
corrosion – nature of metal (galvanic series; over voltage; purity of metal; nature of
oxide film; nature of corrosion product), and nature of environment (effect of
temperature; effect of pH; humidity; effect of oxidant).Corrosion control methods –
cathodic protection, sacrificial anode, and impressed current cathode; Surface
coatings – methods of application on metals (hot dipping; galvanizing; tinning;
cladding; electroplating), and organic surface coatings (paints - constituents and
functions).
UNIT-III
III a) Polymers
Introduction; Types of polymerization; Plastics - thermoplastic resins, and thermoset
resins; Compounding & fabrication of plastics; Preparation, properties, and
engineering applications of polyethylene, PVC, PS, Teflon, bakelite, nylon.
III b) Rubber
Natural rubber- processing, vulcanization; Elastomers (Buna-s; Butyl rubber; Thiokol
rubbers); Fiber reinforced plastics (FRP) and their applications.
UNIT-IV
Water
Introduction; Hardness - causes, expression of hardness, units, types of hardness,
estimation of temporary & permanent hardness of water, and numerical problems;
Boiler troubles – scale & sludge formation, caustic embrittlement, corrosion, priming &
foaming; Softening of water (Internal & external treatment - lime soda, zeolite, ion
exchange process, and numerical problems); Reverse osmosis and Electro dialysis
(desalination processes).
UNIT-V
Nanomaterials
Introduction; Preparation and applications of nanomaterials with special reference to
carbon nanotubes.
Insulators
Classification of insulators; characteristics of thermal & electrical insulators and their
applications; Superconductors - YBa Cu O ; Applications of superconductors.
2 3 7-x
54
TEXT BOOKS
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna
Cherukuri; Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain & Monica Jain, Publisher: Dhanpatrai
Publishing Company.
REFERENCES
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara & Mukkanti; Publisher:
S.Chand & Co.
2. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna
3. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya,
Sulochana Nagarajan; Vikas Publishers.
4. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi ,Cengage
Learning Publications.
55
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE - II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13CED003) ENGINEERING MECHANICS - II
Course Objectives :
Student will be able to
• Know the various assumptions in the analysis of trusses and types of
trusses.
• Understand the principle of virtual work and its applications.
• Distinguish between statics and dynamics & kinematics and kinetics
• Understand the work-energy principle and impulse-momentum principle.
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be
able to
• Find the member forces in trusses using method of joints and method of
sections.
• Find the reactions in beams and frames using the virtual work principle.
• Solve the kinematics of particles and kinematics of rigid body problems.
• Solve the kinetics of particles and kinetics of rigid body problems
UNIT – I
Trusses
Types of frames –Analysis of pin jointed frames- assumptions. Method of Joints,
Method of Sections, Force table, Cantilever Trusses, Trusses with one end hinged and
the other freely supported on rollers carrying horizontal or inclined loads.
UNIT – II
Virtual work
Concept of virtual work, Principle of virtual work, Application of principle of virtual work
to beams, ladders and framed structures.
UNIT – III
Kinematics
Kinematics of particles - Rectilinear and Curvilinear motions, Projectiles.
Kinetics
Kinetics of particles – Newton’s Second Law, D’Alembert’s Principle.
56
UNIT – IV
Work–Energy, Impulse–Momentum
Work of a force, Principle of Work and Energy, Application of principle of Work-Energy,
Impulse-Momentum Principle, Application of Impulse-Momentum principle to
connected bodies, Kinematics of rigid bodies, Kinetics of rigid bodies.
UNIT – V
Mechanical Vibrations
Definitions, Concepts, Simple harmonic motion, Free vibrations without damping,
Simple pendulum, Free vibrations with damping.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering Mechanics by Timoshenko & Young
2. Singer’s Engineering Mechanics by K. Vijaya Kumar Reddy
3. Engineering Mechanics by S.S. Bhavikatti
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Engineering Mechanics (Dynamics) by Meriam & Kraige
2. Engineering Mechanics by Tayal
3. Engineering Mechanics by R.K. Bansal
57
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE - II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13CED004) ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Develop an understanding of the necessity of protection of environment
• Develop an understanding of Natural resources
• Develop an understanding of Biodiversity
• Develop an understanding of Global Environmental problems
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students
should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge on environment
• Acquire the knowledge of various Natural Resources
• Develop skills in understanding of various environmental problems
• Develop skills to protect the Environment
UNIT-I
Environmental Studies:
Introduction, Definition, scope and importance, Ecosystems: Introduction, types,
characteristic features, structure and functions of ecosystems. Bio geo chemical cycle,
Classification of Eco system.
UNIT-II
Natural Resources :classification of Resources, Land resources, Land as resource,
Common property resources, Land degradation, Soil erosion and desertification,
Effects of modern agriculture, fertilizer –pesticide problems, Forest resources, Use and
over-exploitation.
Mining and dams – their effects on forest and tribal people, Water resources, Use and
over- utilization of surface and groundwater, Floods, droughts, Water logging and
salinity, Dams –benefits and costs, Conflicts over Water, Energy resources.
UNIT-III
Bio-diversity and its conservation, Value of bio-diversity -consumptive and productive
use, social, ethical, aesthetic and option values, Bio-geographical classification of
India – India as a mega diversity habitat, Threats to bio-diversity –Hot-spots, habitat
loss, poaching of wild life, loss of species, seeds, etc. Conservation of bio-diversity –
Insitu and Ex-situ conservation.
58
UNIT-IV
Environmental Pollution –Local and Global Issues,Nature of thermal pollution and
nuclear hazards, Global warming, Acid rain,Ozone depletion., Environmental case
studies.
UNIT-V
Environmental Problems in India,Drinking water, sanitation and public health,Effects of
the activities on the quality of environment, Water scarcity and groundwater
depletion,Controversies on major dams – resettlement and rehabilitation of people:
problems and concerns,Rain water harvesting, cloud seeding and watershed
management. Economy and Environment,The economy and environment
interaction,Economics of development, preservation and conservation, Sustainability:
theory and practices,Limits to growth,Equitable use of resources for sustainable life
styles, Environmental Impact Assessment.
Text Books
1. Environmental Science - Y.Anjaneyulu, B S Publications.
2. Environmental studies-Deeksha dave, Cengage learning India Pvt. Ltd.,
3. Environmental Science and Technology by M. Anji Reddy, B S Publications.
Reference books
1. Clark, R.S., Marine Pollution, Clanderson Press, Oxford, 2002.
2. Cunningham, W.P., et al. Environmental Encyclopedia, Jaico Publishing House,
Mumbai, 2003.
3. Environmental sciences and Engineering - P. Venugopal Rao, PHI learning
Pvt. Ltd.,
59
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE - II Sem L T/P/D C
0 6 3
(13CED114) ENGINEERING GRAPHICS – II
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Learn Sections and Sectional views of prisms, pyramids, cylinders and
cones.
• Learn development of surfaces of regular solids prisms, pyramids,
cylinders and cones.
• Learn Isometric projections.
• Learn Transformation of Projections & Perspective Projections
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be
able to
• Draw Sections and Sectional views of prisms, pyramids, cylinders and
cones.
• Draw development of surfaces of solids prisms, pyramids, cylinders and
cones.
• Draw Isometric projections.
• Draw Transformation of Projections & Perspective Projections.
UNIT-I
Sections and Sectional Views:
Sections of right regular solids-prisms, pyramids, cylinders and cones – auxiliary views
UNIT-II
Development of Surfaces
Development of surfaces of right regular solids prisms, pyramids, cylinders and cones.
UNIT-III
Isometric Projections:
Principles of isometric projections, Isometric scale, isometric views, conventions,
isometric views of lines, planes, simple solids.
UNIT-IV
Tranformation Of Projections:
Conversion of isometric views to orthographic views-conventions and vice versa.
60
UNIT-V
Perspective Projections:
Perspective view of points, lines, plane figures and simple solids, vanishing point
method & visual ray method
TEXT BOOKS
1. Elementary engineering drawing by N.D.Bhat, Charotar Publishing House
Pvt.Limited
2. Engineering drawing and graphics by Narayana & Kannaiah, Scitech
publishers
3. Engineering Drawing with Auto CAD by K.Venkata Reddy, B.S Publications
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Engineering Drawing by M. B. Shah, Pearson Education India
2. Engineering Drawing and Graphics by K Venugopal, New Age International
3. Engineering Drawing by Guptha,IK International Pvt.Limited
61
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B. Tech CE - II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED103) IT & ENGINEERING WORK SHOP
Course Prerequisites:
Course Objectives
• To study/demonstrate the concepts of computer w.r.t. its hardware, operating
system, assembling and disassembling.
• To conduct the experiments related to Carpentry, Tin –Smithy, Welding,
Electrical Wiring, and Fitting.
• To conduct the experiments related to production engineering Technology
• To demonstrate the usage of power tools, CNC lathe and machine shop for
different exercises.
Course Outcomes
Students will be able :
• To Identify, assemble, dissemble, install and write commands for a given
configuration of a computer.
• To develop components using the techniques of Carpentry, Tin Smithy,
Welding and Fitting etc. listed in trades for exercises.
• To work out the given models in machine shop and CNC Lathe.
• To understand the applications of different Power Tools.
IT WORKSHOP
1. Computer Hardware: Identification of Peripherals
2. Assembling and disassembling of a PC
3. Simple diagnostic exercises – Related to hardware
4. Installation of Windows Operating System
5. Installation of Linux Operating System
6. Linux Basic Commands
7. Simple diagnostic exercises –Related to Operating System
TEXTBOOKS
1. IT Essentials PC Hardware and Software Companion Guide Third
Edition by Davis Anfinson and Ken Quamme – CISCO Press, Pearson
Education.
2. PC Hardware and A+ Handbook – Kate J. Chase PHI (Microsoft)
62
ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
TRADES FOR EXCERCISES
At least two exercises from each trade:
1. Carpentry 2. Tin-Smithy 3. Fitting
4. Welding 5. Electrical Wiring
TRADES FOR DEMONSTRATION and EXPOSURE:
1. Power tools in construction, wood working, electrical engineering and
mechanical engineering.
2. Machine shop.
3. CNC Lathe
TEXT BOOKS
1. Workshop Manual by P.Kannaiah and K.L.Narayana; Publisher: Scitech.
63
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13ENG101) ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
The English language Communication Skills Lab aims to provide practice in all the four
skills of LSRW, with a special emphasis on listening and speaking skills.
Course Objectives
• Provide ample practice in LSRW skills and train the students in oral
presentations, public speaking, role play and situational dialogue.
• Provide practice in vocabulary usage, grammatical construction, structural
patterns, and improve comprehension abilities in the students.
• Train students to use neutral pronunciation through phonetic sounds,
symbols, stress and intonation.
• Enable students to transfer information from verbal to graphic representation
and vice versa.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
• Comprehend spoken and written discourse.
• Speak fluently with neutral pronunciation and exhibit interpersonal skills.
• Write accurately, coherently and lucidly making appropriate use of words
depending on context and present data clearly.
• Introduce oneself to people and be able to speak extempore.
Syllabus for Lab Sessions
Unit 1
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar : Nouns and Pronouns; Articles; The Present Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 1
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: Introduction of Self and others
Unit 2
Multimedia Lab:
1. Grammar: Concord; Adjectives; The Past Tense
2. Vocabulary: Lesson 2
3. Listening Skills
64
Communication Skills Lab: Seeking and Giving Information, Giving and
Taking Instructions
Unit 3
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar --- Adverbs, Conjunctions, Prepositions; The Future Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 3
3. Telephoning Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Role Play/ Situational Dialogues
Unit 4
Multimedia Lab:
1. Grammar ---- Active and Passive Voice; Language Analysis
2. Vocabulary : Lesson 4
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: i) JAM/ Short Talk ii) Information
Transfer a) Interpretation of Graph
Unit 5
Multimedia Lab:
1. Introduction to Technical Writing
A. Definition of a Technical Term
B. Description of a Mechanism
C. Description of a Technical Process
2. Vocabulary : Lesson 5
Communication Skills Lab : Presentation Skills: Oral Presentation
Multimedia Lab Requirements
The English Language Lab shall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Lab for 60 students with 60 systems, one
master console, LAN facility and English language software for self- study by
learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Lab with movable chairs and audio-visual aids
with a P.A System, a T. V., a digital stereo –audio & video system and
camcorder etc.
1. System Requirement (Hardware component):
Computer network with Lan with minimum 60 multimedia systems with the
following specifications:
i) P – IV Processor
ii) Speed – 2.8 GHZ
iii) RAM – 512 MB Minimum
iv) Hard Disk – 80 GB
65
v) Headphones of High quality
iv) Suggested Software:
The software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above should be
procured and used.
List of Software:
(cid:1) Clarity Pronunciation Power – part II
(cid:1) Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
(cid:1) DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill
Practice.
(cid:1) Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
(cid:1) TOEFL & GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO & BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE by
CLIFFS)
66
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13MTH008) PROBABILITY & STATISTICS
Course prerequisites: Permutations and combinations, basic statistics.
Course Objectives
• Understand the elementary ideas in basic probability.
• Understand the different types of probability distribution functions
• Understand the basic concepts in estimation theory and test of hypothesis
• Understand the basic concepts of time series.
Course Outcomes
Students will be able to
• Solve problems involving basic probability.
• Apply the knowledge of different probability distribution to Test of
Hypothesis.
• Calculate correlation, regression coefficients.
• Use Least squares method to compute time series
UNIT-I
Probability and Distributions
Sample space and events, Probability- The axioms of probability, some elementary
theorems, conditional probability, Baye’s theorem. Random variables - discrete and
continuous. Distributions - Binomial, Poisson and Normal distributions–related
properties.
UNIT-I
Correlation and Regression
Coefficient of correlation, regression coefficient, the lines of regression, rank
correlation
UNIT-III
Sampling Distributions and Testing of Hypothesis
Sampling distributions, sampling distribution of means (σ known and unknown). Point
estimation, interval estimation.Tests of hypothesis - null hypothesis, alternate
hypothesis, type I, type II errors, critical region. Inferences concerning means and
proportions- Large samples- test of hypothesis for single mean and difference
between the means. Test of hypothesis for the proportions- single and difference
between the proportions, confidence interval for the mean and proportions.
67
UNIT-IV
Tests of significance- Small samples
Tests of significance-t distributions, confidence interval for the t- distribution, F-
distributions and Chi square distributions.
UNIT-V
Time Series analysis
Time series- utility of time series analysis, components of time series. Preliminary
adjustments before analyzing time series. Measurement of trend by the method of
least squares, method of moments.
Text Books
1. Probability and Statistics for Engineers – Richard . A.Johanson, 1995, 5th
Edition, Prentice-Hall.
2. Statistical Methods - S.P. Gupta, (2011), Sultan Chand and sons.
References
1. Applied Statistics for Engineers-Jay.L.Devore, Nicholas. R.Famum,
Jimmy.A.Doi, 3rd Edition, Cengage
2. The Analysis of Time Series -An Introduction:-Chris Chatfield, Sixth Edition,
CRC Press.
68
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13CMS001) BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Course objectives
• To explain different forms of organizing private and public sector
business enterprises and to analyze the significance of Business
Economics in solving the problems of business enterprise. Also to
define and analyze the concepts of Demand, Elasticity of Demand and
Demand Forecasting Methods.
• To analyze the various types of costs and to determine the level of
output at which there is neither profit nor loss. To estimate capital
requirements and to describe various sources of mobilizing funds. Also
to identify least cost combinations of inputs produce desired quantity of
output.
• To describe the features of different market structure and pricing
strategies.
• To explain the basic accounting concepts and conventions. To
elaborate the importance of finance function for evaluating the economic
status of a business unit.
Course Outcomes
• Select the suitable form of business organization which meets the
requirement of selected business also perform decision – making
function effectively in an uncertain frame work by applying concepts of
Managerial Economics. Meet and manipulate the demand efficiently and
plan the future course of action.
• Apply right kind cost to reduce cost by paying attention towards the
costs which can be reduced. Take decision whether to buy or produce?
Reduce the cost of capital by selecting best source of fund mobilization
and select best investment opportunity which yields higher rate of
return.
• Fix the right price which can best meets the predetermined objectives of
the business firm under different market conditions. Able to select best
combination of inputs to produce required quantity of output.
• Prepare books of accounts and know over all financial position of the
business enterprise which enables the concerned to take appropriate
measures to improve the situation. Also interpret the financial position
from difference angles and initiates the measures/ efforts in that
direction.
69
UNIT - I
BUSINESS AND NEW ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
Characteristic features of business; Features and evaluation of sole proprietorship;
Partnership; Joint stock company; Public enterprises and their types; Changing
business environment in post- liberalization scenario.
UNIT - II
INTRODUCTION TO BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND DEMAND ANALYSIS
Definition; Nature and scope of managerial economics - demand analysis
determinants; Law of demand and its exceptions.
ELASTICITY OF DEMAND AND DEMAND FORECASTING
Definition; Types; Measurement and significance of elasticity of demand; Demand
forecasting; Factors governing demand forecasting; Methods of demand forecasting -
Survey methods, statistical methods, Expert opinion method, Test marketing,
Controlled experiments, and Judgmental approach to demand forecasting.
UNIT - III
COST ANALYSIS
Cost concepts - Opportunity cost, Fixed vs. Variable costs, Explicit costs vs. Implicit
costs, and Out of pocket costs vs. Imputed costs; Break-even analysis (BEA) -
determination of break-even point (simple problems), managerial significance, and
limitations of BEA.
CAPITAL AND CAPITAL BUDGETING
Capital and its significance; Types of capital; Estimation of fixed and working capital
requirements; Methods and sources of raising finance.
Nature and scope of capital budgeting; Features of capital budgeting proposals;
Methods of capital budgeting - payback method, Accounting Rate of Return (ARR),
and Net Present Value method (simple problems)
UNIT - IV
THEORY OF PRODUCTION
Production function - isoquants and isocosts, least cost combination of inputs, and
laws of returns; Internal and external economies of scale.
MARKET STRUCTURES
Types of competition; Features of perfect competition, Monopoly, and Monopolistic
competition; Price-output determination in case of perfect competition and Monopoly.
PRICING POLICIES AND METHODS
Cost plus pricing; Marginal cost pricing; Sealed bid pricing; Going rate pricing, Limit
pricing, Market skimming pricing, Penetration pricing, Two-part pricing, Block pricing,
Bundling pricing, Peak load pricing, Cross subsidization.
70
UNIT V
INTRODUCTION TO FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING
Double-entry book keeping; Journal; Ledger; Trial balance; Final accounts - trading
account, profit and loss account, and balance sheet with simple adjustments.
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS THROUGH RATIOS
Computation; Analysis and interpretation of liquidity ratios - current ratios, and quick
ratio; Activity ratios - Inventory Turnover ratio, and Debtor Turnover ratio; Capital
structure ratios – Debt-Equity ratio, and Interest Coverage Ratio; Profitability ratios -
Gross profit Ratio, Net Profit Ratio, Operating Ratio, P/E ratio, and EPs.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Managerial Economics and Financial Analysis by Aryasri, Tata McGraw Hill,
2009.
2. Managerial Economics by Varshney & Maheswari, Sultan Chand, 2009
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Financial Accounting for Management: An analytical perspective by Ambrish
Gupta, Pearson Education, 2010.
2. Managerial Economics by H. Craig Peterson & W. Cris Lewis, Prentice Hall
of India.
71
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13CED006) BUILDING MATERIALS, CONSTRUCTION & PLANNING
Course Objectives
Student
• Will list the construction material.
• know about the construction techniques
• understands the building bye-laws
• Know insights in to smart building materials
Course Outcomes
At the end of the course student will be able to
• Understand the Basic terminology that is used in the industry
• Understand different building materials ,properties and their uses
• Understands the Prevention of damage measures and good workmanship
• Understands the properties of building materials and services
UNIT – I
Stones and bricks, tiles
Building stones – classification and quarrying – properties – structural requirements –
dressing. Bricks – composition of Brick earth – manufacture and structural
requirements.
UNIT – II
Cement & admixtures, wood, aluminium, steel, building components
Ingredients of cement – manufacture – field & lab tests ;Admixtures – mineral &
chemical admixtures – uses, Wood – structure – types and properties –
seasoning – defects; steel & aluminum, Lintels, Arches, walls, stair cases – types
of floors, types of roofs – flat, curved, trussed; foundations – types; Damp Proof
Course; Joinery – doors – windows
UNIT – III
Masonry and finishings, formwork
Brick masonry – types – bonds; Stone masonry – types; Composite masonry – brick –
stone masonry; concrete, reinforced brick.;Finishes – Plastering, pointing, painting,
claddings – types – tiles- ACP, Requirements – Standards – Scaffolding – Design;
Shoring, Underpinning.
72
UNIT – IV
Building services
Plumbing Services, Water Distribution, Sanitary – Lines & Fittings; Ventilators:
Functional requirements systems of ventilators. Air conditioning – Essentials and
Types; Acoustics – characteristic – absorption – Acoustic design; Fire protection – Fire
hazards
UNIT – V
Building planning
Principles of Building Planning, classification of buildings and Building by laws.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Building Materials and Construction-Arora & Bindra, Dhanpat Roy
Publications
2. Building Construction by B.C.Punmia, Ashok Kumar Jain and Arun Kuma
Jain- Laxmi Publications (P) ltd, New Delhi.
3. Elements of Civil Engineering Anurag Kandya Charotar publishing house
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Building Materials by Duggal , New Age International
2. Building Construction by PC Verghese PHI
3. Construction Technology – Vol- I & II by R.Chuddy, Longman UK
Codes:
1. National Building Code
2. Building by laws by State and Central governments and Municipal
corporations
73
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13CED007) FLUID MECHANICS
Course Objectives
• Identify and obtain values of fluid properties and relationship between
them.
• Understand the principles of continuity, momentum, and energy as
applied to fluid motions.
• Recognize these principles written in form of mathematical equations.
• Apply these equations to analyze problems by making good
assumptions and learn systematic engineering method to solve
practical fluid mechanics problems.
Course Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
• apply fundamental knowledge of mathematics to modeling and analysis
of fluid flow problems in civil and environmental engineering.
• conduct experiments (in teams) in pipe flows and open-channel flows
and interpreting data from model studies to prototype cases, as well as
documenting them in engineering reports.
• understand or become aware of disasters caused by an incorrect
analysis in hydraulic engineering system.
• Apply fundamental principles of fluid mechanics for the solution of
practical civil engineering problems of water conveyance in pipes,
orifices, mouth pieces, notches and weirs.
UNIT – I
Properties of Fluid
Introduction; Properties of Fluid; Units of measurement; Fluid Continuum; Newtonian
and Non-Newtonian fluids; Vapour pressure.
Fluid Statics
Variation of static pressure; Absolute and gauge pressure; Pressure measurement by
mechanical gauges and manometers; Pressure on plane surfaces and curved
surfaces.
74
UNIT - II
Kinematics of Fluid Motion
Methods of describing fluid motion; Classification of flow; Steady, unsteady, uniform
and non-uniform flows; Laminar and turbulent flows; Three, two and one dimensional
flows; Irrotational and rotational flows; Streamline Pathline; Streakline; Equation for
acceleration; Convective acceleration; Continuity equation; Velocity potential and
stream function; Flownet; Vortex flow – free vortex and forced vertex flow;
Dynamics of Fluid Flow
Euler’s equation of motion; Bernoulli’s equation; Energy correction factor; Momentum
principle; Applications of momentum equation; Force exerted on a pipe bend.
UNIT - III
Flow Measurements in Pipes
Discharge through venture meter; Discharge through office meter; Discharge through
flow nozzle; Measurement of velocity by Pilot tube.
Flow Through Orifices and Mouthpieces
Flow through orifices; Determination of coefficients for an orifice; Flow through large
rectangular orifice; Flow through submerged orifice; Classification of mouthpieces;
Flow through external and internal cylindrical mouthpiece.
UNIT - IV
Flow Over Notches & Weirs
Flow through rectangular; triangular and trapezoidal notches and weirs; End
contractions; Velocity of approach. Broad crested weir.
UNIT - V
Analysis of Pipe Flow
Energy losses in pipelines; Darcy – weisbach equation; Minor losses in pipelines;
Concept o equivalent length; Hydraulic power transmission through a pipe; Siphon’
Pipes in series, parallel & branched pipes; water hammer.
Laminar Flow
Reynold’s experiment; Critical velocity; steady laminar flow through a circular pipes.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Fluid Mechanics by Modi and Seth (Standard Book House).
2. Fluid Mechanics by A.K.Jain (Khanna Publishers).
3. Introduction to Fluid Mechanics by S.K. Som & G. Biswas (Tata Mc.Grawhill
Pvt. Ltd.)
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Fluid Mechanics by Douglas, J.M. Gaserek and J.A.Swaffirld (Longman
Publishers)
2. Fluid Mechanics by Frank.M.White (Tata Mc.Grawhill Pvt. Ltd.)
3. Fluid Mechanics by A.K.Mohanty, (Prentice Hall of India Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi)
75
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13CED008) STRENGTH OF MATERIALS-I
Course Objectives
• The student will understand various forces, various supports, deformation of the
structures or member, combination of various loads.
• The Student will be able to visualize the difference in strengthening a member by
increasing the cross sectional dimensions or making it unnecessarily large and
uneconomical. He will be able to realize that providing larger dimensions than
optimum will make the members costly and inefficient too.
• The student will be able to predict the displacements or deformations due to various
Loads and Load combinations.
• The student will be able to realize and appreciate that an available section can be
strengthened by pruning (cutting) it in an appropriate manner modifying certain
characteristics of the cross section.
Course Outcomes
• The student will be able to know the important characteristic strengths of various
materials used in construction and fabrication of various members to check the
adoptability for use in a particular situation.
• To understand what type of straining actions will be generated under the action of
various forces and how to articulate the geometry of the structure to avoid
development of undesirable straining actions against which the material is weak,
leading to failure of the member or the whole structure itself.
• For given shape and given loads, how to economize the structure by proper
modification like making it composite member or pre-stressing it to introduce stresses
of opposite nature.
• Predicting the displacements of a given member under given conditions and to
strengthen the member suitably to contain the undesirable displacements thus
avoiding catastrophy.
UNIT – I
Simple Stresses and Strains
Elasticity and Plasticity, Types of Stresses and Strains – Hooke’s law - Stress-Strain
diagram for mild steel – Comparison of stress-strain curves for ductile and brittle
materials-various types of steels-Working stress- Factor of safety - Lateral strain ,
Poisson’s Ratio and volumetric strain - Elastic moduli and the relationship between
them - Bars of varying section - Composite bars - Temperature Stresses.
76
UNIT – II
Shear Force and Bending Moment :
Types of supports, loads, beams – Concept of shear force and bending moment –
Relation between SF,BM and Rate of loading-SF and BM diagrams for Cantilever,
Simply supported and Over hanging beams subjected to point loads, udl, uniformly
varying loads and combination of loads.Point of Contraflexure.
UNIT – III
Flexural & Shear Stresses
Theory of Simple bending –Assumptions - Derivation of flexure formula, Neutral axis –
Bending stresses - Section modulus for various sections, Design of simple beam
sections.
Derivation of Shear stress formula - Shear stress distribution across depth of various
beam sections like rectangular, circular, triangular, I, T, and angle sections.
UNIT - IV
Deflection of beams:
Slope, Deflection and Radius of curvature - Differential equation for the elastic line of
a beam –Double Integration and Macaulay’s method – Determination of slope and
defection for Cantilever,Simply supported and overhanging beams subjected to point
loads, udl, uniformly varying loads.
UINT – V
Thin & Thick Cylinders
Thin seamless cylindrical shells - Derivation of formula for longitudinal and
circumferential stresses - hoop, longitudinal and volumetric strains – changes in
diameter, length and volume of thin cylinders – wire wound thin cylinders-Thin
spherical shells.
Introduction to Thick Cylinders - Lame’s Theory for thick cylinders – Derivation of
Lame’s equations- Distribution of hoop and radial stresses across the thickness –
Radial deflection-Compound cylinders.
TEXT BOOKS
1. A Text book of Strength of materials by R.K. Bansal – Laxmi Punlications (P) ltd.
New Delhi.
2. Introduction to Strength of Materials by U.C. Jindal, Galgotia Publications
3. Strength of Materials by B.C.Punmia
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Mechanics of Solids by Ferdinand#PBeer and others – Tata Mc. Grawhill
Publications 2000
2. Strength of Materials by A.R.Basu, Dhanpat Rai & Co. Nai Sarak, New Delhi
3. Mechanics of Structures, by S.B.Junnarkar, Charotar Publishing House Anand,
Gujrat.
77
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13CED009) SURVEYING
Course Objective
• Student will be able to learn and understand the various basic concept and
principles used in surveying like Chain Surveying, Compass Surveying,
Plane Table Surveying, and Levelling Surveying.
• Student will be able to learn and understand various instrument used in
surveying.
• Student will learn and understand how to calculate Area of plot and Ground.
• Student will be learn and understand about Horizontal Angle, Vertical Angle,
Horizontal distance and Vertical distance to study the ground profile.
Course Outcome
• Student will be able to prepare Map and Plan for required site with suitable
scale.
• Student will be able to prepare contour Map and Estimate the Quantity of
earthwork required for formation level for Road and Railway Alignment.
• Student will be able to judge which type of instrument to be used for carrying
out survey for a Particular Area and estimate the area.
• Student will be able to judge the profile of ground by observing the available
existing contour map.
UNIT – 1
Surveying & measurements
Surveying – History; Definition; Classification; Principles of surveying; Plan and map;
Measurements – Basic Measurements and methods; Errors in surveying: Types of
errors
Linear measurements
Different methods; Ranging out; Chaining a line on a flat and on uneven ground;
Principles of chain surveying; Basic definitions; Equipment used for chain survey; Field
work; Offsets; Obstacles in chain survey; Chain & Tape corrections; Degree of
accuracy.
UNIT – II
Compass surveying
Prismatic compass; Local attraction; angular measurements Bearings: Azimuths;
deflection angles;
Plane table and its accessories; setting up; Plane tabling methods, Resection by trial
and error method. Errors in plane tabling;
78
Areas & volumes
Introduction; Simpson’s rule; Boundaries with offsets at irregular intervals; Coordinate
method; Planimeter. Area of cross sections; two & multi level section; Trapezoidal rule;
Prismoidal formula; Volume from spot levels- volume from contour plan; Capacity of a
reservoir.
UNIT – III
Simple levelling
Basic definitions; Curvature and Refraction; classification of methods of leveling;
Sources of errors in leveling. Contour; contour interval; Characteristics of contours;
Methods of plotting of contours –Uses of contour maps.
Theodolite & theodolite traverse
Vernier thedolite – basic definitions, fundamental lines, Measurement of a horizontal
angle; repetition and reiteration methods of horizontal angle measurement. Measurement
of vertical angle
UNIT – IV
Tacheometric surveying
Basic systems of tacheometric measurements; Inclined sight with staff vertical;
inclined sight with staff normal to the line of sight. Trigonometric Levelling.
Circular curves
Basic definitions; Designation of a curve; Relationship between radius and degree of
curve; Elements of a simple circular curve; Methods of setting out.
UNIT – V
Electronic distance measurements
Basic concepts, principle of Electronic Distance Measurement
Modern surveying
Introduction to Geodetic surveying, Total station and Global positioning system,
Introduction to Geographic Information System(GIS).
TEXT BOOKS
1. Surveying Vol I & II by K R Arora, Standard Book house.
2. Fundamentals of Surveying by S K Roy, Prentice- Hall of India Private Ltd.
3. Plane Surveying by AM Chandra, New Age International (P) Ltd.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1, Elements of Plane Surveying by Arthur R Benton and Philip J Taety, Mc.
Graw Hill – 2000
2. Surveying & Levelling by R. Subramanian, Oxford University Press, New
Delhi
3. Surveying by McCormac, Jack C., John Wiley & Sons Inc
79
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13CED101) SURVERYING FIELD WORK -I
Course Objective
• Student will be able to learn and understand the variousbasic concept and
principles used in surveying like Chain Surveying, Compass Surveying,
Plane Table Surveying, and Levelling Surveying.
• Student will be able to learn and understand various instrument used in
surveying.
• Student will learn and understand how to calculate Area of plot and Ground.
• Student will be learn and understand about Horizontal Angle, Vertical Angle,
Horizontal distance and Vertical distance to study the ground profile.
Course Outcomes
At the end of the course student will be able to
• Student will be able to prepare Map and Plan for required site with suitable
scale.
• Student will be able to prepare contour Map and Estimate the Quantity of
earthwork required for formation level for Road and Railway Alignment.
• Student will be able to judge which type of instrument to be used for carrying
out survey for a Particular Area and estimate the area.
• Student will be able to judge the profile of ground by observing the available
existing contour map.
CYCLE - I
Chain surveying
1. Chaining of a line using chain, measurements of area by cross staff
survey.
2. Measurement of distance between two points when there is an obstacle for
both chaining and ranging.
Compass survey
3. Traversing by compass and adjustments in included angles and
measurement of area - graphical adjustments.
4. Distance between two inaccessible points by compass.
Plane Table Surveying
5. Measurement & Plotting of the area by Radiation method.
6. Determination of Positions objects by Intersection Method – Plane Table
Survey.
7. Traverse by Plane table Survey.
80
CYCLE - II
Leveling
8. Measurement of elevation of various given points.
9. Elevation difference between two given points by reciprocal leveling.
10. Longitudinal Leveling
11. Cross – section Leveling
12. Plotting of Contours by Indirect Methods
81
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13CED102) MATERIAL TESTING LAB
Course Objectives
• The student will be able to study the uses of various types of testing machines
and capacities.
• The student will be able to test the structural materials against various
straining actions which the member is intended to bear during its service. The
strength of materials against various straining actions can be determined by
conducting the appropriate tests.
• The student will be able to identify, understand or design various implements for
generating required straining forces using the machine or to augment the utility of
the same machine.
• The student will be able to understand the principle of self- straining systems and
to analyze the various elements of the machine and appreciate the capacity of
the testing machine or the frame.
Course Outcomes
• The student clearly understands the concepts of deciding the shape or type of
specimen for assessing the respective strengths against various straining actions.
• The student can design the specimens for assessing a particular property of the
material with the available machines.
• The student can design the experiments making use of various techniques of load
measuring or deformation measuring instruments.
• The student will be confident to decide the range of the machine and set the
machine accordingly by suitable modifications ,for results with a finer degree of
accuracy.
1. Uni-axial Tension test on a specimen of Ductile Material.
2. Bending test on Cantilever beam of steel or timber.
3. Bending test on simply supported beam.
4. Torsion test on a specimen of ductile material.
5. Hardness test (Brinell and Rockwell)
6. Compression and tensile tests on close coiled helical spring.
7. Compression test on wood (Parallel & Perpendicular to grains) and/or concrete.
8. Impact test-Izod and Charpy Impact Tests.
9. Direct Shear test.
10. Verification of Maxwell’s Reciprocal theorem on beams.
82
11. Deflection test on continuous beam with point load on one span.
12. Deflection test on continuous beam with two point loads, one in each span.
Additional Experiments:
(cid:1) Use of electrical resistance strain gauges-Demonstration.
83
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B.Tech CE – II sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13MTH003) NUMERICAL ANALYSIS AND LINEAR PROGRAMMING
Course prerequisites : Elementary row transformations of matrices, differentiation
and integration.
Course Objectives
• Understand the numerical methods for non linear systems, evaluating
definite integrals and ordinary differential equations.
• Understand various methods of interpolation.
• Understand the simplex method and methods to solve the transportation
problem.
Course Outcomes
Student will be able to
• Apply the numerical methods to find a root of algebraic and transcendental
equations.
• Apply the numerical methods to find the solutions of ordinary differential
equations.
• Use simplex method procedure to optimize a linear function.
• Solve transportation problems
UNIT-I
Solutions of non-linear systems:
Introduction; Mathematical preliminaries; Solution of algebraic and transcendental
equations – the iteration method , the bisection method, the method of false position,
,Newton - Raphson method, and their order of convergence.
UNIT-II
Interpolation:
Introduction; Errors in polynomial interpolation; Finite differences; Forward differences;
Backward differences; Central differences; Symbolic relations and separation of
symbols; Differences of a polynomial; Newton’s formulae for interpolation; Central
difference interpolation formulae; Gauss’s central difference formulae; Lagrange and
Hermite interpolation formulae.
UNIT-III
Numerical differentiation and Integration:
Numerical differentiation based on interpolation ,Numerical integration: Trapezoidal
rule, Simpson’s 1/3 rule, and Simpson’s 3/8 rule.
84
Numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations:
Solution of initial value problems by Taylor’s series - Picard’s method of successive
approximations, Euler’s method, and Runge - Kutta methods; Predictor Corrector
methods - Adams Bashforth method- Adams Moulton method and Milne’s method
(without proofs).
UNIT-IV
Linear programming
Basic concepts; problem formulation, graphical method, canonical and standard forms
of LPP simplex method, Artificial variables technique- Big-M method,
UNIT-V
Transportation problems:
Balanced and Unbalanced transportation problems- North-West corner rule, Least
cost method, Vogel’s approximation method (VAM) and MODI method.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Elementary Numerical Analysis – B.S. Grewal, 3rd edition Publisher: Khanna
Publishers
2. Operations Research - Taha H.A, Publisher: Mcmillan Publishing:
REFERENCES
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition;
Publisher: John Wiley and Sons.
2. Elementary Numerical Analysis – an algorithmic approach -Samuel D. Conte
and Carl De Boor (2006);
3rd edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill 3. Operations Research – by S.D.
Gupta
3. Operations Research- Kantiswaroop , P.K Gupta and Manmohan, 4th
edition, Publisher: Sultan
Chand & Sons.
85
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13CED010) HYDRAULICS & HYDRAULIC MACHINES
Course Objectives
• Apply fundamental principles of fluid mechanics for the solution of practical
Civil Engineering problems of water conveyance in open channels.
• Study, Analyze and Design of channels in uniform and Non-uniform flow
conditions.
• Describe the operating characteristics of hydraulic machinery (pumps and
turbines) and the factors affecting their operation and specifications, as well
as their operation in a system.
• Study and Analyze different types of different types and elements of Hydro
Electric Power plants.
Course Outcomes
After completion of this course, student should be able to:
• Apply fundamental knowledge of fluid mechanics in solving problems and
making design of open-channel hydraulics in Civil and Environmental
Engineering.
• Describe and apply dimensional analysis and similarity to develop hydraulic
models and testing.
• Understand the basics of hydraulic machinery and their operation design in
water distribution systems.
• Select and design appropriate pumps, classification, identify and design of
hydraulic turbines and their and their application in Hydro Electric Power
plants.
UNIT-I
Open Channel Flow – I
Types of flows – Types of channels – Velocity distribution – Energy and momentum
correction factors - Chezy’s, Manning’s and Bazin formulae for uniform flow – Most
economical sections.
Critical Flow: Specific energy – critical depth - computation of critical depth – critical,
sub critical and super critical flows.
UNIT-II
Open Channel Flow – II
Non uniform flow – Dynamic equation for G.V.F; Mild, Critical, Steep, Horizontal and
Adverse slopes – Surface profiles – Direct step method.
Rapidly varied flow: Hydraulic jump – derivation - energy dissipation applications.
86
UNIT-III
Hydraulic Similitude
Dimensional analysis – Rayleigh’s method and Buckingham’s pi theorem – study of
Hydraulic models – Geometric, Kinematic and Dynamic similarities – Dimensionless
numbers – Model and Prototype relations.
Basics of Turbo Machinery
Hydrodynamic force of jets on stationary and moving flat, inclined and curved vanes,
Jet striking centrally and at tip, Velocity triangles at inlet and outlet, expressions for
work done and efficiency – Angular momentum principle, applications to radial flow
turbines.
UNIT-IV
Hydraulic Turbines – I
Elements of a typical Hydropower installation – Heads and efficiencies – Classification
of turbines – Pelton wheel – Francis turbine – Kaplan turbine – working, working
proportions, velocity diagram, work done and efficiency, hydraulic design, draft tube –
theory and function efficiency.
Hydraulic Turbines –II
Governing of turbines – Surge tanks – Unit and specific turbines – Unit speed – Unit
quantity – Unit power – Specific speed – Performance characteristics – Geometric
similarity – Cavitation.
UNIT-V
Centrifugal Pumps
Pump installation details – classification – work done – Manometric head – minimum
starting speed – losses and efficiencies – specific speed. Multistage pumps – pumps
in parallel – performance of pumps – characteristic curves – NPSH – Cavitation.
Hydropower Engineering
Classification of Hydropower plants – Definition of terms – load factor, utilization factor,
capacity factor, estimation of hydropower potential.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Open Channel Flow by K.Subramanya (Tata Mc.Graqwhill Pvt. Ltd.).
2. Fluid Mechanic and Fluid Machines by Rajput (S.Chand & co).
3. Fluid Mechanic & Fluid Power Engineering by D.S.Kumar (Kataria & Sons
Publications Pvt. Ltd.).
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Fluid Mechanics, Hydraulic and Hydraulic Machines by Modi & Seth
(Standard Book House).
2. Open channel flow by V.T.Chow (Mc.Graw Hill Book Company).
3. Hydraulic Machines by Banga & Sharma (Khanna Publishers).
87
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13CED011) STRENGTH OF MATERIALS-II
Course Objective
• Students will be able to understand Principal Stresses and strains and
different theories of failure, the concept of Pure torsion and different types of
springs.
• Students will be able to understand Euler’s formula, secant and straight line
formula and their application to long and short columns.
• Students will be able to analyze the stresses for the combined action of
direct load and Bending Moment, determination of stresses for masonry
structures.
• Students will be able to analyze the stresses in beams subjected to
unsymmetrical bending.
Course Outcome
• Student will be able to define Principal stresses and strains, Solve the
problems on an inclined section of a bar under axial load, determine the
Principal stresses by using the Mohr’s stress circle method
• Student will be able to define pure torsion, torsion equation & assumptions,
polar section modulus, and they will be able to derive the Torsional moment
of resistance for shafts and equations for open and close coiled helical
springs
• Student will be able to define Columns and struts , Analyze columns and
struts with different end conditions by using different theories.
• Student will be able to determine stresses for different masonry structures.
UNIT-I
Principal Stresses and Strains
Introduction - Stresses on an inclined section of a bar under axial loading – compound
stresses – Normal and tangential stresses on an inclined plane for biaxial stresses –
Two perpendicular stresses accompanied by a state of simple shear –Mohr’s Circle of
stresses –Principal stresses and strains –Analytical and graphical solutions.
Theories of Failures–Various Theories of failures like Maximum Principal stress theory
-Maximum Principal strain theory –Maximum shear stress theory –Maximum strain
energy theory –Maximum shear strain energy theory
UNIT-II
Torsion of Circular Shafts
Theory of pure torsion – Derivation of Torsion equation : T/J = τ/r= Cө / L –
Assumptions made in the theory of pure torsion –Torsional moment of resistance –
88
Polar moment of Inertia-Torsional section modulus –Power transmitted by shafts –
Combined bending and torsion and end thrust –Design of shafts according to theories
of failure
Springs-types of springs – Carriage or leaf springs-, helical springs-deflection of close
and open coiled springs under axial pull and axial couple –springs in series and
parallel
UNIT -III
Columns and Struts
Introduction –Types of columns – Short , medium and long columns –Axially loaded
compression members –Crushing load-points of Inflexion-Euler’s theorem for long
columns –assumptions –derivation of Euler’s critical load formulae for various end
conditions –Equivalent length of a column –slenderness ratio –Euler’s critical stress-
Limitations of Euler’s theory –Rankine formula –Empirical formula –Rnkine-Gordon
formula –Long columns subjected to eccentric loading –Secant–Straight line formula –
Prof Perry’s formula
UNIT -IV
Direct and Bending Stresses
Stresses under the combined action of direct axial loading and B.M ., core of a
section –determination of stresses in the case of chimneys ,retaining walls and dams –
conditions for stability –stresses due to direct loading and B.M about both axes
UNIT -V
Unsymmetrical Bending
Introduction –Centroidal axes of section –Graphical method for locating principal axes
–Moments of inertia referred to any set of rectangular axes –Stresses in beams
subjected to unsymmetrical bending –Principal axes –Resolution of bending moment
into two rectangular axes through the centroid –Location of neutral axis deflection of
beams under unsymmetrical bending, shear centre for simple section.
TEXT BOOKS
1. A Text book of Strength of materials by R.K. Bansal – Laxmi Punlications (P) ltd.
New Delhi.
2. Introduction to Strength of Materials by U.C. Jindal, Galgotia Publications
3. Strength of Materials by B.C.Punmia
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Mechanics of Solids, by Ferdinand PBeer and others – Tata Mc. Grawhill
Publications 2000
2. Strength of Materials by Schaum’s out line series – Mc. Graw Hill International
Editions
3. Strength of Materials by S.Rama Krishna and R.Narayan – Dhanpat Rai
Publications
89
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13CED012) CONCRETE TECHNOLOGY
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Use different types of cement as per their properties for different field
applications.
• Design economic concrete mix proportion for different exposure conditions
and intended purposes.
• Supervise various concreting operations.
• Carry out field and laboratory tests on concrete in plastic and hardened
stage.
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students
should be able to
• Determine the properties of concrete ingredients i.e. cement, sand, coarse
aggregate by conducting different tests.Recognize the effects of the rheology
and early age properties of concrete on its long-term behavior.
• Use various chemical admixtures and mineral additives to design cement
based materials with tailor-made properties
• Use advanced laboratory techniques to characterize cement-based
materials.
• Understand the mix design and engineering properties of special concretes
such as high-performance concrete, self-compacting concrete, fibre
reinforced concrete,
UNIT -I
Cements, aggregates & admixtures
Portland cement – chemical composition, hydration, setting of cement , structure of
hydrated cement –Tests on physical properties – Different grades of cement –
Classification of aggregates – Particle shape & texture – bond, strength & other
Mechanical properties of aggregates – specific gravity, bulk density, porosity,
adsorption & moisture content of aggregate– sieve analysis – fineness modulus -
Grading curves - Grading of fine & coarse aggregates – gap graded aggregate –
maximum aggregate size – alkali aggregate reaction – thermal properties - types of
Admixtures – Mineral and chemical admixtures – properties – dosages – effects -
usage.
90
UNIT –II
Fresh concrete
Workability – Factors affecting workability – Measurement of workability by different
tests - setting times of concrete - Effect of time and temperature on workability -
Segregation & Bleeding - Mixing and vibration of concrete - Steps in the manufacture
of concrete - Quality of mixing water.
UNIT –III
Hardened concrete
Water/cement ratio - Abram’s Law – Gel space ratio law- Maturity concept - strength in
tension & compression - Factors affecting strength -Relation between compression &
tensile strength
UNIT –IV
Testing of hardened Concrete
Compression test -Tension Test - Flexure Test - Splitting Test- Factors affecting
strength- Non-Destructing Testing methods – Codal provisions for NDT - Modulus of
Elasticity – Static and Dynamic modulus of elasticity- Poisson’s ratio - Creep of
concrete - Factors influencing creep – Relation between creep & time – Nature of
creep – effects of creep - Shrinkage- types of shrinkage.
UNIT-V
Mix design
Factors in the choice of mix proportions - Durability of concrete – quality control of
concrete - Statistical methods – Acceptance criteria –Proportioning of concrete mixes -
BIS method of mix design for ordinary and pumpable concrete
Special concretes
Introduction to Light weight concrete – light weight aggregates – cellular concrete –
No-fines concrete – fibre reinforced concrete – polymer concrete – High performance
concrete – Self compacting concrete – Ready Mix concrete.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Concrete Technology by M.S.Shetty – S.Chand & Co. ; 2004
2. Properties of concrete by A.M.Neville – Low priced edition – 4th edition
3. Concrete Technology by M.L.Gambhir – Tata Mc.Graw Hill press, New Delhi
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Concrete Technology by A.R.Santha Kumar, Oxford university press, New
Delhi
2. Concrete: Micro Structure, Properties and Materials – P.K.Mehta and
J.M.Monteiro, Mc-Graw Hill Publishers.
3. Special Structural concretes by Rajat Siddique, Galgotia Publications.
91
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13CED013) ENGINEERING HYDROLOGY
Course Objectives
• To impart to the students the fundamentals of hydrology.
• To enable the students to understand the various formula used in
Hydrology
• To enable the students to solve analytical problems
• To enable the students to apply the hydrology to real problems
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be
able to
• Compute the average precipitation using several methods
• Compute the evaporation, evapotranspiration and infiltration on a given
field
• Construct Unit Hydrographs and determine design discharges for
various structures.
• Understand the basics of Groundwater Hydrology and Well Hydraulics
UNIT-I
Introduction
Hydrology – Definition, surface water hydrology and groundwater hydrology,
Hydrology cycle – Different forms, Global Water Budget.
Precipitation
Rain-gauge – Recording and non recording types, Mass rainfall curves –
Characteristics mean rainfall on a basin – Arithmetic, Theissen and Isohyetal methods,
Intensity – Duration Analysis, Intensity – Frequency – Duration analysis, Depth – Area
– Duration curves, PMP, Missing Rainfall Data – Estimation, Consistency of Rainfall
records, Double mass curve, Rain gauge network analysis.
UNIT-II
Evaporation
Evaporation process, Factors affecting evaporation,Estimation of evaporation,
Measurement of evaporation – Evaporation pans, Control of evaporation;
Transpiration, Evapo-transpiration, PET, Consumptive use, Lysimeter, Formulae for
estimation of PET.
92
Infiltration
Infiltration process, Factors affecting, Measurement of infiltration, Infiltrometer,
Infiltration capacity curve, Horton’s relation, Infiltration Indices, Φ-Index, W-Index and
W Index.
min
UNIT-III
Runoff
Components of Runoff, Factors affecting runoff; Estimation of runoff; Basin yield; Flow
duration curves; Mass curve of runoff – Analysis; Estimation of safe yield from a
reservoir of given capacity.
Hydrographs
Hydrograph – components, separation of hydrograph into base flow and DRO –
Methods; Unit hydrograph – principles, derivation of UH of Isolated unit storms, UH for
various durations – S-curve techniques, Estimation of runoff from UH; Average UH;
limitations of UH theory; Synthetic UH; IUH.
UNIT-IV
Groundwater Hydrology
Occurrence, movement and distribution of groundwater, aquifers – types, specific
yield, permeability, storage coefficient, Transmissibility, Rock properties affecting
groundwater.
UNIT-V
Well Hydraulics
Steady radial flows into well confined and unconfined aquifers; Recuperation tests,
Well interference, Well characteristics.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Hydrology by Warren Viessman, Jr. and Gary L.Lewis (PHI
Publishers)
2. Engineering Hydrology by Jaya Rami Reddy (Laxmi Publications)
3. Hydrology by K. Subramanya (Tata McGraw-Hill)
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Elements of Engineering Hydrology by V.P. Singh (Tata McGraw-Hill)
2. Ground water Hydrology by David Keith Todd, John Wiley & Son, New York.
3. Elements of water Resources Engineering by K.N.Duggal and J.P.Soni (New
Age International)
93
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13CED014) STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS-I
Course Objectives
• The student will learn how to analyze the statically indeterminate structures by
applying the principles of equilibrium and compatibility in deformation pertaining
to the structure.
• The student understands the difference between the flexibility and stiffness
methods.
• The student will realize the necessity of help from the computer in analysis of
structures of higher degree of indeterminacy.
• The student will learn to predict the elastic curve for better understanding of the
behavior of the indeterminate structure.
Course Outcomes
At the end of the course
• The student will be able to judge the number and type of supports appropriate
for given conditions of loading and of topography with confidence.
• The student can understand the advantage of statically indeterminate structure
over the statically determinate structure .
• The student can confidently analyze the indeterminate structure of higher
degree of indeterminacy through computer oriented methods of analysis.
• The student can superimpose the effects of weakness of supports or
foundations such as allowing or imposing settlement or rotation of the ends
over the results of normal and simple analysis.
UNIT-I
Propped cantilevers
Analysis of propped cantilevers-shear force and bending moment diagrams-Deflection
of propped cantilevers.
Fixed beams
Introduction to statically indeterminate beams with u.d.l., point loads, uniformly varying
load, couple and combination of loads, shear force and bending moment diagrams-
deflection of fixed beams, effect of sinking of support, effect of rotation of a support.
UNIT-II
Continuous beams
Introduction- Clapeyron’s theorem of three moments-analysis of continuous beams of
constant moment of inertia with one or both ends fixed-continuous beams with
overhang, continuous beams with different moments of inertia for different spans-
94
effects of sinking of supports-shear force and bending moment diagrams. Analysis of
Fixed beams using Clapeyrons theorem.
UNIT-III
Slope-deflection method
Introduction, derivation of slope deflection equation, application to continuous beams
with and without settlement of supports.
UNIT-IV
Energy theorems
Introduction-strain energy in linear elastic system, expression of strain energy due to
axial load, bending moment and shear forces – Castigliano’s first theorem –
deflection of simple beam and pin jointed trusses.
Indeterminate Structural Analysis –– solution of trusses with one degrees of internal or
external indeterminacies – Castiglino’s theorem
UNIT-V
Influence lines
Definition of influence line for SF, influence line for BM- load position for maximum SF
at a section-load position for maximum BM at a section single point load, U.D load
longer than the span U.D load shorter than the span-influence lines for forces in
members of Pratt and Warren trusses.
Moving loads
Introduction, maximum SF and BM at a given section and absolute maximum S.F.
and B.M. due to single concentrated load, U.D. load longer than the span, U.D. load
shorter than the span, two points loads with fixed distance between them and several
point loads- Equivalent uniformly distributed load-focal length.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Analysis of Structures – Voll & Vol II by V.N.Vazirani & M.M. Ratwani,
Khanna Publications, New Delhi.
2. Structural Analysis – A unified approach by Dr. DSP. Rao
3. Basic Structural Analysis by K U Muthu, A. Ibrahim, M.Vijayanand and
M. Janardhana, I K Intl. Publishers.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Mechanics of Structures by S.B.Junnarkar,volume-II Charotar Publishing
House, Anand, Gujrat
2. Theory of Structures by Gupta, Pandit & Gupta; Tat Mc. Graw – Hill
Publishing Co. Ltd. New Delhi.
3. Basic Structural Analysis by C.S.Reddy, Tata McGraw-Hill, New Delhi.
95
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13CED103) FLUID MECHANICS & HYDRAULIC MACHINES LAB
Course Objectives
• To compare the results of analytical models introduced in lecture to the
actual behavior of real fluid flows.
• To discuss and practice standard measurement techniques of fluid
mechanics and their applications.
• To familiarize the students with the components and working principles of the
Hydraulic machines- different types of Turbines, Pumps, and other
miscellaneous hydraulics machines.
• To learn and practice writing technical reports and to work on small design
projects.
Course Outcomes
Students who successfully complete this course will have demonstrated an ability to:
• Utilize basic measurement techniques of fluid mechanics and able to
differentiate among measurement techniques their relevance and
applications.
• Demonstrate practical understanding of Minor and friction losses in pipe
flows.
• Demonstrate practical working of Hydraulic machines- different types of
Turbines, Pumps, and other miscellaneous hydraulics machines.
• Compare the results of analytical models introduced in lecture to the actual
behavior of real fluid flows and draw correct and sustainable conclusions.
1. Verification of Bernoulli’s equation
2. Determination of Coefficient of discharge for a small orifice by a constant
head method
3. Calibration of Venturimeter / Orifice Meter
4. Calibration of Triangular / Trapezoidal Notch
5. Study of Minor losses in pipe flow
6. Determination of Friction factor of a pipe line
7. Impact of jet on vanes
8. Study of Hydraulic jump
9. Main characteristics of Pelton wheel turbine
10. Performance test on Francis turbine
11. Main characteristics of a single stage / multi stage Centrifugal Pump
12. Operating characteristics of Reciprocating Pump
96
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13CED104) SURVERYING FIELD WORK – II
Course Objectives
• Student will be able to learn and understand the variousbasic concept and
principles used in surveying like Chain Surveying, Compass Surveying,
Plane Table Surveying, and Levelling Surveying.
• Student will be able to learn and understand about theodolite and total
station in surveying.
• Student will learn and understand how to calculate Area of plot and Ground.
• Student will be learn and understand about Horizontal Angle, Vertical Angle,
Horizontal distance and Vertical distance to study the ground profile using
total station.
Course Outcomes
At the end of the course student will be able to
• Prepare Map and Plan for required site with suitable scale.
• Prepare contour Map and Estimate the Quantity of earthwork required for
formation level for Road and Railway Alignment.
• Judge which type of instrument to be used for carrying out survey for a
Particular Area and estimate the area.
• Judge the profile of ground by observing the available existing contour map.
CYCLE - I
Theodolite surveying:
1. Measurement of horizontal angles and vertical angles.
2. Distance between two inaccessible points.
3. Measurement of area by theodolite traversing (Gales traverse table).
4. Determination of tachometer constants.
5. Distance between two inaccessible points using the principles of tachometer
surveying.
6. Distance between two inaccessible points using the principles of
trigonometric surveying
97
CYCLE - II
Total Station.
7. Area Measurement
8. Stake Out
9. Remote Elevation Measurement
10. Missing Line Measurement
11. Longitudinal & Cross Section Profile
12. Contouring
13. Providing a Simple Circular Curve
98
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13CED015) IRRIGATION ENGINEERING
Course Objectives
• To impart to the students the Irrigation Engineering.
• To enable the students to understand the details of water requirement of
crops
• To enable the students to solve analytical problems
• To enable the students to design different components of a Irrigation
System
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be
able to
• Compute the water requirement of various crops
• Calculate the reservoir capacity required for Irrigation
• Design various types of Diversion Head Works
• Design Irrigation Canals using different theories
UNIT – I
Introduction to Irrigation Engineering
Necessity and importance of irrigation, advantages and ill effects of irrigation, types of
irrigation, methods of application of irrigation water, Indian agricultural soils, methods
of improving soil fertility, preparation of land for irrigation, standards of quality for
irrigation water.
Water Requirements of Crops
Soil-water-plant relationship, vertical distribution of soil moisture, soil moisture
constants, soil moisture tension, consumptive use, estimation of consumptive use,
Duty and delta, factors affecting duty, depth and frequency of Irrigation, irrigation
efficiencies.
UNIT – II
Reservoir Planning
Factors governing selecting site for reservoirs, zones of storage of a reservoir,
reservoir yield, estimation of capacity of reservoir using mass curve. Reservoir
sedimentation-control.
Dams: Gravity Dams
Types of dams, factors affecting selection of type of dam, Forces acting on gravity
dam, causes of failure of a gravity dam, elementary profile and practical profile of a
gravity dam, limiting height of a low gravity dam, stability analysis, drainage galleries.
99
UNIT – III
Earthen Dams
Types of Earth dams, causes of failure of earth dam, criteria for safe design of earth
dam, seepage through earth dam-graphical method, measures for control of seepage.
Spillways
Types of spillways, design principles of Ogee spillways, types of spillway gates.
UNIT – IV
Diversion Head works
Types of Diversion head works-diversion and storage head works, weirs and barrages,
layout of diversion head works, components, Causes and failure of hydraulic
structures on permeable foundations, Bligh’s creep theory, Khosla’s theory,
determination of uplift pressure, impervious floors using Bligh’s and Khosla’s theory,
exit gradient, functions of U/s and d/s sheet piles.
Canal Falls
Types of falls and their location of Sarda type fall, trapezoidal notch fall and straight
glacis fall.
UNIT – V
Irrigation Canals
Classification of canals, Silt Theories –Kennedy’s Theory, design procedure of canals,
Silt supporting capacity, drawbacks, Lacey’s regime theory – design procedure of
canals, comparison of Kennedy’s and Lacey’s regime theory.
Design of Irrigation Canals
Balancing depth of cutting – use of Garret’s diagrams in canal design – use of Lacey’s
diagrams – canal design – water logging and canal lining, Cross drainage works –
Types, selection of suitable types of CD works.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Irrigation Engineering and Hydraulic Structures by S.K. Garg (Khanna
Publishers)
2. Irrigation Engineering by K.R. Arora (Standard Publishers)
3. Irrigation Engineering by R.K. Sharma and T.K. Sharma (S.Chand
Publishers)
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Irrigation and Water Resources Engineering by G.L.Asawa (New Age
Publishers)
2. Concrete Dams by Varshney
3. Theory and Design of Hydraulic Structures by Varshney (Gupta & Gupta)
100
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13CED016) DESIGN OF REINFORCED CONCRETE STRUCTURES
Course Objectives :
Student will be able to
• Know the salient features of Limit State Method of design of RC
structures.
• Understand the various codal provisions given in IS. 456.
• Know the behaviour of RC beams under flexure, shear and
compression.
• Understand the concepts of limit state of collapse and limit state of
serviceability.
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be
able to
• Design the singly reinforced, doubly reinforced and flanged sections.
• Design the axially loaded, uniaxial and biaxial bending columns.
• Design the isolated square, rectangular and circular footings
• Design the one-way and two-way slabs.
UNIT – I
Concepts of RC Design
Limit state design, Basic statistical principles, Characteristic loads, Characteristic
strength, Partial load & safety factors, Representative stress- strain curves for cold
worked deformed bars and mild steel bars, Assumptions in limit state design, Stress
block parameters, I.S. 456 Codal provisions
Beams
Limit state design of Singly reinforced, Doubly reinforced, T and L beam sections
UNIT – II
Shear, Torsion and Bond
Limit state design of beams for shear and torsion, Concept of bond, Anchorage &
Development length, Design examples in simply supported and continuous beams,
Detailing.
101
UNIT – III
Columns
Design of axially loaded columns of different cross sections, Design of columns under
uni-axial bending and bi-axial bending using SP-16 charts
UNIT – IV
Footings
Different types of footings, Design of flat type and sloped type isolated square,
rectangular and circular footings.
UNIT-V
Slabs
Design of one-way slabs, Design of continuous slabs using IS coefficients, Design of
two-way simply supported and restrained slabs.
Limit state of serviceability for deflection and cracking.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Limit state design of reinforced concrete by P.C. Varghese, PHI, New Delhi.
2. Fundamentals of Reinforced concrete design by M.L.Gambhir, PHI, New
Delhi.
3. Limit State Design by B.C.Punmia, Ashok Kumar Jain and Arun Kumar Jain,
Laxmi, Publications Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Reinforced Concrete Design by S.Unnikrishna Pillai & Devdas Menon, TMH,
New Delhi.
2. Reinforced Concrete Design by N.Krishna Raju and R.N.Pranesh, New age
International Publishers, New Delhi.
3. Design of concrete structures–Arthus H.Nilson, David Darwin.TMH, New
Delhi.
CODE BOOKS
1. IS 456 : 2000 Plain and Reinforced Concrete-Code of Practice
2. SP-16 Design Aids for Reinforced Concrete
Note:
Question paper pattern for Final Examination:
The end examination paper should consist of Part-A and Part-B. Part-A consists of two
questions in Design and Drawing out of which one question is to be answered for 25
marks. Part-B consists of Five questions on design out of which three are to be
answered for 45 marks (15 x 3).
102
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13CED017) ENGINEERING GEOLOGY
Course Objectives :
Student will be able to
• Know geology from Civil Engineering point of view
• Understand Mineral and rock properties
• Understands the significance of structural geology
• Understand the concepts of Geophysical methods
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be
able to
• Define geology and its importance in Civil Engineering
• List different properties of Minerals
• Classify the rocks
• Aquire the knowledge of structural geology.
UNIT-I
Introduction
Definition of Geology, Engineering Geology. Importance of geology from Civil
Engineering point of view. Importance of physical geology, petrology and structural
geology. Case studies of failures of few civil engineering constructions ,Weathering of
rocks and its effect on the properties of rocks, importance of weathering with reference
to dams, reservoirs and tunnels.
UNIT-II
Mineralogy
Definition of mineral, mineralogy, Importance of study of minerals: rock forming and
ore forming minerals. Differnt methods of study minerals .Advantages of study of
minerals by physical identification method. Physical Properties of minerals for
identification of minerals. Physical properties of following minerals: Feldspar, Quartz,
Flint, Jasper, Olivine, Augite, Hornblende, Muscovite, Biotite, Asbestos, Chlorite,
Kyanite, Garnet, Talc, Calcite. Study of ore forming minerals such as Pyrite, Hematite,
Magnetite, Amethyst, Galena, Pyrolusite, Graphite, Magnesite, and Bauxite, Coral
reefs.
UNIT-III
Petrology
Defintion of a rock, petrology.Classification of rocks-Geological classification of rocks.
Rock Cycle.Cassification of igneous Forms, structures and textures of igneous rocks.
103
Classification of sedimentary rocks, and its structures and textures. Classification
metamorphic rocks, its structures and textures.
Megascopic Study of Granite, Dolerite, Basalt, Pegmatite, Charnockite, Sandstone,
Shale, Limestone, Gneiss, Schist, Quartzite, Marble and Slate.
UNIT-IV
Structural Geology
Out Crop, Study of geological structures associate with rocks such as folds, faults,
joints, unconformities-their important types. Significance of Strike and dip in geological
structures.
Earthquakes, their causes and effects, shield areas and seismic belts, seismic waves
Richter scale, Precautions to be taken for building construction in seismic areas. Land
slides, their causes and effect, measure to be taken to prevent their occurrence.
Ground Water, water table, common types of ground water, springs, geological
controls of ground water movement, ground water exploration.
UNIT-V
Importance of Geophysical investigations, Principles of geophysical methods.
Importance of Electrical resistivity method and seismic refraction method from civil
engineering point of view.
Geology of Dams, Reservoirs, Tunnels
Types of Dams, importance of geology in their site selection and geological
considerations in the site selection of a dam, reservoir, tunnels. Histories of dams,
geological factors affecting the water tightness and life of a reservoir. Purpose of
tunneling, types of tunnels, out break, lining of tunnels.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering Geology by N.Chennakesavulu, Mc-Millan, India Ltd.
2. Principals of Engineering Geology by K.V.G.K. Gokhale, B.S publications
3. Fundamentals of Engineering Geology by F.G Bell, Butterworth’s
publications, New Delhi.
REFERENCES
1. Engineering Geology by Parbin Singh.
2. Engineering Geology by Venkat Reddy
3. Engineering Geology: Rock in Engineering Construction by Richard E.
Goodman
104
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13CED018) GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING - I
Course Objectives
• To create an ability to apply knowledge of geotechnical engineering.
• To accentuate the understanding of the basic principles of soil mechanics
and its application to solve problems related to geotechnical engineering.
• To improve the basic understanding of the index and engineering properties
of soils
• To improve the concepts to understand the hydraulic behavior of the soils
Course outcomes
• An ability to identify, formulate and solve geotechnical engineering problems.
• Improvising techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for
necessary understanding in geotechnical engineering practice.
• A complete awareness of the classical concept of soil mechanics and its
necessity
• An awareness of the selection of soil based on the applicability and
requirement conditions.
Unit - I
Properties of Soil
Historical development – Physical properties of Soil – Void ratio – Porosity, Degree of
Saturation, Water content, Unit Weights, Specific Gravity – their relationships, Relative
density. Consistency limits – determination and various indices – plasticity index
Liquidity index – Significance and Importance, Activity. Classifications : Mechanical
analysis – Sieve analysis, stoke’s law, hydrometer Analysis Textural Classification,
Structural Classification based on size – unified soil classification and modification by
Bureau of Indian Standard. Basics of Clay minerals mineralogy.
Unit - II
Permeability and Seepage
Soil water-types, Darcy’s law-Factors affecting permeability, Determination of
permeability by constant head and falling head method as per IS – 2720, field test as
per IS – 5529 (part I)- pumping in test and pumping out test. Permeability of layered
soils Seepage forces, General flow equation (Laplace equation). Flow net construction
and applications, Anisotropic soil conditions, quick sand condition. Uplift pressure, exit
gradient, failure due to piping, Criteria for design of filters.
Unit - III
Compaction:
Compaction-Factors affecting compaction. Dry density and moisture content
relationship. Zero air voids line. Engineering behavior of compacted soils. Standard
105
Proctor test and Modified Proctor test as per IS – 2720. Field compaction equipment,
Field control of compaction.
Consolidation: primary compression and secondary compression determination of
preconsolidation pressure. Normally consolidated, over consolidated and under
consolidated clays. Oedometer Test, e-p and e-log p curves – compression index,
coefficient of compressibility and coefficient of volume decrease. Terzaghi’s one
dimensional consolidation theory assumption, derivation and application, coefficient of
consolidation time curve fitting methods, initial compression,
Unit - IV
Stress Distribution in Soils
Effective stress concept, Nature of effective stresses, Effect of water table fluctuations
on effective stress, Effective stress in a soil mass under hydro static condition,
capillarity effect on effective stress. Effective stress under steady seepage condition,
failure of structures by piping. Boussinesq theory- point load, line load, strip load,
circular and rectangular loaded areas. pressure distribution diagram on a horizontal
and vertical plane, pressure bulb, Westergaard's theory, equivalent point load method,
Newmark chart, Fadum chart, contact pressure, approximate stress distribution
method.
Unit - V
Shear Strength of Soil
Stress strain curve, stress at a point-Mohr circle of stress, Mohr-coulomb failure
criteria, pore pressure, total and effective stress. Peak and residual shear
strength. Factors affecting shear strength. Laboratory measurement of shear
strength by direct, unconfined, Vane shear test and triaxial tests under different
drainage conditions. Shear strength characteristics of sands. Sensitivity and
thixotropy of cohesive soils. shear strength of sands, critical void ratio and
dilatancy, shear strength of clays, total stress analysis and effective stress
analysis,
TEXT BOOKS
1. Basic and Applied Soil Mechanics by Gopal Rajan and A.S.R. Rao.
2. Soil Mechanics, Foundation Engineering by V.N.S. Murthy.
3. Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering by K.R. Arora.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Soil Mechanics by Craig R.F., Chapman & Hall Edition, Laxmi Publications
2. Fundamentals of Soil Engineering by Taylor, John Wiley & Sons
3. An Introduction to Geotechnical Engineering, by Holtz R.D., Prentice Hall, NJ
106
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13CED019) STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS - II
Course Objectives
• Ability to idealize and analyze statically determinate and indeterminate
structures
• To introduce Displacement methods of analysis for statically indeterminate
structures.
• To Introduce the approximate methods of analysis for both gravity and
Lateral loads.
• Familiarity with professional and contemporary issues
Course Outcomes
At the end of the course student will be able to
• Ability to analyze Two hinged and three hinged arch structures
• Ability to determine deflections of beams using classical methods
• Ability to solve statically indeterminate structures using classical methods
• Ability to solve statically indeterminate structures using Approximate
methods
UNIT-I
ARCHES : Three hinged arches
Elastic theory of arches – Eddy’s theorem – Determination of horizontal thrust,
bending moment, normal thrust and radial shear – effect of temperature.
Two hinged arches: Determination of horizontal thrust bending moment, normal
thrust and radial shear – Rib shortening and temperature stresses, tied arches – fixed
arches – ( No analytical question).
UNIT – II
Moment Area method-beams subjected to point loads,udl and couples
Conjugate Beam Method: Derivation of Theorems-Application to Beam deflections and
slopes.
UNIT – III
Moment Distribution method – Stiffness and carry over factors – Distribution factors –
Analysis of continuous beams with and without sinking of supports
Kani’s Method : Analysis of continuous beams – including settlement of supports and
single bay single storey portal frames with side sway .
107
UNIT-IV
Approximate method of structural analysis, application to building frames. (i) Portal
method (ii) Cantilever method.(iii)Substitute frame analysis-two cycle.
UNIT – V
Determination of kinematic indeterminacy-Stiffness method: Introduction, application to
continuous beams including support settlements.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Analysis of Structures – Vol. I & 2 by Bhavikathi, Vikas publications
2. Analysis of structures by Vazrani & Ratwani – Khanna Publications.
3. Structural Analysis by Devdasmenon and Pillai, Narosa publishers
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Structural Analysis (Matrix Approach) by Pundit and Gupta – Tata
Mc.Graw Hill publishers.
2. Theory of structures by Ramamuratam
3. Structural Analysis by C.S. Reddy, Tata Macgrawhill, New Delhi
108
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13CED105) ENGINEERING GEOLOGY LAB
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Identify the mineral name by studying the properties
• Identify the rocks
• Interpretation of geological maps
• Identify the presence of folds, faults, dip and strike in rocks
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be
able to
• Identify various Minerals
• Identify the rocks
• Interpret and draw the sections for geological maps showing horizontal
beds, vertical beds, inclined beds, folds, faults, unconformities.
• Behaviour of the miernals and their engineering applications
List of Experiments
1. Study of physical properties and identification of minerals referred under theory.
Feldspar, Quartz, Flint, Jasper, Olivine, Augite, Hornblende, Muscovite, Biotite,
Asbestos, Chlorite, Kyanite, Garnet, Talc, Calcite. Study of ore forming minerals
such as Pyrite, Hematite, Magnetite, Amethyst, Galena, Pyrolusite, Graphite,
Magnesite, and Bauxite, Coral reefs.
2. Megascopic description and identification of rocks referred under theory. Granite,
Dolerite, Basalt, Pegmatite, Charnockite, Sandstone, Shale, Limestone, Gneiss,
Schist, Quartzite, Marble and Slate.
3. Interpretation and drawing of sections for geological maps showing horizontal
beds, vertical beds, inclined beds, folds, faults, unconformities.
109
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13CED106) COMPUTER AIDED DRAFTING OF BUILDINGS
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Use AutoCAD software.
• Use different commands to draw Building Drawings.
• Draw different components of Doors and Windows.
• Draw different types of Trusses.
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students
should be able to
• Use different Autocad Commands to develop Plan, Section and elevation of
single Storied and Multi Storied Buildings.
• Draw and detail different Components of different types of doors and
windows.
• Develop Working Drawings of Residential Buildings.
• Prepare drawing with details of roof trusses.
1. Introduction to Computer Aided Drafting.
2. Software for CAD- Introduction to different software’s.
3. Practice exercises on CAD software.
4. Drawing of plans of buildings using software a) single storied buildings b)
multi storied buildings.
5. Developing sections and elevations for a) single storied buildings b) multi
storied buildings.
6. Detailing of building components like Doors, Windows, Roof Trusses etc.
using CAD software.
7. Exercise on development of working drawings of buildings
TEXT BOOKS
1. Computer Aided Design Laboratory by M.N.Sesha Prakash & Dr.
G.S.Servesh – Laxmi Publications
2. Engineering Graphics by P.J.Sha-S.Chand & Co.
110
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13CED107) CONCRETE LAB
Course Objectives
• To Understand the test procedures to find Physical properties of Cement
• To understand the test procedures to find Specific Gravity, Bulking of
Aggregates.
• To Understand the test procedures to find properties of Fresh Concrete
• To Understand the test procedures to find properties of Hardened Concrete
Course Outcomes
At the end of the course student will be able to
• Test Fineness, Specific Gravity, Setting Time, Soundness and Compressive
Strength of Cement
• Test Specific Gravity of Coarse Aggregate and Fine Aggregate, Bulking of
Fine Aggregate.
• Design Concrete Mix Proportioning by Using Indian Standard Method.
• Test Workability of Fresh Concrete and Compressive strength, Split Tensile
Strength of Hardened Concrete.
LIST OF EXCERCISES
Cycle -I
I. Tests on Cement:
a) Standard Consistency
b) Initial & final Setting Time
c) Specific Gravity
d) Fineness
e) Soundness
f) Compressive Strength
II. Tests on Aggregates:
a) Specific Gravity of Fine Aggregate
b) Specific Gravity of Coarse Aggregate.
c) Bulking of Fine Aggregate.
111
Cycle –II
III. IS method of mix design of Normal Concrete.
IV. Tests on Fresh Concrete:
a) Slump cone Test
b) Compaction factor Test
c) Vee Bee Test
V. Tests on Hardened Concrete:
a) Compressive & Split Tensile strength Tests.
b) Modulus of Elasticity of Concrete.
c) Non Destructive Testing of concrete (for Demonstration)
112
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13CED020) DESIGN OF STEEL STRUCTURES
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Know about the manufacturing process of steel, types of steel and their
properties
• Understand the salient features of Limit State Method of design of Steel
structures.
• Understand the various codal provisions given in IS. 800.
• Know the behaviour of steel structures under tension, compression and
flexure.
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be
able to
• Design the tension members and compression members.
• Design the slab and gusset type column bases.
• Design the welded plate girder and various stiffeners.
• Design the various components of roof trusses.
UNIT-I
Materials-Manufacturing of iron and steel-types of structural steel-mechanical
properties of steel-concepts of plasticity-yield strength-loads and combinations-local
buckling behavior of steel-concept of limit state design-limit states-design strengths-
deflection limits-serviceability-stability check
Bolted connections-IS:800-2007 specifications-Design strength-efficiency of joint-
prying action-welded connections-Types of welded joints-specifications-design
requirements-Eccentric connections
UNIT-II
Design of tension members-Design strength-Design procedure- splice-lug angles
Design of compression members - buckling - slenderness ratio – Load carrying
capacity-laced columns-battened columns-splice-column base
Slab base-Gusseted base
UNIT-III
Design of beams-plastic moment-bending and shear strength/buckling- built up
sections-laterally supported beams
113
UNIT-IV
Design of welded plate girder-elements-economical depth-design of main section-
connections between web and flange-design of bearing stiffener-intermediate
stiffeners-design of web splice and flange splice
UNIT-V:
Design of Roof Trusses –Types of roof trusses - loads on roof trusses – purlin design -
Analysis and design Roof trusses – Design of connections
TEXT BOOKS
1. Limit state Design of Steel Structures by S K Duggal, TMH, and New Delhi.
2. Design of Steel Structures by N Subramanian, Oxford University Press
3.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Design of Steel Structures by S.S. Bhavikatti (By limit state method), IK
international Publishing House Pvt. Limited.
2. Limit state Design of steel structures by Dr.V L Shaw, Structures Publications,
Pune
CODE BOOKS
1. IS: 875 ( Part III)
2. IS 800: 2007 - Indian Code of Practice for Construction in Steel
3. Hand book of Steel Tables.
Note:
Question paper pattern for Final Examination :
The end examination paper should consist of Part-A and Part-B. Part-A consists of two
questions in Design and Drawing out of which one question is to be answered for 25
marks. Part-B consists of Five questions on design out of which three are to be
answered for 45 marks(15 x 3).
114
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13CED021) ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING - I
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Develop an understanding of sources of water and water supply
• Develop an understanding of water treatment process
• Develop an understanding of Distribution of water
• Develop an understanding of air pollution concepts
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students
should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge of the water borne diseases
• Acquire the knowledge of sources of water
• Develop skills in designing the water treatment plant.
• Develop skills in control of Air pollution
UNIT-I
Introduction: water borne diseases –protected water supply –Population forecasts,
design period –water demand –types of demand –factors affecting fluctuations –fire
demand-storage capacity-water quality and testing-drinking water standards.
UNIT-II
Sources of water, Layout and general outline of water treatment units-sedimentation,
uniform settling velocity- principles –design factors-surface loading –jar test –optimum
dosage of coagulant- coagulation –flocculation -clarifier design –coagulants-feeding
arrangements.
UNIT-III
Filtration-Theory –working of slow and rapid gravity filters –multimedia filters –design
of filters –troubles in operation comparison of filters – Disinfection- types of disinfection
–theory of chlorination-Chlorine Demand-other disinfection methods
UNIT-IV
Distribution systems-types of layouts of distribution systems-design of distribution
systems-Hardy cross and equivalent pipe methods, valves, joints, water meters, laying
and testing of pipe lines
115
UNIT-V
Air pollution -sources, effects, air pollution control-particulate control devices, gaseous
emission control devices
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Water supply and sanitary Engineering by G.S Birdi, Dhanpat Rai &Sons
Publishers.
2. Water supply Engineering Vol-I waste water engineering , B.C .Punmia,
Ashok Jain & Arun Jain, Laxmi Publication Pvt ltd ,New Delhi
3. Water supply Engineering Vol-I waste water engineering ,S.K.Garg,Khanna
publishers
REFERENCES:
1. Water and waste water Technology by mark J.Hammar and Mark J.Hammar
Jr
2. Water and waste water Technology by Steel
3. water and waste water Engineering by Fair Geyer and Okun
116
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE –II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13CED022)TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING
Course Objectives
• The objective of this course is to introduce students the principal of highway
design, road safety and highway construction materials.
• By the end of this course, students should be able to start applying these
skills to design roads and select material for road construction.
• The objective of this part of the course is to enable the students to formulate
the fundamental principles of traffic flow, traffic characteristic measurements
and their interpretation for infrastructure changes or development.
• To provide the students an awareness of issues and problems of current
interest to the railway & airport industry, the design, construction, and
maintenance of railway & airport physical facilities
Course Outcomes
At the completion of this module, students should be able to:
• Classify roads based on functional classification, describe design elements
as sight distance, horizontal curvature, super elevation, grades, visibility on
vertical curves, cross section elements
• Use fundamental physics and mathematical knowledge in deriving geometric
design equations; Plan surveys, preparation of survey forms and data
collection from field for highway design
• Railway track components, its design elements of track geometry and
concepts of railway signaling
• Air–craft characteristics, selection of airport site, Classification of
obstructions and runway design
UNIT – I
Highway development & planning
Brief Introduction; Jayakar Committee recommendations; Classification of roads;
Highway planning in India. Factors controlling alignment; Engineering surveys,
Drawing & report.
UNIT – II
Highway geometric design
Highway cross-section elements; Sight distance; Design of horizontal alignment;
Design of vertical alignment.
Pavement materials and characterisation
IS Soil Classification; CBR Tests; Plate bearing tests; Stone aggregates; Bitumen
materials; Paving mixes.
UNIT – III
Railway engineering
Role of railways in transportation; Comparison of railway and highway transportation;
117
railway track Alignment of railway track; Requirement of Good track, Alignment,
Gauges in Railway track, Railway track cross – sections; Coning of wheels Rails &
Rail Joints- Functions of rails; Requirements of rails; Types of rails sections; Standard
rail sections; Length of rails; Rail failures; Wear on rails, Creep of rails. Requirements
of an ideal joint; Types of rail joints; Welding of rails
Sleepers & ballast
Functions of sleepers; Requirements of sleepers; Classification of Sleepers – Timber
sleepers, Metal sleepers & Concrete sleepers; Comparison of different types of
sleepers. Ballast- Functions and requirements of ballast; Types of ballast; Renewal of
ballast.
UNIT - IV
Geometric design of track
Necessity; Gradients & Gradient Compensation; Elements of horizontal alignment;
Super elevation; Cant deficiency and cant excess; Negative Super elevation; Length of
Transition Curve, Length of vertical curve. Points and crossing- function – left and right
hand turn out
Signaling
Objects of signaling; Classification of signals; Essentials of inter – locking; Methods of
interlocking. Standards of inter locking
UNIT - V
Airport planning and design
Development of air transportation system with particular reference to India; Aero
plane components; Air–craft characteristics, Selection of site; Apron; Hanger; Typical
airport layouts; Airport marking; Airport lighting; Drainage systems. Airport obstruction
- Zoning laws; Classification of obstructions; Imaginary surfaces; Approach zone;
Turning zone.
Runway design
Runway orientation; Basic runway length; Corrections for elevation; Temperature and
gradient; Runway geometric design.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Highway Engineering by S. K. Khanna & C. E. G. Justo; Nemchand &
Brothers, Roorkee.
2. Railway engineering by S.C. Saxena and S. Arora; Dhanpat Rai & Sons;
Delhi.
3. Airport planning and Design by S.K. Khanna & M.G Arora; Nemchand &
Bros, Roorkee.
118
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Principles of Transportation Engineering by Partha Chakroborty & Aminesh
Das; Prentice Hall of India, New Delhi.
2. Transport planning and Traffic Engineering by Dr. L. R. Kadiyali; Khanna
Publishers
3. Highway Engineering by B.L.Gupta; Jain book, New Delhi
119
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13CED023) ESTIMATING AND COSTING
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Understands the terms of estimation.
• able to calculate detailed estimate of buildings
• able to do rate analysis of quantities
• able to understand the types of valuating the property
Course Outcomes
At the end of the course student will be able to
• Evaluate the detailed estimate of RC building
• Evaluate the detailed estimate of roads, doors, irrigation works
• Understands the importance of valuation
• Understands what type of contract is used for a specific Work
UNIT-I
Estimate - explanation of terms - contingencies - work charged establishments -
provisional sum - lumpsum item - centage charge - types of estimate - revised
estimate - supplementary estimate - maintenance estimate - approximate estimate -
plinth area method - cubic rate method - unit rate method - bay method - approximate
quantity from bill method - comparison method - cost from materials and labour. -
preparation of detailed estimate for R.C building - centre line method and long wall -
short wall method - methods of measurements of different items of work.
UNIT-II
Preparation of detailed estimate for sanitary and water supply works - roads - irrigation
works - doors and windows - detailed specifications for common building materials and
items of work as per I.S specifications - calculation of quantities of materials for items
of work.
UNIT-III
Preparation of conveyance statement - analysis of rate for items of works required for
civil engineering works - preparation of abstract of estimate of civil engineering works.
Preparation of bar bending schedule for some typical RCC elements.
UNIT-IV
Competitive bidding- Local competitive bidding, global bidding, item rate contract
percentage rate contract and Lumpsum contract. Preparing tender papers- Invitation
of tenders, tender notice, tender documents, (various terms and conditions to
contracts) submission. Scrutiny and acceptance. Award of jobs. Rights and
120
responsibilities of parties to contracts. Negotiated contracts. Cost plus percentage.
Cost plus fixed fees. Cost plus sliding scale of fees. Target cost as based on sharing
risk and profits. Turnkey contracts. More than two party contracts.
UNIT-V
Valuation - explanation of items - types of values - sinking fund - years purchase -
depreciation - straight line method - constant percentage method - S.F method -
obsolescence - valuation tables - valuation of real property - rental method - profit
based method - depreciation method - valuation of land - belting method -
development method - hypothecated building scheme method - rent calculation - lease
and lease hold property.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Estimating and Costing by B.N.Dutta, UBS Publishers, 2000
2. Estimating and Costing by G.S.Birdie
3 . M Chakravarty, Estimating, Costing Specifications & Valuation
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Relevant Indian Standard Specifications.
2. World Bank Approved Contract Documents.
3. Acts Related to Minimum Wages, Workman‟s Compensation, Contract, and
Arbitration.
121
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - I 3 1 3
(13CED024) GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING – II
Course Objectives
• To create ability to solve foundation engineering problems.
• Develop an understanding of sampling techniques in soils.
• Understanding the impact of engineering solutions related to the ground
stability.
• To create an understanding to design shallow and deep foundations.
Course Outcomes
• Develop an ability to apply knowledge of foundation engineering to improve
stability of the slopes.
• An ability to design an effective foundation system for economic and safe
aspects.
• An understanding of the various problems related to the different types of
foundations and their adoption to site conditions.
• An awareness on the available foundation systems and ability to select the
best suited to the soil condition
UNIT – I
Subsoil Exploration
Methods of subsoil exploration Direct, semi direct and indirect methods, Soundings by
Standard, Dynamic cone and static cone penetration tests, Types of Boring, Types of
samples, Criteria for undisturbed samples, Transport and preservation of samples,
Borelogs, planning of exploration programmes, report writing.
UNIT – II
Earth slope stability
Infinite and finite earth slopes – types of failures – factor of safety of infinite slopes –
stability analysis by Swedish arc method, standard method of slices, Bishop’s
Simplified method– Taylor’s Stability Number-
Stability of slopes of earth dams under different conditions.
UNIT – III
Earth Pressure
Types of Earth pressure. Rankines Active and passive earth pressure, Smooth Vertical
wall with horizontal backfill. Extension to Soil Coloumbs wedge theory, Culmans and
Rebhanns graphical method for active earth pressure. RETAINING WALLS: Types of
retaining walls - Stability of retaining walls.
122
UNIT – IV
Bearing Capacity
Safe bearing capacity and allowable bearing pressure, Terzaghi’s bearing capacity
equations its modifications for square, rectangular and circular foundation, General
and local shear failure conditions. Factors affecting bearing capacity of Soil. Allowable
bearing pressure based on N-values. Bearing capacity from plate load tests. Shallow
Foundations : Factors effecting locations of foundation and design considerations of
shallow foundations, choice of type of foundations. Foundations on expansive soils.
Settlement analysis
Causes of settlement, Computation of settlement, allowable settlement. Measures to
reduce settlement.
UNIT – V
Pile Foundations
Types, Construction, load carrying capacity of single pile – Dynamic Formula, Static
formula, Pile load tests, Load carrying capacity of pile groups, settlement of pile
groups, Negative skin friction.
TEXT BOOKS :
1. Analysis, Design of foundations and Earth retaining structures by Shamsher
Prakash, Gopal Ranjan and Swami Saran, IBH Publishers
2. Foundation Analysis and Design by J. E. Bowles.,Tata Mc-Graw Hill
Publishers
3. Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering by K.R. Arora,Standard
Publishers
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Foundation Design By W.C Teng, Prentice Hall Publishers
2. Geotechnical Engineering by VNS Murthy, CBS Publishers
3. Geotechnical Engineering by S.K.Gulhati & Manoj Datta
123
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-I 3 1 3
(13CED025) SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Develop an understanding the necessity of solid waste management
• Develop an understanding of the collection of solid waste
• Develop an understanding of solid waste disposal methods
• Develop an understanding of bio medical waste management and e-
waste management
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students
should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge of solid waste management
• Acquire the knowledge of solid waste disposal techniques
• Acquire the knowledge of Bio medical waste disposal techniques
• Acquire the knowledge of e- waste disposal techniques
UNIT – I
Introduction
Solid Waste problem, Meaning and definition of solid waste, concept and classification
of municipal solid waste, Impacts of solid waste on environment, Solid waste
management rules and regulations.
UNIT – II
Collection and Transfer of Municipal Solid Waste
Developing a solid waste collection and transfer system characterizing waste
generation, determining public and private collection/transfer options.
UNIT – III
Solid Waste management techniques
Solid waste management Hierarchy, waste avoidance /waste prevention, Definition of
source Reduction, waste reduction at source using 5R’s Technique.
UNIT – IV
Waste Disposal Techniques
Introduction, composting, principles of composting, factors affecting composting, vermi
composting, waste to energy techniques, Landfill technique, and design and operating
procedure of landfill.
124
UNIT – V
Solid waste management of Biomedical Waste, plastic and E- Waste
Biomedical Waste – Sources and generation, biomedical waste management. Plastic
– Dangers of plastic wastes, Recycling and disposal of plastic wastes. E-Wastes –
Definition, Health hazards, E-Waste management and conclusion.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Solid waste engineering P. Aarne Vesilind - Bucknell University
Ph.D. (Author), William A Worrell Cengage Learning publishers
2. Solid waste management by K. Sasi Kumar & S. Gopi Krishna Prentice-Hall
publishers
3. Solid Waste Management by Jagbir Singh (Author), A. L.
Ramanathan (Author) publisher I K International Publishing House Pvt. Ltd
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Management of Municipal Solid Waste by T.V. Ramachandra publisher The
Energy and Resources Institute, TERI
2. Municipal Solid Waste Management in India by Subhrabaran
Das (Author), Korobi Gogoi (Author) publisher VDM Verlag
3. Handbook of Solid Waste Management by George Tchobanoglous and
Frank Kreith publisher McGRAW-HILL
125
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-I 3 1 3
(13CED026) ADVANCED STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS
Course Objectives
• To apply the Displacement methods of analysis to frames with inclines legs
and gable frames.
• To understand the effects of moving loads on indeterminate structures
• To understand the flexibility and stiffness methods of analysis of beams,
frames and plane trusses
• To understand plastic analysis of beams and frames
Course Outcomes
At the end of the course student will be able to
• Ability to apply the displacement method to complex structural systems.
• Ability to understand the qualitative use of influence lines of indeterminate
beams and Trusses to loading positions for maximum internal forces
• Appreciate the advantage of using the displacement methods over force
methods for various structures.
• Understand the plastic analysis of structures and be able to determine
collapse load and collapse for beams and frames
UNIT - I
Moment Distribution method: Application to the analysis of portal frames with inclined
legs, gable frames
UNIT – II
Kani’s method-symmetrical frames-Applications to 2-storey- two bay portal frames
UNIT – III
Influence lines for Indeterminate structures : Muller -Breslau principles for statically
Indeterminate beams , Influence line diagrams for Reaction, Shearing force and
Bending moment in case of Indeterminate beams and Influence line diagrams for
member forces in statically Indeterminate trusses
UNIT – IV
Flexibility Method: Introduction to the structural analysis by flexibility concept using
Matrix approach and application to continuous beams
Stiffness method: Introduction to the structural analysis by stiffness concept using
Matrix approach and application to Plane frames and Plane Trusses.
126
UNIT – V
Plastic Analysis: Introduction – Idealized stress – Strain diagram – shape factors for
various sections – Moment curvature relationship – ultimate moment – Plastic hinge –
lower and upper bound theorems – ultimate strength of fixed and continuous beams.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Matrix methods of Structural Analysis by Pandit and Gupta – Tata
Mc.Graw Hill
2. Analysis of structures Vol. I & II by Vazrani and Ratwani. Khanna
publications.
3. Comprehensive Structural Analysis Vol.1 & 2 by Dr. Vaidyanathan and Dr.
P.Perumal - by Laxmi, publications Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Structural Analysis by D.S.Prakash Rao - Sagar books
2. Structural Analysis Vol. I & II by Bhavi Katti Vikas Publications.
3. Matrix structural analysis by T.N.Gayl; Tata Mc.Graw Hill company
127
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-I 3 1 3
(13CED027) ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Understand Environmental Impacts and the terminology
• Understands the environmental Impact assessment procedure
• Understands the EIA methodology
• Understand s environmental audits
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students
should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge of Environmental impacts
• Understand environmental clearances and guidelines
• Understands to prepare an audit report
• Understands environment laws and regulations
UNIT – I
Introduction to EIA, Definition of EIA and EIS. Preparation of EIS, Elements of EIA,
Classification of Environmental parameter, Initial Environmental Examination,
Preparation of Environmental Base map EIA procedure
UNIT – II
EIA methodology: Introduction, criteria for selection of EIA Methodology,
EIA methods, Adhoc method, Matrix method, Network method, Environmental media
quality Index method, Overlays method, Cost benefit analysis method
UNIT – III
Environmental impacts, Identification measurement, Aggregation, Secondary and
Cumulative Impacts, Environmental Guidelines and procedures, Environmental
clearance, Environmental Appraisal Procedure, Single window Clearance, Time frame,
Post project monitoring, Procedure for obtaining Environmental clearance for
industries, Forest clearance, Consent to operate Industrial unit, Consent to handle
hazardous chemicals in the Industrial unit
128
UNIT – IV
Assessment of Impact of developmental Activities on soil, ground water, surface water
vegetation, air, vegetation, wild life, Noise, Socio Economic Environment,
Environmental impact of Deforestation-Causes and effects of Deforestation
UNIT – V
Environmental Audit Types of environmental Audit ,Audit protocol, Stages of
Environmental Audit onsite activities ,evaluation of audit data and preparation of Audit
Report, Post Audit Activities, Case studies On EIA, Environmental laws and
regulations-Air act, Water act, environmental protection act.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Environmental Impact Analysis – Urban & Jain.
2. Environmental Impact Analysis – Canter, Mc. Graw Hill Publishers
3. Environmental Impact Analysis -Y.Anjaneyulu
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Introduction to Environmental Impact Assessment- John Glasson, Riki Therivel,
Andrew Chadwick publisher Routledge
2. Environmental Impact Assessment: Theory and Practice - Peter Wathern publisher
Taylor & Francis
3. Environmental Impact Assessment
129
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-I 3 1 3
(13CED028) BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• To learn Serviceability and Durability aspects
• Understand the Maintenance and Repair Strategies
• Understand Techniques for Repair
• To learn about different demolition techniques
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be
able to
• Acquire the knowledge of Quality Assurance for concrete construction
• Understand Causes of Deterioration, Testing Techniques
• Acquire the knowledge of repair techniques
• Understands Engineered demolition techniques
UNIT – I
General-Quality Assurance for concrete construction as Built Concrete property
Strength, Permeability, Thermal Properties and Cracking. Influence on Serviceability
and Durability-Effects due to climate, Temperature, Chemicals, Wear and Erosion,
Design and Construction errors, Corrosion Mechanism, Effects of Cover thickness and
Cracking, Methods of Corrosion protection, Corrosion Inhibitors, Corrosion Resistant
Steels, Coatings, Cathodic Protection.
UNIT – II
Maintenance and Repair Strategies-Definitions-Maintenance, repair and rehabilitation,
Facets of Maintenance, Importance of Maintenance, Preventive Measures on Various
Aspects, Inspection, Assessment Procedure for Evaluating for Damaged Structures,
Causes of Deterioration, Testing Techniques.
UNIT – III
Materials for Repair-Special Concretes and Mortar, Concrete chemicals, Special
Elements for accelerated strength gain, Expansive cement, Polymer Concrete,
Sulphur Infiltrated Concrete, Ferro Cement, Fiber Reinforced Concrete.
UNIT – IV
Techniques for Repair-Rust Eliminators and polymers coating for rebars during repair,
foamed concrete, mortar and dry pack, vacuum concrete, Gunite and shotcrete, Epoxy
Injection, Mortar Repairs for cracks, shoring and underpinning.
130
UNIT – V
Examples of Repair to Structures-Repairs to overcome low member strength,
deflection, cracking, chemical disruption, weathering wear, fire, leakage, marine
exposure. Engineered demolition techniques for dilapidated structures – case studies.
TEXT BOOKS
1. “Concrete Structures – Materials, Maintenance and Repair”, Dennison
Campbell, Allen and Harold Roper, Longman Scientific and Technical UK,
1991.
2. “Repair of Concrete Structures”, R.T. Allen and S.C. Edwards, Blakie and
Sons, UK, 1987.
3. “Concrete Technology -Theory and Practice” M.S. Shetty, S. Chand, New
Delhi, 1992.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. “Training Course Notes on Damage Assessment and Repair in Low Cost
Housing”, “RHDC – NBO” Santhakumar A.R., Anna University, 1992.
2. “Learning from Failures – Deficiencies in Design”, R.N. Raikar, Construction
and Service – R & D Centre (SDCPL), Raikar Bhavan, Mumbai, 1987.
3. “Estate Management, Anna Institute of Management”, N. Palaniappan,
Chennai, 1992.
131
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13CED108) GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING LAB
Course Objectives
• To introduce traditional program consisting mostly of practical courses
related to geotechnical engineering.
• To apply the knowledge of science, mathematics and engineering with the
context of applications in geotechnical engineering.
• To design and conduct experiments, analyze and interpret data related to the
various laboratory tests studied in geotechnical engineering.
• To classify the soils based on the index and engineering properties
Course outcomes
• An ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools
necessary for engineering practice.
• An opportunity to work in groups
• An ability to identify, formulate and practice the various soil identification and
classification tests.
• An ability to select, formulate or enhance the testing facilitates to cater the
requirement of selection of proper soil type as per the requirement.
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
1. Determination Of Moisture Content
2. Determination Of Specific Gravity
3. Field Density Test
4. Grain Size Analysis
A. Sieve Analysis B. Hydrometer Analysis
5. Determination Of Consistency Limits
6. Permeability Test
A. Constant Head Method B. Falling Head Method
7. CBR Test
8. Proctor Light And Heavy Compaction Test
9. Vane Shear Test
10. Direct Shear Test
11. Unconfined Compression Test
12. Unconsolidated and Undrained Triaxial Test
132
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13CED109) TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING LAB
Course Objectives
• Student will able to learn on test on aggregates materials used road
constructions along with its specifications for testing.
• Student will able to learn on Bitumen grading used for pavement
constructions
• Student will able to learn on tests on Bitumen materials along with its
specifications.
• Student will able to learn on test are performed for Bitumen mixes.
Course Outcomes
• Student will identify aggregate used in pavements along with its suitability
• Student will able identify and select the various Design strategies of
pavement using Lab Equipment.
• Student will able to evaluate on bitumen grades.
• Student will able to valuate stability and tensile strength parameters for
bitumen mixes.
Test on Road Aggregates
1. Aggregate Crushing Value
2. Aggregate Impact Value
3. Los Angeles Abrasion Test.
4. Shape Tests a) Elongation Index, b) Flakiness Index, c) Angularity
Number.
Test on Bitumen
1. Penetration Test
2. Softening Point test
3. Ductility Test
4. Viscosity grading
5. Bitumen Extraction Tests
Test on Bituminous Mixes
1. Marshal Stability Test
2. In-direct Tensile Test
*Note: Bituminous Mix design is carried as per MoRT&H & IRC specifications.
133
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ECE– I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13ENG102) ADVANCED ENGLISH COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
Introduction
This course aims to offer students a practical approach to Technical Writing, and
provide a relevant, contemporary and authoritative introduction to the dynamic field of
technical communication that prepares them for Workplace Communication. Each unit
in the syllabus is devised so as to include a writing component as well as an oral
component.
Course Objectives
• enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content to write
business letters, resume, SOP, Proposals and Technical Reports for
academics as well as for workplace
• enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific
target audience
• groom students to speak accurately and fluently and prepare them for real
world activities through behavioral skills.
• train students in soft skills through role play and group discussion to improve
their EQ.
Course Outcomes
Students will be able to:
• summarize and synthesize information and produce technical writing that is
required in academics as well as in the engineering profession
• write covering letters, resume, SOP, Project Proposals and Technical Reports
• speak fluently and address a large group of audience and participate in
debates and discussions.
• negotiate terms, manage complex situations through interpersonal skills,
persuade people and make quick decisions.
Methodology
Writing Component
A Process- Genre methodology will be used in teaching the technical genres. This
method would enable students to understand the use of particular lexico-grammatical
patterns required of in the context of technical writing. They would learn to use
134
language to express the particular communicative intent that is required of in the
context of writing these genres.
Syllabus Outline
UNIT I
1. Applications and Covering letters
2. Resume Writing
3. Verbal Ability: language, reading and listening, reasoning and analysis
4. Oral Communication :Talking About Yourself
UNIT II
1. Writing an SOP
2. Summarizing and Synthesizing Information (Precis Writing)
3. Oral Communication: Making Presentations
UNIT III
1. Writing Project Proposals
2. Oral Communication: Group Discussions
UNIT IV
1. Writing Project Reports
2. Oral Communication: Interview Skills
UNIT V
Behavioral Skills and Personality Development
1. Building a positive attitude, building a positive personality, Motivation, goal
setting & values & vision
2. Problem Solving and Decision Making; Negotiation Skills through Role Play
3. Team Building and Leadership Abilities
4. Social Etiquette
REQUIRED TEXT AND MATERIALS
1. Ashraf Rizvi, M (2005). Effective Technical Communication, Tata Mc Graw
Hill Publishing Company Limited, New Delhi.
2. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical
Communication: A Reader-Centered Approach ( 5th ed..) (pp. 457-473).
Boston: Heinle.
3. William S. Pfeiffer, (2012) Technical Communication: A Practical Approach
(7th ed.) Longman
REFERENCES
1. Burnett, Rebecca. Technical Communication. 5th Ed., Heinle, 2001.
2. Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson : Technical Writing Process and
Product. 3rd edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
135
3. Markel, Mike. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies (8th
EDITION (2006-2007)
4. R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan, Business Correspondence and Report Writing,
Third Edition, TMH, 2002. (Indian Edition)
M. Raman and S. Sharma, Technical Communication : Principles and Practices, OUP,
2004. (Indian Edition)
136
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13CED029) FINITE ELEMENT METHODS
Course objectives
• Understand the general steps of finite element methods.
• Understand the basic finite element formulation techniques.
• Equip the students with the Finite Element Analysis fundamentals.
• Enable the students to perform engineering simulations using Finite Element
Analysis software (ANSYS)
Course Outcomes
At the end of the course student will be able to
• An ability to solve multi-disciplinary problems
• Ability to derive equations in finite element methods for 1Dand 2D problems.
• Ability to formulate and solve basic problems in structural mechanics using
different elements.
• Ability to apply knowledge of mathematics and Engineering.
UNIT -I
Introduction
Concepts of FEM – Steps involved – merits & demerits – energy principles –
Discretization.
Principles of Elasticity: Equilibrium equations – strain displacement relationships in
matrix form – Constitutive relationships for plane stress, plane strain and Axi-
symmetric bodies of revolution with axi-symmetric loading.
UNIT –II
One Dimensional FEM
Stiffness matrix for bar element, beam element, plane truss - shape functions for one
dimensional elements – one dimensional problems.
UNIT –III
Two Dimensional FEM
Different types of elements for plane stress and plane strain analysis – Displacement
models – generalized coordinates – shape functions – convergent and compatibility
requirements – Geometric invariance – Natural coordinate system – area and volume
coordinates
137
UNIT –IV
Isoparametric formulation
Concepts of, isoparametric elements for 2D analysis -formulation of CST element, 4 –
noded and 8-noded iso-parametric quadrilateral elements –Lagrangian and
Serendipity elements.
UNIT-V
Solution Techniques
Numerical Integration, Static condensation, assembly of elements and solution
techniques for static loads.
TEXT BOOKS
1.Finite Elements Methods in Engineering by Tirupati.R. Chandrepatla and Ashok D.
Belegundu - Pearson Education Publications.
2. Finite element analysis by S.S. Bhavakatti-New age international publishers
3. Finite element analysis by David V Hutton, Tata Mcgraw Hill, New Delhi
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Concepts and Applications of Finite Element Analysis by Robert D.Cook, David S.
Malkus and Michael E.Plesha. Jhon Wiley & Sons.
2. Finite Element analysis – Theory & Programming by C.S.Krishna Murthy- Tata
Mc.Graw Hill Publishers.
3. Text book of Finite Element analysis by P.Seshu – Prentice Hall of India
138
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13CED030) Elements of RS & GIS
Course Objectives
• The remote sensing serves the purpose of accurate mapping of all features
under different spatial and temporal scales of all kinds of terrain and land
under water bodies.
• The remote sensing is advantageous comparatively to traditional surveying
techniques in terms of time, accuracy and output.
• Remote sensing serves the purpose of predictions of all scales.
• GIS is software which can be used for collecting, storing and analyzing of
data which is useful for real world applications.
Course Outcomes
• Based on the objective of study a student should have thorough knowledge
to choose the remote sensing image from different sensors, resolutions,
spatial and temporal scales.
• Remote sensing gives the provision of understanding and to comprehend
large tracks of earth surface with less time and cost but more accuracy.
• In case of dam construction, for a civil engineer it is must to have knowledge
of resource richness of an area, flow rates in stream, channel geometry with
respect to time, magnitudes of movement in crust, habitations etc.
• By GIS the student can communicate to the common man his analysis of
different problems developments, benefits by preparing different thematic
maps.
UNIT – I
Introduction to photogrammetry
Principle and types of aerial photographs, stereoscopy, Map vs Stereoscopy, Map vs
Mosaic, ground control, Parallax measurements for height, determinations.
UNIT – II
Introduction to remote sensing
Basic concepts & foundation of remote sensing- elements involved in remote sensing,
electromagnetic spectrum, remote sensing terminology & units, energy resources,
energy interactions with earth surface features & atmosphere.
139
UNIT – III
Remote sensing platforms and sensors
Resolution, types of sensors, IRS satellites, visual interpretation techniques, basic
elements, converging evidence, interpretation for terrain evaluation, spectral
properties of soil, water and vegetation.
UNIT – IV
Geographic information system
Introduction, GIS definition & terminology, GIS categories, components of GIS,
fundamental operations of GIS, A theoretical framework for GIS, Data collection &
input overview, data input & output, keyboard entry & co-ordinate geometry procedure,
manual digitizing & scanning, Raster GIS, Vector GIS-File management, Spatial data-
Layer based GIS, Feature based GIS mapping
UNIT – V
Applications of remote sensing and GIS
Land Use Land Cover mapping, agricultural applications, oceanographic applications,
urban and regional planning applications.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Remote sensing and its applications by LRA Narayana University Press
1999
2. Principals of Geophysical Information Systems-Peter A.Burragh & Rachael
A.Mc.Donnell, Oxford Publishers 2004.
3. Remote Sensing and Image Interpretation, Thomas Lillesand, Ralph W.
Kiefer, Jonathan Chipman , Wiley publishers.,6th Edition
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Concepts & Techniques of GIS by C.P.Lo Albert, K.W.Young, Prentice Hall
(India) Publications
2. Remote Sensing & Geographical Information systems by M.Anji Reddy
JNTU Hyderabad 2001, B.S.Publications.
3. GIS by Kang-tsung chang, TMH Publications & Co.
140
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13CED031) ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING - II
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Develop an understanding of estimation of sewage and storm water
• Develop an understanding of design of sewers
• Develop an understanding of waste water treatment process
• Develop an understanding of solid waste disposal and Industrial waste
treatment concepts
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students
should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge of the estimation of sewage and storm
water
• Acquire the knowledge of design of sewers
• Develop skills in design of waste water treatment plant
• Acquire the knowledge in Industrial waste treatment units
UNIT-I
Conservancy and water carriage systems –sewage and storm water estimation –time
of concentration-storm water overflows combined flow –characteristics of sewage –
cycles of decay –decomposition of sewage, examination of sewage –BOD-COD
equations.
UNIT-II
Design of sewers –shapes and materials –sewer appurtenances manholes –inverted
siphon-catch basins-flushing tanks –ejectors –house drainage –components
requirements –sanitary fittings-traps- one pipe and two pipe systems of plumbing-
ultimate diposal of sewage –sewage farming -dilution
UNIT-III
Layout and general outline of various units in a waste water treatment plant –primary
treatment design of screens –grit chambers –skimming tanks –sedimentation tanks-
principles and design of biological treatment- trickling filters –standard and high rate
Construction and design of oxidation ponds –sludge digestion tanks –
Sludge disposal by drying –septic tanks working principles and design-soak pits
141
UNIT-IV
Solid waste management-Sources, Composition and properties of solid waste-
collection and Handling- Separation and processing, solid waste disposal methods-
land filling, Incineration and composting
UNIT-V
Industrial waste treatment-Volume Reduction-Strength reduction-Neutralization-
equalization-proportioning
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Water supply and sanitary Engineering by G.S Birdi, Dhanpat Rai &Sons
Publishers.
2. Water supply Engineering Vol-I waste water engineering ,Vol.II, B.C
.Punmia, Ashok Jain & Arun Jain, Laxmi Publication Pvt ltd ,New Delhi
3. Water supply Engineering Vol-I waste water engineering ,Vol.II, S.K Garg,
Khanna publishers
REFERENCES:
1. Water and waste water Technology by mark J.Hammar and Mark J.Hammar Jr
2. Elements of Environmental engineering by K.N Duggal, S.Chand Publishers
3. Waste water treatment –concepts and design approach by G.LKaria and R.A
Christian, PHI
142
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective- II 3 1 3
(13CED032) PRESTRESSED CONCRETE
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Develop an understanding of the necessity of prestressed concrete
structures.
• Develop an understanding of various techniques of prestressing.
• Develop an understanding of various losses of prestress.
• Develop an understanding of the analysis of prestressed concrete
members.
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be
able to
• Acquire the knowledge of evolution of process of prestressing.
• Acquire the knowledge of various prestressing techniques.
• Develop skills in analysis of prestressed concrete beams, and slabs.
• Develop skills to satisfy the serviceability and strength provisions of the
Indian Standards (IS: 1343-1980).
UNIT – I
Introduction
Historic development – General principles of prestressing pretensioning and post
tensioning – Advantages and limitations of prestressed concrete – Materials – High
strength concrete and high tensile steel, their characteristics.
I.S.Code provisions, Methods and Systems of Prestressing; Pre-tensioning and post
tensioning methods – Analysis of post tensioning - Different systems of prestressing
like Hoyer System, Magnel System Freyssinet system and Gifford – Udall System.
UNIT – II
Losses of prestress
Loss of prestress in pre-tensioned and post-tensioned members due to various causes
like elastic shortening of concrete, shrinkage of concrete, creep of concrete,
Relaxation of steel, slip in anchorage bending of member and frictional losses.
143
UNIT – III
Analysis of sections for flexure
Elastic analysis of concrete beams prestressed with straight, concentric, eccentric,
bent and parabolic tendons.
UNIT – IV
Deflections of prestressed concrete beams
Importance of control of deflections – factors influencing deflections – short term
deflections of uncracked members prediction of long term deflections.
UNIT – V
Composite section
Introduction – Analysis of stress – Differential shrinkage – General designs
considerations.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Prestressed Concrete by Krishna Raju; - Tata Mc.Graw Hill Publications.
2. Prestressed Concrete by N.Rajasekharan; - Narosa publications.
3. Prestressed Concrete by Ramamrutham; Dhanpatrai Publications
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Limit-state Design of Prestressed Concrete, Volume 2, Yves Guyon, Halsted
Press Division, Wiley,
2. Design of Prestressed concrete structures (Third Edition) by T.Y. Lin & Ned
H.Burns, John Wiley & Sons.
3. Prestressed Concrete design by M. K Hurst,Spon press,USA
CODE BOOK
IS: 1343(1980), Prestressed concrete — code of practice
144
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-II 3 1 3
(13CED033) GROUND WATER DEVELOPMENT & MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives
• To impart to the students the concepts of Groundwater Development
and Management.
• To enable the students to understand the basic equations used in
Groundwater
• To enable the students to solve analytical problems
• To enable the students to do conduct basic ground water studies
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be
able to
• Use Darcy’s law
• Derive differential equation governing groundwater flow in three
dimensions
• Do analysis of pumping tests in steady and non steady flow cases
• Understand the saline water intrusion problem in groundwater
UNIT-I
Ground Water Occurrence
Ground water hydrologic cycle, origin of ground water, rock properties effecting ground
water, Vertical distribution of ground water, zone of aeration and zone of saturation,
geologic formation as aquifers, types of aquifers, porosity, specific yield and specific
retention. Ground Water Movement-Permeability, Darcy’s law, storage coefficient,
Transmissivity, Differential equation governing ground water flow in three dimensions
derivation, ground water flow equation in polar coordinate system, ground water flow
contours and their applications.
UNIT-II
Analysis of Pumping Test Data-I
Steady flow ground water flow towards a well in confined and unconfined aquifers-
Dupit’s and Theism’s equations, assumptions, formation constants, yield of an open
well interface and well tests.
UNIT-III
Analysis of Pumping Test Data-II
Unsteady flow towards well-Non Equilibrium equations, Thesis solution, Jocob and
Chow’s simplifications, Leak aquifers.
145
UNIT-IV
Surface and sub-surface Investigation
surface methods of exploration-Electrical resistivity method and Seismic refraction
methods. Subsurface methods geophysical logging and resistivity logging. Concept of
artificial recharge of ground water ,recharge methods, Applications of GIS and RS in
artificial recharge of ground water along with case studies.
UNIT-V
Saline water intrusion in aquifer
Occurrence of saline water intrusion, Ghyben-Herzberg relation, Shape of interface,
control of water intrusion. Ground water basin management-case studies.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Ground water Hydrology by David Keith Todd, John Wiley & Son, New York.
2. Ground water by H.M.Raghunath, Wiley Eastern Ltd.
3. Groundwater System Planning & Management, R. Willes & W.W.G. Yeh,
Printice Hall.
Reference Books
1. Ground water by Bawvwr, John Wiley & Sons.
2. Applied Hydrogeology by C.W.Fetta,CBS Publishers & Distributors.
3. Ground Water Assessment, Development and Management by K R Karanth,
Mc Graw Hill Publications.
146
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-II 3 1 3
(13CED034) DESIGN AND DRAWING OF HYDRAULIC STRUCTURES
Course Objectives
• The basic aim is to understand and control of flows in open channels and
canals for the benefit of society.
• To get hand-on experience in drawing of irrigation and environmental
engineering structures
• To learn about architecture and design of weirs
• To develop design and drawing skills of various energy dissipation structures
Course Outcomes
After completion of this course, student should be able to:
• Analyze and design different dams and select the proper dam for any
practical problem he may encounter in his professional life.
• Analyze, design and draw different spillways and design and supervise the
construction of water conveyance structures.
• Design and draw various canal protection structures.
• Design and draw of various energy dissipation structures.
Design and drawing of the following hydraulic structures
1. Slopping glacis weir
2. Tank sluice with tower head
3. Type III Syphon aqueduct
4. Surplus weir
5. Trapezoidal notch fall
6. Canal regulator
TEXT BOOKS
1. Design of minor irrigation and canal structures by C.Satyanarayana murthy,
New Age International Publishers, New Delhi
2. Irrigation Engineering and Hydraulic Structures by S.K.Garg, S.K. Khanna
Publishers.
3. Text book of irrigation Engineering & Hydraulic Structures – R.K. Sharma,
Oxford & IBH Publishing Company, New Delhi (2002).
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Hydraulic Structures; P. Novak, AIB Moffat, C. Nalluri, and R.
Narayanan: Taylor & Francis, New York
2. Design Textbooks in Civil Engineering – Irrigation Engineering – Vol VI –
Dams; L Leliavsky; Chapman & Hall
3. Theory and Design of Irrigation Structures; Varshney, Gupta, Gupta; Nem
Chand.
147
IS Codes
IS Code 6512: Criteria for Design of Solid Gravity Dams
IS Code 1893: Criteria for Earthquake Resistant Design of Structures
IS Code 4410 : Part 22 : 1994 Glossary of terms relating to river valley
projects: Part 22 Barrages & weirs
IS Code 6966 : Part 1 : 1989 Guidelines for hydraulic design of barrages and
weirs: Part 1 Alluvial Reaches
IS Code 7349 : 1989 Guidelines for operation and maintenance of barrages
and weirs
IS Code 7720 : 1991 Criteria for Investigation, Planning and Layout for
Barrages and Weirs
IS Code 11130 : 1984 Criteria for Structural Design of Barrages and Weirs
IS Code 14955 : 2001 Guidelines for Hydraulic Model Studies of Barrages and
Weirs
Final Examination pattern: Any two questions of the above six designs may be
asked out of which the candidate has to answer one question. The duration of
examination will be three hours.
148
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-II 3 1 3
(13CED035) AIRPORT PLANNING & DESIGN
Course Objectives
• Student will understand the classification of airports and related aircraft
characteristics
• Student will understand the site selection for airport
• Student will explain the grading and drainage of airport
• Student will explain the air traffic control aids
Course Outcomes
Students who successfully complete this course will be able to
• Design the runway length and estimate the corrected runway length
• Planning and designing the terminal area
• Marking runway and taxiway areas
• Structural design of airport pavements & visual aids
UNIT-I
Introduction & aircraft characteristics
General, Requirements of Aircraft Types, Field Length Regulations, Restrictions On
Payload- Range Performance, Weight Components, Airplane Components Parts,
Military And Civil Aircrafts, Civil Military Co-Ordination, Classification Of Flying
Activity, Relation Of Aircraft To Landing Facility, Aircraft Characteristics, Future
Trends In Aircraft Design
UNIT-II
Airport obstructions & runway design
Zoning Laws, Classification of Obstructions, Turning Zone, Runway Orientation,
Basic Runway Length, Correction for Elevation, Temperature and Gradient, Airport
Classification Runway Geometric Design
UNIT-III
Taxiway design & terminal area
Factors Controlling Taxiway Layout, Geometric Design Standards, Exit Taxiways,
Fillets, Separation Clearance, Holding Apron, Turnaround or Bypass Taxiway
Building and Building Area, Vehicular Circulation and Parking Area, Apron, Hangar,
Blast Considerations, Typical Airport Layouts
149
UNIT-IV
Airport planning
General, Airport Master Plan, Regional Planning, Data Required Before Site
Selection, Airport Site Selection, Surveys For Site Selection, Drawings To Be
Prepared, Estimation Of Future Air Traffic Needs
UNIT-V
Structural design of airport pavements & visual aids
Introduction, Various Design Factors, Design Methods For Flexible Pavements,
Design Method For Air Field Rigid Pavements, Influence Chart For The Moment Mn
In A Concrete Pavement Due To A Load In The Interior Of The Slab, LCN System
Of Pavement Design, Joints In Cement Concrete Pavements, Special Consideration
For Design Of Pavement Facilities For V/Stol Operations, Airport Marking, Airport
Lighting.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Airport planning & Design - S. K. Khanna SS Arora MG Arora Jain
Publications
2. Planning & Design of Airports – Robert M. Horonjeff, Francis X Mc Graw Hill
Professional
3. Airport Engineering: Planning, Design and Development of 21st Century
Airports by Norman J. Ashford, Saleh Mumayiz, Paul H. Wright, Mc. Graw
Hill Professional
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Airport engineering – norman j ashford mc. Graw hill professional
2. Airport planning and management by Seth Young and Alexander Wells, Mc Graw
Hill
3. Airport Operations by Norman J. Ashford, H. P. Martin Stanton , Mc Graw Hill
150
Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-II 3 1 3
(13CED036) INDUSTRIAL WASTE & WASTE WATER MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Develop an understanding the necessity of Industrial waste & waste
water management
• Develop an understanding quality requirement of industrial waste water
• Develop an understanding treatment of Industrial waste water
• Develop an understanding of Common Effluent Treatment plant
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be
able to
• Acquire the knowledge of solid waste management
• Acquire the knowledge of solid waste disposal techniques
• Acquire the knowledge of Bio medical waste disposal techniques
• Acquire the knowledge of e- waste disposal techniques
UNIT-I
Quality requirements of boiler and cooling waters – quality requirements of process
water for textiles – food processing and Brewery industries – boiler and cooling water
treatment methods.
UNIT-II
Basic theories of industrial waste water management – volume reduction – strength
reduction – neutralization – equalization and proportioning. Joint treatment of industrial
waste and domestic sewage – consequent problems.
UNIT-III
Industrial waste water discharges into streams, lakes and oceans and problems.
Recirculation of industrial wastes – use of municipal waste water in industries.
UNIT –IV
Manufacturing process and design origin of liquid waste from textiles, paper and pulp
industries, thermal power plants tanneries, fertilizers, distillers, diary, sugar mills, steel
plants, oil refineries, and pharmaceutical plants, special characteristics, effects and
treatment methods.
151
UNIT –V
Common Effluent Treatment plants –Advantages and suitability, limitations, Effluent
Disposal Methods
TEXT BOOKS
1. Waste water Treatment by M.N.Rao and Dutta, Oxford &IBH, New Delhi
2. Industrial waste water treatment by A. D. Patwardhan PHI Learning Pvt. Ltd
3. Sustainable Industrial Design and Waste Management by Salah El Haggar
Publisher Elsevier Academic press
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Liquid waste of industry by Newmerow
2. Water and waste water technology by Mark J.Hammmerand mark J.Hammer
(Jr)
3. Wastewater Treatment and Technology by Christopher F. Forster publisher
Thomas Telford books
152
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CE- I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective 3 0 3
(13CED037) DISASTER MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Understand the difference between a hazard and disaster
• Know about various disasters and their impacts
• Understand Different approaches of disaster risk reduction
• Understand Disaster risks in India
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be
able to
• Acquire the knowledge disaster Management
• Understand the vulnerability of ecosystem and infrastructure due to a
disaster
• Acquire the knowledge of Disaster Management Phases
• Understand the hazard and vulnerability profile of India
UNIT-1
Introduction to disaster
Concepts and definitions (Disaster, Hazard, Vulnerability, Resilience, Risks)
UNIT-II
Disasters: Classifications, Causes, Impacts (including social, economic, political,
environment, health, psychosocial, etc.)
Differential impacts-in terms of caste, class, gender, age, location, disability Global
trends in disasters. Urban disaster, pandemics, complex emergencies, Climate change
UNIT-III
Approaches to disaster Risk reduction
Disaster cycle-its analysis, phase, Culture of safety, prevention, mitigation and
preparedness, community based DRR, Structural measures, roles and responsibilities
of community. Panchayati Raj Institutions/Urban Local Bodies (PRIs/ULBs), states,
center and other stake-holders.
UNIT-IV
Inter-relationship between Disaster and Development
Factors affecting Vulnerabilities, differential impacts, impact of development projects
such as dams, embankments, change in land-use etc. Climate change Adaption.
Relevance of indigenous knowledge, appropriate technology and local resources.
153
UNIT-V
Disaster Risk Management in India
Hazard and vulnerability profile of India
Components of Disaster relief: Water, food, sanitation, shelter, health, waste
management Institutional arrangements (Mitigation, Response and Preparedness, DM
Act Policy, Other related polices, plan, programmes and legislation)
Project Work :( Field Work, Case Studies)
The project/fieldwork is meant for students to understand vulnerabilities and to work
on reducing disaster risks and to build a culture of safety. Projects must be conceived
creatively based on the geographic location and hazard.
Suggested Reading list:
1. Alexander David, Introduction in ‘Confronting Catastrophe’, oxford University
press, 2000
2. Andharia J. Vulnerability in disaster Discourse, JTCDM, Tata Institute of Social
Sciences working paper no.8, 2008
3. Blaikie, P, Cannon T, Davis I, Wisner B 1997. At Risk Natural Hazards,
Peoples’ Vulnerability and Disaster, Rutledge.
4. Coppola P Damon, 2007. Introduction to International Disaster Management.
5. Carter, Nick 1991.Disaster Management: A Disaster Manager’s Handbook.
Asian Development Bank, Manila Philippines.
6. Cuny,F.1983. Development and Disasters, Oxford University Press
7. Govt.of India; Disaster Management Act 2005,Government of India, New
Delhi.
154
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective 3 0 3
(13EEE015) RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES
Course Objectives
• To inculcate the awareness of energy conservation in students
• To understand the use of renewable energy sources for electrical power
generation
• To know different energy storage methods
• To learn about environmental effects of energy conversion
Course Outcomes
Upon the completion of this subject, the student will be able
• To use different renewable energy sources to produce electrical power
• To minimize the use of conventional energy sources to produce electrical
energy
• To identify the fact that the conventional energy resources are depleted
• To store energy and to avoid the environmental pollution
UNIT- I
PRINCIPLES OF SOLAR RADIATION
Role and Potential of New and Renewable source, the solar energy option,
Environmental impact of solar power, Physics of the Sun, The solar constant,
Extraterrestrial and Terrestrial solar radiation, Solar radiation on titled surface,
Instruments for measuring solar radiation and sun shine, solar radiation data.
UNIT- II
SOLAR ENERGY COLLECTION & APPLICATIONS
Flat Plate Collectors and Concentrating Collectors, Classification of concentrating
collectors, Orientation and Thermal analysis, advanced collectors, Solar ponds, Solar
Energy Applications - solar heating/cooling techniques, solar distillation and drying,
Photovoltaic Energy Conversion.
UNIT- III
WIND ENERGY
Sources and potentials, Horizontal and Vertical axis wind mills - Types, Blade Design,
Performance characteristics, Betz criteria, Induction Generators for Wind power
Generation, MHD Generation.
155
UNIT - IV
BIO-MASS & DEC
Principles of Bio-Conversion, Anaerobic/aerobic digestion, Types of Bio-gas Digesters,
gas yield, Combustion characteristics of bio-gas, Utilization for cooking, Economic
aspects.
Direct Energy Conversion, Need for DEC, Principles of DEC, Carnot Cycle and
Limitations.
UNIT - V
HARNESSING GEOTHERMAL ENERGY & OCEAN ENERGY
Resources of Geothermal Energy, Types of wells, Methods of harnessing the energy,
potential in India, Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion, Principles, Utilization, Setting of
OTEC plants, Thermodynamic cycles, Tidal and Wave energy: Potential and
Conversion Techniques, Mini-Hydel Power plants.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Non-Conventional Energy Sources by G.D.Rai, Khanna Publishers.
2. Renewable Energy Resources by Twidell and Wier, CRC Press (Taylor and
Francis).
3. Non- Conventional energy resources by B.H.Khan, Tata Mc Graw-Hill, 2006.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Renewable Energy Resources by Tiwari and Ghosal, Narosa.
2. Renewable Energy Technologies by Ramesh and Kumar, Narosa.
3. Non-Conventional Energy Systems by K Mittal, Wheeler Publishing House.
4. Renewable Energy Sources and Emerging Technologies by D.P.Kothari,
K.C.Singhal, PHI.
156
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CE – I sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective 3 0 3
(13MED077) OPTIMIZATION TECHNIQUES
Course Objectives
• To understand linear programming
• To understand optimization problem statement.
• To understand single variable and multi variable optimization problems with
equality and inequality constraints
• To understand various optimization techniques.
Course Outcomes
Students will be able to:
• Formulate mathematical statement of optimization problem
• Understand multivariable optimization
• Understand various methods of optimization techniques
• Understand the concept of genetic algorithm
UNIT-I
Statement of an Optimization problem – design vector – design constraints –
constraint surface – objective function – objective function surfaces – classification of
Optimization problems, Use of optimization methods. Introduction to classical
optimization techniques, motivation to the simplex method, simplex algorithm,
sensitivity analysis.
UNIT-II
Single variable Optimization – multi variable Optimization without constraints –
necessary and sufficient conditions for minimum/maximum – multivariable
Optimization with equality constraints. Solution by method of Lagrange multipliers –
multivariable Optimization with inequality constraints – Kuhn – Tucker conditions.
Search methods - Unrestricted search, exhaustive search, Fibonacci method, Golden
section method, Direct search method, Random search methods, Univariate method,
Pattern search method.
UNIT-III
Descent methods, Gradient of function, steepest decent method, conjugate gradient
method. Characteristics of constrained problem, Direct methods, The complex
method, cutting plane method.
UNIT-IV
Review of a global optimization techniques such as Monte Carlo method,
Simulated annealing and Tunneling algorithm.
157
UNIT-V
Genetic algorithm - Selection process, Crossover, Mutation, Schema theorem,
comparison between binary and floating point implementation.
TEXT BOOKS
1. SS Rao, “Optimization techniques”, PHI, 1989.
2. Operations Research : An Introduction” – by H.A. Taha, PHI Pvt. Ltd., 6th
edition.
3. Introductory Operations Research” by H.S. Kasene & K.D. Kumar,
Springer(India), Pvt .LTD.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Zhigmiew Michelewicz, “Genetic algorithms + data structures = Evaluation
programs”, Springer Verlog - 1992.
2. Weldo D.J., “Optimum seeking method”, PHI, 1964.
3. Optimization Methods in Operations Research and systems Analysis” – by
K.V. Mital and C. Mohan, New Age International (P) Limited, Publishers, 3rd
edition, 1996.
4. Linear Programming – by G. Hadley
158
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CE – I sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective 3 0 3
(13CSE076) RELATIONALDATA BASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Course Objectives
• To present an introduction to database management systems (DBMS) and
relational data model.
• To provide an emphasis on how to organize, maintain and retrieve
information efficiently and effectivelyfrom a DBMS.
• To introduce the concepts of transactions and transaction processing
• To present the issues and techniques relating to concurrency in multi-user
database environments
Course Outcomes
• The students should be able to:
• Understand the fundamental concepts of database management. These
concepts include aspects of database design, database languages, and
database-system implementation.
• The students will be able to design and query databases, as well as
understand the internals of databases.
• Define basic functions of DBMS & RDBMS.
• Describe database development process.
• Apply the Relational Database Model to understand the Logical and Physical
aspects of the DBMS architecture.
• Analyze database models & entity relationship models.
• Draw the E-R diagram for the given case study.
UNIT-I
Introduction to Databases and Database Management System - Database system
Applications - Advantages of DBMS over File System - Data Models – Instances and
schema - View of Data - Database Languages -DDL-DML - Database Users and
Administrator - Database System Structure.
UNIT-II
Database Design and ER diagrams – Attributes and Entity Sets – Relationships and
Relationship Sets – Constraints - Keys - Design Issues - Entity-Relationship
Diagram- Weak Entity Sets - Extended E-R Features- Database Design with ER
model - Database Design for Banking Enterprise
159
UNIT – III
Introduction to the Relational Model – Structure of RDBMS - Integrity Constraints over
Relations – Enforcing Integrity Constraints – Querying Relational Data - Relational
Algebra and Calculus.
Introduction to SQL- Data Definition commands, Data Manipulation Commands, Basic
Structure, Set operations Aggregate Operations - Join operations - Sub queries and
correlated queries, SQL functions , views ,Triggers.
UNIT – IV
Functional Dependencies– Introduction , Basic Definitions, Trivial and Non trivial
dependencies, closure of a set of dependencies, closure of attributes, irreducible set
of dependencies- Schema Refinement in Database Design- Problems Caused by
Redundancy – Decompositions – Problem Related to Decomposition –- Lossless Join
Decomposition – Dependency Preserving Decomposition - FIRST, SECOND, THIRD
Normal Forms – BCNF ––
UNIT-V
Transaction concept- Transaction state- Implementation of atomicity and Durability-
Concurrent executions – Serializability, Recoverability
Lock Based Protocols, Timestamp Based Protocols, Validation Based Protocols,
File Organization – Organization of records in file - Data Dictionary Storage –Basic
Concepts , Ordered Indices,B+Tree Index files.
TEXTBOOKS
1. Database System Concepts, Silberschatz, Korth , Fifth Edition, McGraw hill (
1,2,3 & 5 Units)
2. Database Management Systems, Raghuramakrishnan, Johannes Gehrke,
TATA Mc Graw Hill(1,2,3 & 5 Units)
3. Introduction to Database Systems, C.J.Date, Pearson Education (4th Unit)
REFERENCES
1. Fundamentals of Database Systems, Elmasri Navrate Pearson Education
2. Data base Systems design, Implementation, and Management, Peter Rob &
Carlos Coronel 7th Edition.
160
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CE- I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective 3 0 3
(13CSE012) CYBER SECURITY
Course Objectives
• This course provides an overview of Information Security and Assurance
over the Internet.
• Students will be exposed to the spectrum of security activities, methods,
methodologies, and procedures with emphasis on practical aspects of
Information Security
• In this course Service Processes, storage and security management, Cyber
Forensics and standard, laws and Acts for Information Security will be learnt
Course Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
• Understand security principles, threats and attack techniques
• Describe authentication and access control
• Describe reference monitors, and security models
• Understand Service Delivery and support process
• Understand network security and operating system security
• Understand storage and security management
• Understand Cyber forensics and use tools for imaging and recovery
UNIT-I.
INTRODUCTION: Introduction and Overview of Cyber Crime, Nature and Scope of
Cyber Crime, Types of Cyber Crime: Social Engineering, Categories of Cyber Crime,
Property Cyber Crime. CYBER CRIME ISSUES: Unauthorized Access to Computers,
Computer Intrusions, White collar Crimes, Viruses and Malicious Code, Internet
Hacking and Cracking, Virus Attacks, Pornography, Software Piracy, Intellectual
Property, Mail Bombs, Exploitation ,Stalking and Obscenity in Internet, Digital laws and
legislation, Law Enforcement Roles and Responses.Security Policy Design, Designing
Security Procedures, Risk Assessment Techniques, Security standards, Biba Model,
Chinese wall, Bell La Pedula Model.
UNIT-II:
SERVICE DELIVERY PROCESS- Service Delivery Process, Service Level
Management, Financial Management, Service Management, Capacity Management,
Availability Management.
SERVICE SUPPORT PROCESS- Service Support Process, Configuration
Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management,
Release Management.
161
UNIT-III:
STORAGE MANAGEMENT- Backup & Storage, Archive & Retrieve, Disaster
Recovery, Space Management, Database & Application Protection, Bare Machine
Recovery, Data Retention
SECURITY MANAGEMENT- Security, Computer and internet Security, Physical
Security,Identity Management, Access Management. Intrusion Detection, Security
Information Management.
UNIT-IV:
Cyber Forensics- Introduction to Digital Forensics, Forensic Software and Hardware,
Analysis and Advanced Tools, Forensic Technology and Practices, Forensic Ballistics
and Photography, Face, Iris and Fingerprint Recognition, Audio Video Analysis,
Windows System Forensics, Linux System Forensics, Network Forensics Evaluation of
crime scene and evidence collection ,Usage of tools for disk imaging and recovery
processes.
UNIT-V
Introduction to Information Security Standards , Laws and Acts: Laws and
Ethics, Digital Evidence Controls, Evidence Handling Procedures, Basics of Indian
Evidence ACT IPC and CrPC , Electronic Communication Privacy ACT, Legal
Policies,ISO 27001,PCI DSS,IT Act, Copy Right Act.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Nelson Phillips and EnfingerSteuart, “Computer Forensics and Investigations”,
Cengage Learning, New Delhi, 2009.
2. "Management of Information Security", M. E. Whitman, H. J. Mattord, Nelson
Education / CENGAGE Learning, 2011, 3rd Edition.
3. "Guide to Computer Forensics and Investigations", B. Nelson, A. Phillips, F.
Enfinger, C. Steuart, Nelson Education / CENGAGE Learning, 2010, 4th
Edition.
4. GoelRitendra, Computer Application in Management, New Age International
Publishers, New Delhi.
5. Chowdhury G.G., Text Retrieval Systems in information Management, New
Age International Publishers, New Delhi.
162
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13CED110) CAD LAB
Course Objectives
• Understand the GUI of the analysis package
• Understands the geometric modeling
• Understands pre and post processors
• How to interpret the results
Course Outcomes
At the end of the course student will be able to
• Able to model a geometry
• Able to represent the physical model of s structural element/structure
• Able to do post processing
• Able to design the structural elements
CAD :
1. Analysis of simple beams
2. Analysis of continuous beams
3. 2-D RC frame analysis and Design
4. Steel Truss analysis and Design
a) using angle sections
b) using tubular sections
5. 3-D RC frame analysis and Design
6. Analysis of a multi-storey building subjected to seismic forces as per
IS:1893:2002
7. Analysis of a multi-storey building subjected to wind forces
8. Analysis and Design of a simple tower
Software: STAAD. Pro or Equivalent
163
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13CED111) GIS LAB
Course Objectives
• Understands Arial photograph interpretation
• Understand analog to digital conversions
• Understands data creation and editing
• Understands buffering techniques
Course Outcomes
At the end of the course student will be able to
• Interpret Arial photographs
• Able to classify images and detect the changes from imageries
• Able to do create database
• Able to interpret data
REMOTE SENSING:
1. Arial photograph interpretation
2. Visual interpretation of multispectral and panchromatic image
3. Image classification, supervised and unsupervised classifications
4. Change detection from multi-date imagery
GIS:
1. Analog to Digital Conversion – Scanning methods
2. Introduction to software
3. Digital database creation – Point features, Line features, Polygon features
4. Data Editing-Removal of errors – Overshoot & Undershoot, Snapping
5. Data Collection and Integration, Non-spatial data attachment working with
tables
6. Dissolving and Merging
7. Clipping, Intersection and Union
8. Buffering techniques
9. Spatial and Attribute query and Analysis
10. DEM
Remote Sensing & GIS Software:
1. Arc GIS 9.0
2. ERDAS 8.7
3. Mapinfo 6.5
164
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13CED112) ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING LAB
Course Objectives
• Understands the to procedures determine water quality
• Understand procedures to determine waste water quality
• Understand procedures to determine the industrial water quality
• Understands the water sampling, waste water sampling &water quality
standards
Course outcomes
At the end of the course student will be able to
• test water samples
• test waste water samples
• test Industrial waste water samples
• knows water quality& waste water standards
List of the Experiments
1. pH & Conductivity. Determination of pH and conductivity of water and waste
water.
2. Turbidity & Jar Test . Determination of turbidity of water and wastewater by
Nephelometry.
3. Hardness.
4. Acidity estimation. Determination of Acidity as CACO by fitrimetric method
3
5. Alkalinity estimation.
6. Residual Chlorine.
7. Fluorides.
8. Optimum dosage of coagulant by jar test. Determination of optimum dosage
of coagulars using Jar test(flocculation test)
9. Estimation of Total Solids : Settleable Solids : Suspended solids, dissolved
solids.
10. D.O. Determination of D.O polarographic probe method
11. B. O. D.
12. C. O. D.
13. Chlorides. Determination of chloride by Mohr’s aryentometric method
165
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13CED038) PAVEMENT ANALYSIS, DESIGN & EVALUATION
Course Objectives
• Understand the basic modeling concepts used to analyze flexible and rigid
pavements.
• Appreciate pavement management concepts to better manage road
pavement.
• Apply the various types of highway appurtenance to enhance the safety of
motorists.
• Learn to estimate traffic noise and the effect of noise attenuation measures.
Course Outcomes
At the end of the course, students will be able to:
• Design flexible and rigid pavements
• Propose a pavement management system framework
• Design highway appurtenance and highway drainage
• Design mitigation measures to attenuate traffic noise
UNIT – I
Some Fundamentals of Pavements
Functions and Desirable characteristics of Pavements, Types of pavements,
Comparision of Flexible and rigid pavements, Functions of Individual Layers, Factors
affecting design of pavements – wheel loads –ESWL Concept- tyre pressure – contact
pressure, Material characteristics – Environmental and other factors.
UNIT –II
Design of Flexible pavements
Stresses in Flexible pavements – Visco elasic theory and assumptions, Layerd system
concepts, Stress solution for one and two layered systems, Fundamental design
concepts, Methods of design of flexible pavements, AASHTO and IRC method of
Pavement design.
UNIT –III
Design of Rigid Pavement
Stresses in Rigid pavements - relative stiffness of slab, modulus of sub-grade reaction
– stresses due to warping, stresses due to loads, stresses due to friction,
Westergard’s theory and assumptions, IRC method of Rigid pavement design –
Importance of Joints in Rigid Pavements- Types of Joints – Use of Tie Bars and
Dowell Bars, AASHTO method of Design.
166
UNIT – IV
Highway Materials and Construction Aspects
Highway Materials – Soil, Aggregate and Bitumen- Tests on aggregates – Aggregate
Properties and their Importance- Tests on Bitumen – Bituminous Concrete-
Requirements of Design Mix- Marshall’s Method of Bituminous Mix design, Highway
construction – Construction of Earth Roads- Gravel Roads – WBM Roads- Bituminous
Pavements- Cement Concrete Roads- Steps in Construction- Reinforced Concrete
Pavements – Soil Stabilization – Methods and Objectives- Soil-cement Stabilization
and Soil-lime Stabilization.
UNIT – V
Pavement Evaluation
Need for Highway Maintenance- Pavement Failures- Failures in Flexible Pavements-
Types and Causes-Rigid Pavement Failures- Types and causes- Pavement
Evaluation- Benkleman Beam method- Strengthening of Existing Pavements-
Overlays, IRC method of Overlay design, Importance of profile correction course.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Highway Engineering – S.K.Khanna & C.J.Justo, Nemchand & Bros.,
7th Edition (2000).
2. Principles and Practices of Highway Engineering – Dr.L.R.Kadiyali &
Dr.N.B.Lal – Khanna publishers – (2003).
3. Highway Materials”, Part I and II, American Association of State
Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO), 2004. (Reserved in
Brent Vaughn’s office)
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Principles of Pavement design, Yoder.& Witzorac Mathew, John Wiley &
Sons Inc.
2. Pavement Analysis and Design, Yang H. Huang, Prentice Hall Inc.
3. IRC codes for Design of Flexible and Rigid Pavements.
167
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective- III 3 1 3
(13CED039) WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives
• The primary objective of this course is to develop an understanding of the
processes and fluxes of mass and energy within a watershed and how land
use changes potentially affect these processes.
• To learn how science-based management principles may be applied to
watershed systems.
• To develop/improve critical problem solving, quantitative and data analysis
skills commonly used by natural resource managers.
• Understand potential environmental effects of various land and water uses
and how these resources can benefit from integrated watershed
management.
Course Outcomes
After completion of this course, student should be able to
• Comprehend the physical, biological and environmental aspects and their
interrelations within a watershed; choose and apply available system tools
for system intervention.
• Comprehend the participatory decision making processes; comprehend the
interdependencies between natural resources and management at different
locations in land and water management.
• Formulate a vision and design a sustainable watershed management plan
that shows an integrated approach towards multiple use of land- and water
resources and social equity and economic viability.
• Work in multidisciplinary and multicultural groups (with respect for different
views, expertise and culture); reflect on own contribution to group work and
on group processes.
UNIT-I
Introduction
Concept of watershed development, objectives of watershed development, need for
watershed development in India, Integrated and multidisciplinary approach for
watershed management.
UNIT-II
Characteristics of watershed
Size, shape, physiography, slope, climate, drainage, land use, vegetation, geology
and soils, hydrology and hydrogeology, socio-economic characteristics, basic data on
168
watersheds.
UNIT-III
Principles and measures to control erosion
Types of erosion, factors affecting erosion, effects of erosion on land fertility and land
capability, estimation of soil loss due to erosion, Universal soil loss equation. Contour
techniques, ploughing, furrowing, trenching, bunding, terracing, gully control, rockfill
dams, brushwood dam, Gabion.
UNIT-IV
Water harvesting
Rainwater Harvesting, catchment harvesting, harvesting structures, soil moisture
conservation, check dams, artificial recharge, farm ponds, and percolation tanks.
UNIT-V
Land and ecosystem management
Land use and Land capability classification, management of forest, agricultural,
grassland and wild land. Reclamation of saline and alkaline soils. Role of Ecosystem,
crop husbandry, soil enrichment, inter, mixed and strip cropping, cropping pattern,
sustainable agriculture, bio-mass management, dry land agriculture, Silvi pasture,
horticulture, social forestry and afforestation.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Watershed Management by JVS Murthy, - New Age International Publishers.
2. Water Resource Engineering by R.Awurbs and WP James, - Prentice Hall
Publishers.
3. Integrated Watershed Management: Principles and Practice, Isobel W. Heathcote,
Wiley publications
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Land and Water Management by VVN Murthy, - Kalyani Publications.
2. Irrigation and Water Management by D.K.Majumdar, Printice Hall of India
3. Watershed Management Issues and Approaches - Timothy O. Randhir, Published
by IWA Publishing, Alliance House, 12 Caxton Street, London SW1H 0QS, UK
169
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective- III 3 1 3
(13CED040) CONSTRUCTION TECHNOLOGY & PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives
Students will be able to:
• Learn the fundamentals of construction law.
• Learn the fundamentals of construction safety.
• Understand various equipments used in construction.
• Learn Fundamentals of Project Planning.
Course Outcomes
At the end of the course, students will be able to:
• Differentiate construction equipment.
• Prepare Plan and control resources of projects.
• Prepare Construction Schedule by using different methods.
• Know ISO 9000 Standards.
UNIT-I :
Fundamentals of construction Technology – Construction activities – process –
construction schedule – construction records – documents – quality – safety – codes
and regulations.
UNIT-II :
Construction method – earthwork – piling – concrete and concreting – formwork –
fabrication and erection - Mechanized construction – construction equipment –
equipment economics – excavators – Rollers – Dozers – Scrapers – Handling
equipment – concrete equipment – cranes – draglines and clamshalls
UNIT-III :
Quality control, Assurance and safety – ISO – 9000 – quality systems – principles on
safety – personnel, fire and electrical safety – environment protection – concept of
green building.
UNIT-IV :
Contract management – project estimation – types of estimation – contract document
– classification with specific reference to PPP and BOT Projects – bidding –
procurement process - Construction planning – project planning techniques – planning
of manpower, material, equipment and finance.
UNIT-V :
Project scheduling – PERT – CPM, Resource leveling - Construction claims, Dispute
and project closure – source of claim – claim management – Dispute Resolution –
Arbitration – Construction Closure – Contract Closure – Documentation.
170
TEXT BOOK
1. Construction Technology by Subir K.Sarkar, Subhajit Saraswati / Oxford
University Press
2. Construction Project Management – Theory and Practice, Niraj kumar jha,
Pearson Education
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Construction Planning Equipment and Methods by Peurifacy, Schexnayder,
Sharpira TMH
2. Project Planning and Control with PERT and CPM – B.C. Punmia,
K.K.Khandelwala – Laxmi Publication.
3. FIDIC Contract Conditions.
171
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective- III 3 1 3
(13CED041) PRINCIPLES OF WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Develop an understanding water management Concepts
• Develop an understanding of water requirements for various uses
• Develop an understanding of treatment of water
• Develop an understanding of miscellaneous water treatment methods
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be
able to
• Acquire the knowledge of Quality of water
• Acquire the knowledge of Treatment of water
• Acquire the knowledge of Design of water Treatment Plant
• Acquire the knowledge of Miscellaneous treatment methods
UNIT – I
Introduction
Water Demand - Domestic, Institutional, Industrial & fire Fighting demand. Estimating
per capita water demand. Quality of water and drinking water standards.
UNIT – II
Water Sources
Rainfall and runoff – Measurement of precipitation and runoff, Rainfall intensity-
duration- frequency relationship. Groundwater – Formation of ground water, Infiltration
galleries, yield of wells. Surface Sources – Catchment area, Reservoir sites, yield of
surface sources.
UNIT –III
Qualities of water supplies
Impurities of water, Examination of water – Collection of samples, Standard tests,
Classification of tests, Biological examination of water.
UNIT – IV
Treatment of water
layout of water treatment plant, Sedimentation – Sedimentation tank, sedimentation
aided with coagulation. Filtration – Theory of filtration, types of filters, comparison of
slow sand and rapid gravity filters. Disinfection – Theory of disinfection by chlorine,
different chlorination methods.
172
UNIT – V
Miscellaneous treatment methods: Water softening, Aeration, Fluoridation,
Desalting, Radio Isotope removal.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Principles of Water Quality Management by W. Eckenfelder publisher
Springer Netherlands
2. Principles of Water Quality control by T.H.Y. Tebbutt publisher butterworth
Heinemann publications
3. Principles of Water Quality by Thomas Waite publisher Elsevier.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Water Quality Management: Present Situations, Challenges and Future
Perspectives by Asit K. Biswas, Cecilia Tortajada, Rafael Izquierdo
publisher Routledge
2. Manual on Water Supply and Treatment, (latest Ed.), Ministry of Works &
Housing, New Delhi.
3. Water Pollution Control: A Guide to the Use of Water Quality Management
by Richard Helmer, Ivanildo Hespanhol publisher CRCBottom of Form
173
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-III 3 1 3
(13CED042) ADVANCED STRUCTURAL DESIGN
Course objectives
• To understand the basic concepts of design of combined footings and
Retaining walls
• To Equip them to select the suitable types of water tanks
• 3. To make them understand the design considerations of Concrete bridges
under different loading classes.
• Familiarity with professional and contemporary design issues
Course outcomes
At the end of the course student will be able to
• Ability to design the Retaining walls
• Ability to Design the RCC water tanks and staircases
• Appreciate the advantage of selecting the suitable bridges for certain
applications.
• Ability to design gantry girders and steel bridges under different loading
considerations
UNIT – I
Design of combined footings, Design of cantilever retaining wall, Design of counter fort
retaining wall
UNIT – II
Design of staircases, Design of RCC water tanks - Circular and Rectangular types.
UNIT – III
Design of Concrete bridges - IRC loading, Design of slab bridge and T - beam bridge.
UNIT – IV
Design of Steel gantry girders
UNIT – V
Design of steel bridges – loadings – design of plate girder bridges.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Advanced Reinforced concrete structures by Varghese, PHI, New Delhi.
2. Design & Drawing of concrete and steel structures by N.Krishna Raju
University Press
3. Reinforced concrete structures Vol-2 by by B.C.Punmia, Ashok Kumar Jain
and Arun Kumar Jain, Laxmi, publications Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi
174
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Essentials of Bridge Engineering by D.John son Victor, Oxford and IBM
publication Co., Pvt. Ltd.
2. Reinforced concrete design by S.U,Pillai and D.Menon, TMH, New Delhi.
3. Advanced structural design BY Cyril S. Benson, Batsford publishers
Note: Question paper pattern for Final Examination:
The end examination paper should consist of Part-A and Part-B. Part-A consists
of two questions in Design and Drawing out of which one question is to be
answered for 25 marks. Part-B consists of Five questions on design out of which
three are to be answered for 45 marks(15 x 3).
175
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-III 3 1 3
(13CED043) TRAFFIC ENGINEERING
Course Objectives
• Perform maintenance operations for traffic signals and signal systems under
County jurisdiction.
• Perform essential operations to fabricate, install and maintain roadway signs
and pavement marking.
• Conduct safety and traffic operations studies to reduce frequency and
severity of crashes and improve mobility.
• Perform parking studies for carrying analysis and improvement of parking
characteristics.
Course Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, students should be able
• To understand the human factors in traffic engineering design.
• To design the cross-section and alignment of highway
• To use an appropriate traffic flow theory for traffic characteristics
• To practice the traffic count methods for estimation of capacity at signalized
intersection
UNIT-I
Traffic characteristics
Basic characteristics of Traffic- Volume, Speed and Density- Relationship among
Traffic parameters.
Traffic measurement
Traffic Volume Studies-Objectives- Types of Volume Studies –Concept of PCU- Data
Collection and Presentation – Speed Studies – Types of Speeds- Objectives of Speed
Studies- Methods of Conducting speed studies- Data collection and Presentation-
Statistical Methods for Analysis of Speed Data.
UNIT-II
Highway capacity
Definition of Capacity – Importance of capacity – Factors affecting Capacity- Concept
of Level of Service- Different Levels of Service- Concept of Service Volume- Peak
Hour Factor.
176
UNIT - III
Parking Studies
Types of parking facilities – On-street and Off Street Parking Facilities- Parking
Studies- Parking Inventory. Study – Parking Survey by Patrolling Method- Analysis of
Parking Data and parking characteristics- Multi Story Car Parking Facility-Design
standards.
UNIT –IV
Traffic control & regulation
Traffic Problems in Urban areas- Importance of Traffic Control and regulation- Traffic
Regulatory Measures- Channelization- Traffic Signals- Saturation Flow - Signal Design
by Webster Method – Signal Phasing and Timing Diagrams.
Traffic & environment
Detrimental effect of traffic on environment – Air Pollution – Pollutants due to Traffic –
Measures to reduce Air Pollution due to Traffic- Noise Pollution – Measures to reduce
Noise Pollution.
UNIT -V
Traffic signs and road markings
Types of Traffic Signs- cautionary, Regulatory and Informative Signs- Specifications-
Pavement markings- Types of Markings – Lane markings and Object markings-
Standards and Specifications for Road Markings.
Highway safety
Problem of Highway Safety – Types of Road accidents- Causes – Engineering
Measures to reduce Accidents- Enforcement Measures – Educational Measures-
Road Safety Audit- Principles of Road Safety Audit.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Traffic Engineering and Transportation planning – LK kadiyali – Khanna
publishers.
2. Fundamentals of Transportation Engineering - C.S. Papacostas, Prentice
Hall (India).
3. Traffic and Highway Engineering, Nicholas J. Garber (Author), Lester A. Hoel
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Transportation Engineering – An Introduction – C. J. Khisty, Prentice Hall of
India
2. Principles of Transportation Engineering – Partha Chakroborthy, Animesh
Das – Prentice Hall of India.
3. Highway Engineering and Traffic Analysis-Mannering and Kilareski, John
wiley Publications.
177
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-IV 3 1 3
(13CED044) EARTHQUAKE RESISTANT DESIGN OF BUILDINGS
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Understand Engineering Seismology
• able to understand single degree of freedom systems subjected to free
and forced vibrations
• able to understand the principles of earthquake resistant design
• able to understand the importance of ductile detailing of RC structures
Course Outcomes
At the end of the course student will be able to
• Understand the causes of earthquakes, magnitude & intensity of
earthquakes
• Evaluate the displacement for free vabrations of SDOF systems
• Evaluate base shear using Seismic coefficient method and Response
Spectrum methods
• Detail the reinforcement as per ductility requirements
UNIT-I
Engineering seismology
Earthquake phenomenon-causes of earthquakes-Theories on earthquake causes-
Plate tectonics-Seismic waves -Magnitude and Intensity of earthquake-Energy
released-Earthquake measuring Instruments-Seismograph-Accelerograph-Seismic
zones of India
UNIT-II
Theory of Vibrations
Elements of vibrating system-Degrees of freedom-Continuous system-Lumped mass
idealization-Oscillatory motion-Free vibrations of Single degree of freedom system-
undamped, damped and critical damping-logarithmic decrement-Forced vibrations of
SDOF-Harmonic loading
178
UNIT-III
Conceptual design
Introduction to functional planning-Continuous load path-Overall form-simplicity and
symmetry-elongated shapes-stiffness and strength-Horizontal and vertical members-
Twisting of buildings-flexible buildings-framing systems-unconfined concrete and
confined concrete-reinforcing steel-lateral load resisting systems- irregularities in
buildings
UNIT-IV
Basic assumptions, principles in earthquake resistant designs-permissible stresses-
Seismic methods of analysis based on IS:1893-Equivalent lateral force method-
Dynamic analysis-Response spectrum method, Time history method
UNIT-V
Ductility considerations in earthquake resistant design of RC buildings-Impact of
ductility-requirements for ductility-Assesment of ductility-Factors affecting ductility-
Ductile detailing considerations as per IS:13920-Behaviour of beams, columns and
joints in RC buildings during earthquake-Vulnerability of Open ground storey and short
columns during earthquakes
TEXT BOOKS
1. Earthquake Resistant Design of Structures - S.K.Duggal, Oxford University
Press.
2. Earthquake Resistant Design of Structures-Pankaj Agarwal and Manish
Shrikhande, Prentice Hall of India Pvt. Ltd.
3. Dynamics of structures : Theory and Applications to Earthquake Engineering by
A.K. Chopra, Prentice Hall of India Pvt. Ltd.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Earthquake Tips- Learning Earthquake Design and Construction-C.V.R.Murthy
2. Structural Dynamics by Clough & Penzien – Tata Mcgrawhill Publishers.
3. Seismic Design of Reinforced Concrete and Masonry buildings-T.Paulay and
M.J.N Pristly, John Wiley & Sons.
CODE BOOKS
1. IS:1893 (Part-1)-2002, “Criteria for Earthquake Resistant Design of structures”,
B.I.S., New Delhi.
2. IS:13920-1993, “Ductile detailing of Concrete structures subjected to seismic
force”-guidelines,B.I.S. New Delhi.
3. IS:4326-1993, “Earthquake Resistant Design and Construction of Buildings“
Code of Practice – BIS, New Delhi.
179
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective- IV 3 1 3
(13CED045) WATER RESOURCES PLANNING & MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives
• To impart to the students the concepts of Water Resource Planning and
Management.
• To enable the students to understand different types of Optimization
Techniques
• To enable the students to solve analytical problems
• To enable the students to do optimal allocation of water resources
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be
able to
• Do Linear and Dynamic Programming
• Use non linear optimization models
• Perform benefit cost calculation for Projects
• Allocate water resources based on scientific criterion
UNIT-I
Introduction
Concepts of systems analysis, definition, systems approach to water resources
planning and management, role of optimization models objective function and
constraints, types of optimization techniques.
Linear Programming - I
Formulation linear programming models, graphical method, simplex method,
application of Linear programming in water resources.
UNIT-II
Linear Programming - II
Revised simplex method, duality in linear programming, sensitivity and past optimality
analysis.
UNIT-III
Dynamics programming
Belman’s of principles of optimality forward and backward recursive dynamic
programming, case of dimensionality, application of dynamic for resource allocation.
180
UNIT-IV
Non-linear Optimization Techniques
Clerical of method optimization, Kuch-Tucleer, gradient based research techniques
for simple unconstrained optimization.
Simulation : Application of simulation techniques in water resources.
UNIT-V
Water- resources economics
Principles of Economics analysis, benefit cost analysis socio economic intutional and
pricing of water resources.
Water resources management
Planning of reservoir system, optimal operation of single reservoir system, allocation of
water resources, optimal cropping pattern, conjunctive use of surface and sub-surface
water resources.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Water Resources System Analysis-Vedula & Mujumdar – Tata Mc.Graw-Hill
Company Ltd.2005.
2. Water Resources Economics – James & Lee. Oxford Publishers 2005.
3. Water Resources Systems Planning and Management - Daniel P. Loucks
and Eelco van Beek, Prentice Hall
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Optimal design of water distribution networks P.R.Bhave, Narosa Publishing
house 2003.
2. Water Resources Planning and Management, R. Quentin Grafton, Karen
Hussey, Cambridge University Press
3. Water Resources Systems Planning and Management, S. K. Jain and
V. P. Singh, Elsevier publications.
181
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE - II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective- IV 3 1 3
(13CED046) GEOSPATIAL TECHNOLOGY & APPLICATIONS
Course Objectives
• To enable the students to understand different types of datum’s and
coordinates systems.
• To enable the students to understand different types of applications like
environment ,social and commercial applications
• GIS is software which can be used for collecting, storing and analyzing of
data which is useful for real world applications.
• To enable the students to understand how GIS can be used to address the
problems and develop solutions in everyday problems.
Course Outcomes
• Use different types of projections and datum’s for spatial data base
generation.
• Student able to classify the different types of disasters so management of
disasters is very easy.
• By Using GIS, the student can develop knowledge on using the analytical
hierarchy process, which considers several factors for bringing out the best
solution in a effective manner.
• By GIS the student can communicate to the common man his analysis of
different problems developments, benefits by preparing different thematic
maps.
UNIT -I
Introduction
Geospatial data, Spatial data infrastructure, three important geospatial technologies,
Spatial elements. Datums &Geodetic Systems-Geodetic datums, Geodetic reference
system
UNIT-II
Coordinates & coordinate systems
Coordinates and coordinate systems, Datums and geodetic systems, Coordinate
transformations. Basic electromagnetic radiation.
UNIT-III
Overview of GST applications
GST for Environmental, Social, Local Government and Commercial applications.
182
UNIT-IV
Municipal & urban GIS
GST for Urban Environmental Monitoring. GST for Municipal Administration.
Geomatics in Solid and Hazardous waste disposal site selection, Environmental
Information System Development for municipalities: Case studies GST for Traffic and
Transportation planning Assessment
UNIT-V
Disaster management
Introduction and Overview- Natural and manmade hazards – Vulnerability assessment
and Mapping on Disasters- Spatial Information for natural Hazard and risk assessment
–Land slides- volcanoes- floods and famines- earth quakes- Drought hazard and risk
assessment- Human Induced disasters- industrial disasters- dams- constructional and
others.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Manual of Geospatial Science and Technology Edited By John. D. Bossler,
Taylor And Francis, London
2. Fundamentals of GIS by MICHAEL N DEMERS. Published By john Wiley &
Sons Inc.
3. Environmental Modeling with GIS, Michael F. Goodchild, Bradley O. Parks,
Louis T. Stewart
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Environmental Modeling with GIS, Michael F. Goodchild, Bradley O. Parks,
Louis T. Stewart
2. Geographic Information Systems: A Management Perspective by Stan
Arnoff.
3. Geographical Information Sysytems by Demmeers
183
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-IV 3 1 3
(13CED047) AIR POLLUTION & CONTROL
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Develop an understanding of Air pollution Concepts
• Develop an understanding of Effects of air pollution
• Develop an understanding of Air pollution Control devices
• Develop an understanding of Air quality monitoring devices
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students
should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge of Air pollution Concepts
• Acquire the knowledge of Effects of air pollution
• Acquire the knowledge of Air pollution Control devices
• Acquire the knowledge of Air quality monitoring devices
UNIT – I
Air Pollution and its definition – Factors influencing air pollution – Classification of
pollutants particulates – Gases-Sources of pollution – Air qualities standards – effects
– Location of Industries.
UNIT – II
Meteorology – Wind roses – lapses rates – mixing depth atmospheric dispersion –
plume behavior accumulation, estimation of pollutants – Effective stack height.
UNIT – III
Air Pollution effects on human beings, animals, plants and materials ,global
conditions– Air Pollution Episodes in India and abroad.
UNIT – IV
Control of air pollution – Removal of pollutants – particulate and gaseous – Air
pollution control equipments (units) such as setting chamber, cyclones, wet
scrubbers/collectors, scrubbers, centrifugal scrubbers spary towers, packed beds,
electrostatic precipitators, after burners-absorption – adsorption – Diffusion.
UNIT – V
Ambient air quality monitoring and stack monitoring. General methods of control of
NO,SO emissions-in plant measures, wet and dry methods of removal and recycling.
184
TEXT BOOKS
1. Air Pollution Control Technology by T. Painter.
2. Elements of Air Pollution Control by Prof. T. Shivaji Rao.
3. Air Pollution and Health by T. Holgate, Hillel S. Koren, Jonathan M. Samet,
Robert L. Maynard publisher Academic Press.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Air Pollution Control by K.V.S.G. Murali Krishna.
2. Air Pollution Control by M.N.Rao.
3. Fundamentals of Air Pollution by Dr. B.S.N. Raju, Oxford & I.B.H.
185
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-IV 3 1 3
(13CED048) GROUND IMPROVEMENT TECHNIQUES
Course Objectives
•
Student will be able to learn and understand various ground improvement
technique.
•
Student will be able to learn various method of compaction for ground
improvement in it strength.
•
Student will be able to learn various physical and chemical modification for
ground improvement
•
Student will be able to learn the method to choose the foundation and or
treatment method based on the site condition.
Course Outcomes
•
Student will be able to select the ground improvement technique which is
suitable and economical for soil strengthening.
•
Student will able to select different techniques based on the various types
of soils in-situ.
•
Student will able to design reinforced earth structures.
•
Student will be exposed to the knowledge on use of geosynthetic material
UNIT – I
In-situ densification methods in granular soils, Vibration at the ground surface, Impact
at the Ground surface, Vibration at depth, Impact at depth. In-situ densification
methods in Cohesive soils, Preloading, Dewatering, Drain wells, Sand drains,
Sandwich geodrains, Stone columns, Lime columns, Thermal methods.
UNIT – II
Reinforced earth principles, Components of reinforced earth walls, Factors governing
design of reinforced earth walls, Design principles of reinforced earth walls.
UNIT – III
Geotextiles: Introduction, Type of geotextiles, Function and their application, tests for
geotextile materials, Geogrids, Functions of geogrids. Expansive soils, Problems in
Expansive soils, Mechanisim of swelling, swell pressure, swell potential, Heave, Tests
for identification, I. S. Test Methods of determination of swell pressure, Foundation
techniques in Expansive soils.
UNIT – IV
Mechanical stabilization: Soil aggregate mixtures, Properties and proportioning
techniques, soft aggregate stabilization, compaction, Field compaction control.
186
Cement stabilization: Mechanisim-Factors affecting and properties, Uses of additives,
Design of soil-cement mixtures, Construction techniques.
UNIT – V
Lime and Bituminous stabilization: Types of admixtures, Mechanisim, Factors
affecting, Design of mixtures, Construction methods.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Ground Improvement Techniques- Dr. G.V.R. Purshotham Raj
2. Designing with Geosynthetics- Robert M. Koerner
3. Soil Mechanics & Foundation Engineering Vol. II by V.N.S. Murthy, Saikripa
Technical consultants, Bangalore.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Foundation Analysis and Design by Joseph E. Bowles; McGraw – Hill
International Book Company
2. Basic and Applied Soil Mechanics by Gopal Ranjan, A.S.R. Rao, New age
Publications.
3. Foundation Engineering by Braja M. Das.
187
