SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/R13/R13IT.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
Information Technology
B.TECH. FOUR YEAR DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2013-2014)
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous Institute
Approved by AICTE & Affiliated to JNTUH
Accredited by NBA and NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
Bachupally, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500090, Telangana State, India
Phone: 040-23042758/59/60; FAX: 040-23042761
E-Mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
1
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
Approved by AICTE & Affiliated to JNTUH
Accredited by NBA and NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS FOR B.TECH. DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for Students admitted from the academic year 2013-2014)
1. Courses of study
The following courses of study are offered at present for specialization for the B.
Tech. Course:
Branch
Branch
Code
01 Civil Engineering.
02 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
03 Mechanical Engineering
04 Electronics and Communication Engineering
05 Computer Science and Engineering.
10 Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
12 Information Technology
24 Automobile Engineering
1.1 Eligibility Criteria for Admission
• The eligibility criteria for admission into engineering programmes shall be as
mentioned below:
• The candidate shall be an Indian National / NRI
• The candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st December
of the academic year for which the admissions are being conducted.
• The Candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or
equivalent as on the date of admission
2
1.1 .1 Seats in each programme in the Institution are classified into Category A and
Category B as per the G.Os.
a) Category – A Seats
These seats will be filled through counseling as per the rank at the Common
Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by the State Government and as per
other admission criteria laid down in the G.Os.
1.1.2 Category - B Seats
These seats will be filled by the institute as per the G.Os Issued by State
Government from time to time.
1.1.3 Category: Lateral Entry
The candidate shall be admitted into the Third Semester, (2nd year, Ist
Semester) based on the rank secured by the candidate at Engineering
Common Entrance Test (ECET (FDH)) by the Convener, ECET.
2. Distribution and Weightage of Marks
i. The performance of a student in each Semester shall be evaluated subject –
wise with a maximum of 100 marks for theory and 100 marks for
practical subjects. In addition, an Industry oriented mini-project, Seminar,
Comprehensive viva-voce, and Project Work shall be evaluated for 100, 100,
100 and 200 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects the distribution shall be 30 marks for Mid Semester
Evaluation and 70 marks for the End Semester Examination.
For theory subjects, two mid examinations will be conducted in each
Semester as per the academic calendar. Each mid examination is evaluated
for 25 marks.
For the Mid-Examination the Distribution of Marks (25 Marks) as follows
Part-A: - 4 Marks (4X1 Marks) Compulsory
6 Marks (3X2 Marks) Compulsory
Part-B:- 15 Marks (3X5 Marks) 3 out of 4 Questions
Assignment Test/Assignment: - Two assignments are to be given to
students covering the syllabus of First Mid and Second Mid Examinations
respectively and are evaluated for 5 marks each.
The first assignment shall be submitted after first mid examinations and
second Assignment should be submitted after second mid examination.
At the end of the Semester, Internal Marks (Maximum 30) for the respective
subject is assigned as follows:
(a) 25 marks: 80% from the best performed mid examination and 20% from
the other mid examination.
(b) 5 marks: Average of the two assignments/assignment tests
3
iii. For practical subjects there shall be a continuous evaluation during the
Semester for 30 marks and 70 marks for end examination. Out of the 30
marks, day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be evaluated for 10
marks, and 10 marks for practical examination and 10 marks for laboratory
record.
NOTE: A. Student who is absent for any assignment/Mid-term examination for
any reason what so ever shall be deemed to have secured ‘zero’ marks
in the test/examination and no makeup test/examination shall be
conducted.
B. If any student absent for mid exam due to Medical/Acute illness
same may be reported in advance to Head of the Department in writing
with a request to reconduct the mid-term examination. The committee
consisting of HOD/Dean-Academics/Dean-Examinations will take the
final decision on the conduct of mid-term examination.
iv For the subjects having design and / or drawing, (such as Engineering
Graphics, Engineering Drawing, Machine Drawing, Production Drawing
Practice, and Estimation etc.,) the distribution shall be 30 marks for internal
evaluation (15 marks for day-to-day work and 15 marks for Mid
examination (the average of the two examinations will be taken into account)
and 70 marks for end semester examination.
V There shall be an industry-oriented mini-Project, in collaboration with an
industry of their specialization, to be taken up during the summer vacation
after III year II Semester examination. The industry oriented mini project
shall be evaluated during the IV year I Semester. The industry oriented
mini project shall be submitted in report form and should be presented before
a committee, which shall be evaluated for 100 marks. The committee
consists of Head of the Department, the supervisor of mini project and a
senior faculty member of the department. There shall be no mid-term
assessment for industry oriented mini project. However, attending the
shadow engineering program is a pre – requisite for evaluating industry
– oriented mini project. Students should submit a report on learning
outcomes of the shadow engineering and Engineer in Mirror. Every student
should attend shadow engineering and Engineer in Mirror programme in an
industry for not more than a week days during second year and third year
respectively.
vi. There shall be a Seminar presentation in IV year II Semester. For the
Seminar, the student shall collect the information on a specialized topic other
than the project topic and prepare a technical report, showing his
understanding of the topic, and submit to the department, which shall be
4
evaluated by a Departmental committee consisting of the Head of the
department, Seminar supervisor and a senior faculty member. The seminar
will be evaluated for 100 marks based on the report and presentation
made.
vii. There shall be a Comprehensive Viva-Voce in IV year II Semester. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce will be conducted by a Committee consisting of
the Head of the Department and three Senior Faculty members of the
Department after submitting M.T.P record in complete. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce is aimed to assess the student’s understanding in
various subjects studied during the B.Tech course of study. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce is evaluated for 100 marks by the Committee.
There will be no Midterm assessment for the Comprehensive viva-voce.
viii. The Project work shall be started by the student in the beginning of the IV
year I Semester. Out of a total of 200 marks for the project work, 60 marks
shall be for Midterm Evaluation and 140 marks for the Semester end
Examination. The viva-voce shall be conducted by a committee comprising
of an external examiner, Head of the Department and the project supervisor
and one senior faculty. The evaluation of project work shall be conducted at
the end of the IV year II Semester. The Midterm Evaluation shall be on
the basis of three Seminars conducted during the IV year II Semester for
30 marks by the committee consisting of Head of the Department,
project supervisor and senior faculty member of the Department and for
30 marks by the supervisor of the project.
3. Semester end Examination
(a) Theory Courses
Each course is evaluated for 70 marks. Examination is of 3 hours duration.
Question Paper Pattern is as follows
Part A:- 30 Marks Compulsory
5X1Marks (One question from each unit)
5X2Marks (One question from each unit)
5X3Marks (One question from each unit)
Part B:- 40 Marks (4 out of 6 questions) (At least one question from
each unit)
(b) Practical Courses
Each lab course is evaluated for 70 marks. The examination shall be
conducted by the laboratory teacher and another senior teacher concerned
with the subject of the same/other department/Industry. One of examiner will
be appointed by the Controller of Examinations in consultation with HOD as
and when required and is evaluated as per standard format.
5
(c) Supplementary Examinations
Supplementary Examinations will be conducted for the current semester after
the declaration of the results of the regular examination of that semester.
4. Attendance Requirements
i. A student shall be eligible to appear for the Semester end examinations if he
/ she acquire a minimum of 75% of attendance in aggregate of all the
subjects for Semester.
ii. Condonation of shortage of attendance in aggregate up to 10% (65% and
above and below 75%) in a semester may be granted by Institute
Academic Committee.
iii. A student will not be permitted to write the end examination and not promoted
to the next Semester unless he satisfies the attendance requirement of the
present Semester, as applicable. He may seek re-admission for that
Semester when offered next.
iv. Shortage of Attendance below 65% in aggregate shall in NO case be
condoned.
v. Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned / not paid the
stipulated fee in any Semester are not eligible to take their end semester
examination of that Semester.
5. Minimum Academic Requirements
The following academic requirements have to be satisfied in addition to the
attendance requirements mentioned in item No.4.
i. A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic
requirements and earned the credits allotted to each theory or practical
design or drawing subject or project, if he secures not less than 35% (25 out
of 70 marks) of marks in the end examination and a minimum of 40% of
marks in the sum total of the Midterm evaluation and end semester
examination taken together.
ii. A student shall be promoted from II to III year only if he fulfills the academic
requirement of getting 50 credits from the examinations held upto II Year
II Semester including Supplementary examinations of II B.Tech II
Semester.
iii. A student shall be promoted from III year to IV year only if he fulfills the
academic requirement of getting a total of 75 credits from the
examinations held upto III Year II Semester including Supplementary
examinations of III B.Tech II Semester .
Iv. A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 200
credits and earn atleast 192 credits. Marks obtained in these credits shall be
6
considered for the calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA)
and percentage of marks.
v. The student should obtain two certificate courses during his/her course of
study
vi. Students who fail to earn atleast 192 credits as indicated in the course
structure within eight academic years from the year of their admission
shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech. Course and their admission stand
Cancelled.
6. Course pattern
i. The entire course of study is of four academic years. All I, II, III and IV years
are of Semester pattern.
ii. A student eligible to appear for the end semester examination in a subject,
but absent or has failed in the end semester examination may reappear for
that subject at the supplementary examination whenever conducted.
iii. When a student is detained due to shortage of attendance in any Semester,
he may be re-admitted into that Semester when it is offered next, with the
academic regulations of the batch into which he gets readmitted.
iv. When a student is detained due to lack of credits in any year, he may be
eligible for promotion to the next year after obtaining required number of
credits and fulfillment of the academic requirements.
Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
A student will be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. Degree if
he/she fulfils the following academic regulations:
i) Pursued a course of study for not less than four academic years and not
more than eight academic years.
ii) Registered for 200 credits and secured a minimum of 192 credits with
compulsory subjects as listed in Table.
Table: Compulsory Subjects
Serial Number Subject Particulars
1. All Practical Subjects
2. Industry oriented mini project
3. Comprehensive Viva-Voce
4. Seminar
5. Project work
iii) The student should obtain two certificate courses during his/her course of
study
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award of
the degree within eight academic years from the year of their admission,
shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech. Course.
7
7. CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points:
The absolute grading method is followed, based on the total marks obtained
in internal and external examinations. Grades and grade points are assigned as
per the Table given below
B.Tech Program: The Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the total
marks obtained in internal and external examinations. Grades and Grade points
are assigned as given below
Marks Obtained Grade Description Grade Points(GP)
of Grade Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A+ Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 A Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 B Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 C Fair 6.00
>=40 and <49.99 D Pass 5.00
<40 F Remedial
Not Appeared the N Absent
Exam(s)
The student is eligible for the award of the B.Tech degree with the class
as mentioned in the Table.
CGPA CLASS
>= 7.5 First Class with Distinction
>= 6.5 and <7.5 First class
>= 5.5 and < 6.5 Second Class
>=5.0 and < 5.5 Pass class
Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
The performance of each student at the end of the each semester is indicated
in terms of SGPA. The SGPA is calculated as below:
8
Where ‘Ci’ = Number of Credits allotted to particular subject ‘I’
‘Gi’ = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded in that subject ‘i”
‘i”= 1,2,…..P represent the number of subjects for that particular semester
* SGPA is calculated and awarded for the candidates who pass all the courses in
a semester.
Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) for Entire Programme.
The CGPA is calculated as below:
Assessment of the overall performance of a student is obtained by calculating
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA), which is weighted average of the grade
points obtained in all subjects during the course of study.
Where Ci= Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘I”
Gi = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded in that subject ‘i”
I= 1,2,….m represent the number of subjects of the entire program.
Grade lower than D in any subject is not considered for CGPA calculation. The CGPA
is awarded only when the student acquires the required number of credits prescribed
for the program.
Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
e) Award list indicating the marks awarded to the student.
8. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to College, or if any case of indiscipline is
pending against him, the result of the candidate may be withheld. The award or
issue of the Degree may also be withheld in such cases.
9. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance
or any other academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and
when they become eligible. They have to take up Equivalent subjects, as
substitute subject in place of repetition of subjects as decided by the BoS
chairman of the respective department. He/She will be admitted under the
regulation of the batch in which he/she is readmitted.
9
10. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each Semester shall be 90 instruction days.
11. There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission process.
12. The decision of the Institute Academic Committee will be final in respect
of equivalent subjects for those students who are transferred from other
colleges. The transfer of students from other college or from this institute
is to approved by the Governing Council.
13. General
i. Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include “she”,
“her”, “hers”.
ii. The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
iii. In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arises in the above rules and
regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
iv. The Chairmen Academic Council may change or amend any or all of the
academic regulations or syllabi at any time and the changes or amendments
made shall be applicable to all the students concerned with effect from the
dates notified by the College.
14. Academic Regulations for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2013-2014)
(i) Registered for 150 credits and secured a minimum of 142 credits with
compulsory subjects as listed in table.
Table: Compulsory Subjects
Serial Number Subject Particulars
1. All Practical Subjects
2. Industry oriented mini project
3. Comprehensive Viva-Voce
4. Seminar
5. Project work
(ii) A student who fails to earn a minimum of 142 credits as indicated in the course
structure within six academic years from the year of their admission shall forfeit
their seat in B.Tech. programme and their admission stands cancelled.
(iii) The same attendance regulations are adopted as that of B.Tech. Four year
degree course.
(iv) A student shall be promoted from Third year to Fourth year only on fulfilling the
academic requirements of securing 50 credits from the examinations held upto
III B.Tech II Semester including Supplementary Examinations.
10
(v) All other regulations as applicable to B.Tech. four year degree course will hold
good for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme).
15. Malpractice Rules
Disciplinary Action for Malpractices/Improper Conduct in Examinations
Nature of Malpractices/Improper Punishment
conduct
If the candidate:
1. (a) Possesses or keeps accessible Expulsion from the examination hall and
in examination hall, any paper, note cancellation of the performance in that
book, programmable calculators, subject only.
Cell phones, pager, palm
computers or any other form of
material concerned with or related
to the subject of the examination
(theory or practical) in which he is
appearing but has not made use of
(material shall include any marks
on the body of the candidate which
can be used as an aid in the
subject of the examination)
(b)Gives assistance or guidance or Expulsion from the examination hall and
receives it from any other candidate cancellation of the performance in that
orally or by any other body subject only of all the candidates involved.
language methods or In case of an outsider, he will be handed
communicates through cell phones over to the police and a case is registered
with any candidate or persons in or against him.
outside the exam hall in respect of
any matter.
2. Has copied in the examination hall Expulsion from the examination hall and
from any paper, book, cancellation of the performance in that
programmable calculators, palm subject and all other subjects the
computers or any other form of candidate has already appeared including
material relevant to the subject of practical examinations and project work
the examination (theory or and shall not be permitted to appear for
practical) in which the candidate is the remaining examinations of the subjects
appearing. of that Semester/year.
The Hall Ticket of the candidate is to be
cancelled.
11
3. Impersonates any other candidate The candidate who has impersonated shall
in connection with the examination. be expelled from examination hall. The
candidate is also debarred and forfeits the
seat. The performance of the original
candidate who has been impersonated,
shall be cancelled in all the subjects of the
examination (including practicals and
project work) already appeared and shall
not be allowed to appear for examinations
of the remaining subjects of that
semester/year. The candidate is also
debarred for two consecutive semesters
from class work and all end semester
examinations. The continuation of the
course by the candidate is subject to the
academic regulations in connection with
forfeiture of seat. If the imposter is an
outsider, he will be handed over to the
police and a case is registered against
him.
4. Smuggles the Answer book or Expulsion from the examination hall and
additional sheet or takes out or cancellation of performance in that subject
arranges to send out the question and all the other subjects the candidate
paper during the examination or has already appeared including practical
answer book or additional sheet, examinations and project work and shall
during or after the examination. not be permitted for the remaining
examinations of the subjects of that
semester/year. The candidate is also
debarred for two consecutive semesters
from class work and all end semester
examinations. The continuation of the
course by the candidate is subject to the
academic regulations in connection with
forfeiture of seat.
5. U s e s o b j e c t io n a b l e , a b u s i v e o r C a n c e l l a t i o n o f t h e performance in that
offensive language in the answer subject.
paper or in letters to the examiners
12
or writes to the examiner requesting
him to award pass marks.
6. Refuses to obey the orders of the In case of students of the college, they
Chief Superintendent/Assistant – shall be expelled from examination halls
Superintendent / any officer on duty and cancellation of their performance in
or misbehaves or creates that subject and all other subjects the
disturbance of any kind in and candidate(s) has (have) already appeared
around the examination hall or and shall not be permitted to appear for
organizes a walk out or instigates the remaining examinations of the subjects
others to walk out, or threatens the of that semester/year. The candidates are
officer-in charge or any person on also debarred and forfeit their seats. In
duty in or outside the examination case of outsiders, they will be handed over
hall of any injury to his person or to to the police and a police case is
any of his relations whether by registered against them.
words, either spoken or written or
by signs or by visible
representation, assaults the officer-
in-charge, or any person on duty in
or outside the examination hall or
any of his relations, or indulges in
any other act of misconduct or
mischief which result in damage to
or destruction of property in the
examination hall or any part of the
College campus or engages in any
other act which in the opinion of the
officer on duty amounts to use of
unfair means or misconduct or has
the tendency to disrupt the orderly
conduct of the examination.
7. Leaves the exam hall taking away Expulsion from the examination hall and
answer script or intentionally tears cancellation of performance in that subject
of the script or any part thereof and all the other subjects the candidate
inside or outside the examination has already appeared including practical
hall. examinations and project work and shall
not be permitted for the remaining
examinations of the subjects of that
semester/year. The candidate is also
debarred for two consecutive semesters
13
from class work and all end semester
examinations including supplementary
Examinations. The continuation of the
course by the candidate is subject to the
academic regulations in connection with
forfeiture of seat.
8. Possess any lethal weapon or Expulsion from the examination hall and
firearm in the examination hall. cancellation of the performance in that
subject and all other subjects the
candidate has already appeared including
practical examinations and project work
and shall not be permitted for the
remaining examinations of the subjects of
that semester/year. The candidate is also
debarred and forfeits the seat.
9. If student of the college, who is not If the student belongs to the college,
a candidate for the particular expulsion from the examination hall and
examination or any person not cancellation of the performance in that
connected with the college indulges subject and all other subjects the
in any malpractice or improper candidate has already appeared including
conduct mentioned in clause 6 to 8. practical examinations and project work
and shall not be permitted for the
remaining examinations of the subjects of
that semester/year. The candidate is also
debarred and forfeits the seat.
Person(s) who do not belong to the
College will be handed over to police and,
a police case will be registered against
them.
10. Comes in a drunken condition to Expulsion from the examination hall and
the examination hall. cancellation of the performance in that
subject and all other subjects the
candidate has already appeared including
practical examinations and project work
and shall not be permitted for the
remaining examinations of the subjects of
that semester/year.
11. Copying detected on the basis of Cancellation of the performance in that
internal evidence, such as, during subject and all other subjects the
14
valuation or during special scrutiny. candidate has appeared including practical
examinations and project work of that
semester/year.
12. If any malpractice is detected which
is not covered in the above clauses
1 to 11 shall be reported to the
academic council of the Institute for
further action to award suitable
punishment.
Malpractices identified by squad or special invigilators
Punishments to the candidates as per the above guidelines.
Malpractice identified at Spot center during valuation
The following procedure is to be followed in the case of malpractice cases detected
during valuation, scrutiny etc. at spot center.
1) Malpractice is detected at the spot valuation. The case is to be referred to the
malpractice committee. Malpractice committee will meet and discuss/question the
candidate and based on the evidences, the committee will recommend suitable
action on the candidate.
2) A notice is to be served to the candidate(s) involved through the Principal to his
address and to the candidate(s) permanent address regarding the malpractice and
seek explanations.
3) The involvement of staff who are in charge of conducting examinations,
invigilators valuing examination papers and preparing / keeping records of
documents relating to the examinations in such acts (inclusive of providing in
correct or misleading information) that infringe upon the course of natural justice to
one and all concerned at the examinations shall be viewed seriously and
recommended for award of appropriate punishment after thorough enquire.
4) Based on the explanation and recommendation of the committee action may be
initiated.
5) Malpractice committee:
i. Principal Chairman
ii. Controller of Examinations Convener
iii. Invigilator Member
iv. Chief Examiner of the subject/subject expert Member
v. Concerned Heads of the Department Member
15
Programme Educational Objectives (PEOs):
I. To provide students with a solid foundation in the scientific, mathematical, and
Engineering fundamentals necessary to formulate, analyze, solve engineering
problems.
II. To prepare students to meet the challenges in IT Industry regarding Analysis,
Design and Development of various types of Projects that meet the needs of
National and Global Companies, and also to prepare them for pursuing higher
studies and research.
III. To develop the understanding for specification, planning, designing,
implementation and deployment of software project by providing the sufficient
knowledge of Software Engineering, Unified Modeling, Cyber Security and
Information Retrieval Systems.
IV. Ability to enhance the analytical skills of the students with the faculty expertise by
bringing the real world into labs through a specially designed VNR protocol and
Learning by doing. And also enlarging the technological horizon of students
beyond curriculum through Seminars, Workshops, Shadow Engineering and
Mirror Engineering.
V. To organize special training programmes on modern IT skills to pursue
certification courses through Oracle, Java and Computer Network Certification.
VI. To train students with broader scientific and engineering knowledge by providing
multidisciplinary courses with emphasis on Digital, Microprocessor and embedded
systems, so as to achieve ability to comprehend, analyze, design and create novel
products with innovative ideas.
VII. To develop effective communication skills, managerial skills, team spirit, multi
disciplinary approach with social commitment and optimal utilization of resources
as an IT professional.
VIII. Ability to convert innovative ideas in to high end projects and to convert it into a
marketable product in collaboration with industry by providing with the sufficient
knowledge of Cloud Computing, Virtualization, and Web 2.0.
IX. IT Professional endeavors enable the graduate to meet the legal and ethical
responsibilities and to engage in life-long learning, to advance the economic and
social development at the National and global levels through technology transfer.
16
Program Outcomes:
The program demonstrates that the graduate is
a) Graduates will have an understanding of the fundamental mathematical, logical,
statistical, and scientific principles, emphasizing computing and information
processing.
b) An ability to identify and analyze the user needs and take them in to account for
Selection, Creation, Evaluation and Administration of Computer-based systems
like –Institute Management, Cart and Inventory Management.
c) The core competence in the field of IT addresses a wide range of strategic,
managerial and operational activities involved in gathering, processing, storing,
distributing and use of information, and its associated technologies like SE, OS,
WT, DBMS, CN and Security in developing applications for various organizations.
d) Graduate will demonstrate an ability to visualize and work on laboratory to
understand the performance of different types of projects.
e) Through VNR protocols, students are able to acquire in depth knowledge and can
apply this mode of inquiry in an application development like search engine.
f) Ability to acquire and apply fundamental principles of Basic Electrical Engineering,
microprocessor, microcontrollers and embedded Systems.
g) Ability to understand software engineering and Testing principles and apply them
to design, develop, implement and deploy with extensive security features.
h) Students to engage actively in research, consulting, and/or other professional
activities, both to advance individual professional competence and to integrate
new knowledge into the educational programs like Oracle Workforce Development
plan.
i) Develop a sense of personal responsibility and accountability for one's individual
actions and performance. Apply personal goal setting, decision making skills, and
time management concepts.
j) Work effectively in teams with people of diverse backgrounds at all corporate
levels.
k) Graduates able to develop "win-win" approaches for conflict resolution and assess
feasibility, Risk of the projects.
l) Students can apply information technology principles and practices to a variety of
problems, with the understanding of social, professional, and ethical issues related
to Computing, Networking and Security.
m) Ability to update his knowledge with the latest technologies by getting involved in
projects on distinct domains like cloud security.
n) Recognize the need for continued learning by participating and succeeding in
competitive examinations like GATE, GRE, CAT and also pursue research.
17
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
B. TECH Information Technology
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
13MTH001 Advanced Calculus 3 1 3
13PHY001 Engineering Physics 3 1 3
13CHE001 Engineering Chemistry 3 0 3
13ENG001 English 3 0 3
13CSE001 Computer Programming 4 0 4
13CED004 Environmental Studies
3 0 3
13MED103 IT & Engineering Workshop 0 3 2
13CSE101 Computer Programming 0 3 2
Laboratory
13EPC101 Engineering Physics & 0 3 2
Engineering Chemistry
Laboratory
Total 19 11 25
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
13MTH002 Linear Algebra & Ordinary 3 1 3
Differential Equations
13MTH003 Numerical Analysis and Linear 3 1 3
Programming
13PHY004 Applied Physics 3 0 3
13CSE032 Code of Ethics 4 0 4
13ITD002 Data Structures 4 0 4
13MED176 Engineering Drawing 2 4 4
13ITD102 Data Structures Laboratory 0 3 2
13ENG101 English Language 0 3 2
Communications Skills
Laboratory
Total 19 12 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
18
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
B. TECH Information Technology
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
13MTH007 Probability, Statistics and Queuing
3 1 3
Theory
13EEE078 Elements of Electrical &
3 1 3
Electronics Engineering
13CSE003 Digital Logic Design
3 1 3
13CSE002 Mathematical Foundations for 3 1 3
Computer Science
13CMS001 Business Economics and Financial
4 0 4
Analysis
13ITD003 Advanced Data Structures through
3 1 3
C++
13CSE102 Digital Logic Design Laboratory 0 3 2
13EEE178 Elements of Electrical & 0 3 2
Electronics Engineering
Laboratory
13ITD103 Advanced Data Structures through 0 3 2
C++ Laboratory
Total 19 14 25
19
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
B. TECH Information Technology
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
Formal Languages and Automata
13CSE004 4 0 4
Theory
13ECE082 Data Communication Systems 3 1 3
13ITD004 Computer Organization 3 1 3
13CSE006 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 1 3
13CSE005 Database Management Systems 3 1 3
13ITD005 JAVA Programming 3 1 3
Database Management Systems
13CSE103 0 3 2
Laboratory
Design and Analysis of Algorithms
13CSE104 0 3 2
Laboratory
13ITD104 JAVA Programming Laboratory 0 3 2
Total 19 14 25
20
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
B. TECH Information Technology
III YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
13CSE007 Software Engineering 3 1 3
13ITD010 Linux Programming 3 1 3
13ITD006 Computer Networks 4 0 4
13CSE009 Compiler Design 3 1 3
13CSE015 Computer Graphics & Animation 3 1 3
13ITD008 Operating Systems 3 1 3
13ITD106 Linux Programming and Compiler 0 3 2
Design Laboratory
13ENG102 Advanced English Language 2
0 3
Communication Skills Laboratory
13CSE105 Operating Systems & Computer 2
0 3
Networks Laboratory
Total 19 14 25
21
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
B. TECH Information Technology
III YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
13ITD009 Software Testing Methodologies
3 1 3
13CSE017 Data Warehousing and Mining
3 1 3
13CSE010 Principles of Programming
3 1 3
Languages
13CSE008 Object Oriented Analysis and
3 1 3
Design
13ECE084 Microprocessors and Interfacing 4 0 4
Open Elective
13ITD011 Green IT
13CED037 Disaster Management
13CSE016 Intellectual Property Rights 3 0 3
13EEE015 Renewable Energy Sources
13AED010 Modern Automobile Technologies
13ITD105 Object Oriented Analysis and
Design and Software Testing 0 3 2
Laboratory
13CSE108 Data Warehousing & Mining
0 3 2
Laboratory
13ECE178 Microprocessors and Interfacing 0 3 2
Laboratory
Total 19 13 25
22
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
B. TECH Information Technology
IV YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Subject Name Lecture T/P/D Credits
Code s
13ITD012 Web Technologies
4 0 4
13CMS002 Management Science 4 0 4
13ITD014 Mobile Application Development
4
using Android 4 1
Elective – I
13ITD013 Network Programming
13CSE023 Semantic Web and Social Networks
13CSE025 Bio-Informatics 3 0 3
13ITD016 Computer Forensics
13CSE026 Design Patterns
Elective – II
13ITD021 Cloud Computing
13CSE020 Building Enterprise Applications
13ITD020 Information Retrieval Systems
3 0 3
13CSE013 Cryptography and Network Security
13ITD019 Mobile Computing
13ITD108 Web Technologies Laboratory
0 3 2
13ITD107 Mobile Application Development
0 3 2
Laboratory
13ITD201 Industry Oriented Mini Project
0 4 2
Total 18 11 24
23
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
B. TECH Information Technology
(R13)
IV YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
13CSE024 Soft Computing 4 0 4
Elective – III
13CSE011 Advanced Computer Architecture
13ITD007 M-Commerce
13CSE021 Advanced Business Analytics 3 0 3
13ECE013 Digital Image Processing
13CSE018 Gaming Engineering
Elective – IV (Inter Departmental Elective)
13ITD017 Network Management Systems
13ECE023 Embedded Real Time Operating
Systems
3 0 3
13ECE081 VLSI System Design
13EIE081 Robotics
13CSE027 Multi Core Technologies
13ITD203 Technical Seminar 0 3 2
13ITD204 Comprehensive Viva-Voce 0 0 2
13ITD202 Project Work 0 18 12
Total 10 21 26
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
24
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech IT – I SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13MTH001) ADVANCED CALCULUS
Course prerequisites: Differentiation, integration
Course Objectives:
1. Understand the Taylor’s theorem and its application to maxima and minima of
f(x,y)
2. Understand the process of curve sketching
3. Understand the multiple integrals and its applications
4. Apply the integral theorems of vector calculus.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
1. Solve problems involving the maxima and minima of f(x,y).
2. Apply the curve tracing concepts to find arc length of curves, surface area,
volume of solids of revolution.
3. Evaluate the multiple integrals using appropriate change of variables.
4. Verify the integral theorems.
UNIT I CALCULUS OF ONE AND SEVERAL REAL VARIABLES
Mean value thoerems – Rolle’s Thoerem, Lagrange’s Mean value thoerem Cauchy’s
Mean value theorem , Taylor’s expansion and McLaurin’s expansion of functions
(without proofs).
Partial differentiation, partial derivatives of first and second order in terms of partial
derivaties, Jacobian, Euler’s theorem on homogeneous functions, change of variables,
Taylor’s theorem of two variables(without proof) and its application. Maxima and
Minima of two variables, Langrange’s method of undeterrmined multipliers.
UNIT II CURVE TRACING AND RELATED APPLICATIONS
Curvature of curves in Cartesian, parametric and polar coordinates. Tracing of curves
in Cartesian, parametric and polar coordinates (like conics, astroid, hypocycloid,
Folium of Descartes, Cycloid, Circle, Cardiode, Lemniscate). Applications -finding area
under the curves, Length of the curves, volume and surface area of solids of revolution
UNIT III MULTIPLE INTEGRALS
Introduction of Multiple integrals, evaluation of double and triple integrals, change of
order of integration change of variables, Cylindrical and Spherical polar coordinates.
Application to evaluation of plane areas, volumes and surface areas of solids of
revolution.
25
UNIT IV VECTOR DIFFERENTIAL CALCULUS
Scalar and Vector point functions, Gradient, Divergence, Curl with geometrical &
physical interpretation, Directional derivatives, Properties.
UNIT V VECTOR INTEGRAL CALCULUS
Line integrals and application to Work done and Circulation, Scalar potential function,
Surface integrals and Volume integrals, Gauss divergence theorem, Green’s theorem,
Stokes’ theorem (theorems without proof).
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – by B. S. Grewal,Khanna publishers
2. Calculus and Analytic Geometry by Thomas and Finney, 9th edition;
Publisher: Pearson Education.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Elementary Analysis: The Theory of Calculus by Kenneth Ross; Publisher:
Springer
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition; Publisher:
John Wiley.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter ‘O’ Neil, publisher: Cengage
Learning.
4. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa
Publications
26
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech IT– I SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13PHY001)ENGINEERING PHYSICS
Course Objectives:
1. To supplement and enhance the basic concepts in Physics essentially
required in the study of materials as well as interaction of light with matter,
interaction of light with matter through physical phenomena like interference,
diffraction and polarization.
2. To know and understand some important applications of lasers and optical
fibers.
3. To learn the importance of wave and particle nature of light and to
understand the behavior of an electron in one dimensional potential box.
4. To understand the effect of temperature on Fermi Dirac Distribution Function
and also learn the behavior of an electron in a periodic potential, the new
concept of Effective mass of an electron and to know the classification of
materials into conductors, semiconductors and insulators.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course, the students will be able to:
1. Understand the Phenomenon of Interference, Diffraction& Polarization.
2. Learn the principle, working, construction and energy mechanism of various
lasers and their applications Explain the light signal propagation and
attenuation through optical fiber.
3. Understand the differences between particle and wave nature, energy states
in one dimensional potential box and also the Consequences of Heisenberg’s
Uncertainty principle.
4. Understand the one dimensional Schrodinger’s wave equation and the effect
of temperature on Fermi-Dirac Distribution, Kronig Penny model.
UNIT-I: INTERFERENCE:
Superposition principle, resultant amplitude, coherence, methods to obtain coherent
sources, interference, Young’s double slit experiment, interference in thin films by
reflection, Newton’s rings Experiment
DIFFRACTION-I:
Distinguish between Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction, diffraction at single slit
(Qualitative and Quantitative (Phasors approach)).
27
UNIT-II: DIFFRACTION-II
Diffraction at double slit, circular aperture, and multiple slits (grating)( Qualitative
Approach), Resolution of spectral lines, Rayleigh criterion, and resolving power of
grating.
POLARIZATION
Polarization phenomenon, Brewster’s Law and Malus law, examples, types of
polarization, double refraction, Nicol prism, Quarter and Half wave plates
UNIT-III: LASERS:
Characteristics of Lasers – Spontaneous and Stimulated Emission of radiation, meta
stable state, population inversion, lasing action, Einstein’s coefficients and relation
between them –– Ruby Laser – Helium-Neon Laser –Semiconductor Laser –
Applications of lasers.
FIBER OPTICS:
Principle of optical fiber and properties – Acceptance angle and acceptance cone –
Numerical aperture –Types of fibers and refractive index profiles – Qualitative analysis
of attenuation in optical fibers –Application of optical fibers.
UNIT-IV: ELEMENTS OF STATISTICAL MECHANICS:
Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics (non-mathematical
treatment); Photon gas, Planck’s law of black body radiation; Deduction of Wien’s law
and Rayleigh-Jeans law from Plank’s law.
PRINCIPLES OF QUANTUM MECHANICS:
Waves and particles – De Broglie hypothesis - Matter waves - Davisson and Germer
experiment –Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle - Schrodinger Wave Equation – Wave
function and its Physical Significance - Particle in one dimensional potential box(wave
functions, probability densities and energy states).
UNIT-V: FREE ELECTRON FERMI GAS:
Energy levels in one dimension, Effect of temperature on the Fermi-Dirac distribution,
Free electron gas in three dimensions, electrical conductivity & Ohm’s law, Electrical
Resistivity of Metals (Qualitative).
BAND THEORY OF SOLIDS:
Electron in a periodic potential; Bloch Theorem; Kronig-Penney model (non-
mathematical treatment); Origin of energy band formation in solids; Classification of
materials into conductors, semiconductors & Insulators; and Concept of effective mass
of an electron.
28
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Physics vol.2, by Halliday, Resnick and Krane; John Wiley & Sons
2. Concepts of Modern physics by Arthur Beiser, McGraw Hill Inc.
3. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel : John Wiley & Sons
REFERENCES BOOKS:
1. Engineering Physics by R.K.Gaur and S.L.Gupta; Dhanpat Rai and Sons
2. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd.
3. Optics by Ghatak and Thyagarajan, Tata Mc Graw
4. Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
5. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
6. Introduction to Optical Communication by G. Keiser
7. Quantum Mechanics by Gupta Kumar Sharma
29
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I B.Tech CSE, IT – I SEM L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13CHE001) ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
Course Prerequisites: General Chemistry
Course Objectives:
1. Understand electrochemistry which deals with the utilization of electrical
energy of an external source for bringing about a physical or chemical
change.
2. Knowledge of “Corrosion engineering education” and Usage of polymers in
modern world as an integral part of every human’s life.
3. Knowledge of purification techniques and various applications of soft water in
industries.
4. Usage of nanomaterials as emerging scientific components with amazing
potential applications in various fields.
Course Outcomes:
1. Visualize the chemical applications of electricity.
2. Prevention of corrosion of metals and applications of polymers from domestic
articles to sophisticated scientific and medical instruments.
3. Benefits of treated water as source in steam generation and other fields like
production of steel, paper, textiles, atomic energy etc.
4. The applicability and greater efficiency of using a material at nanoscale in
different engineering fields.
UNIT I
Electrochemical cells and batteries
Conductance-factors effecting conductance, conductometric titrations; cells: types of
cells, cell representation, electrode potential; Standard electrode potential;
Electrochemical series; Nernst equation; Reference electrodes – hydrogen, calomel
electrode; Ion selective electrodes (glass electrode & flouride electrode); Numerical
problems.
Batteries
Primary and secondary cells (lead-acid cell; Ni-Cd cell; lithium cells); Applications of
batteries; Fuel cells – methanol – oxygen fuel cells, advantages of fuel cells; Solar cells
- principle, and applications.
UNIT II
Corrosion and its control
Introduction; Causes and effects of corrosion; Different types of corrosion; Theories of
corrosion – chemical, electrochemical corrosion (reactions); Factors affecting corrosion
30
– nature of metal (galvanic series; over voltage; purity of metal; nature of oxide film;
nature of corrosion product), and nature of environment (effect of temperature; effect
of pH; humidity; effect of oxidant).
Corrosion control methods – cathodic protection, sacrificial anode, and impressed
current cathode;
Surface coatings – methods of application on metals (hot dipping; galvanizing; tinning;
cladding; electroplating), and organic surface coatings (paints - constituents and
functions).
UNIT III
III a) Polymers
Introduction; Types of polymerization; Plastics - thermoplastic resins, and thermoset
resins; Compounding & fabrication of plastics; Preparation, properties, and engineering
applications of polyethylene, PVC, PS, Teflon, bakelite, nylon.
III b) Rubber
Natural rubber- processing, vulcanization; Elastomers (Buna-s; Butyl rubber; Thiokol
rubbers); Fiber reinforced plastics (FRP) and their applications.
UNIT IV
Water
Introduction; Hardness - causes, expression of hardness, units, types of hardness,
estimation of temporary & permanent hardness of water, and numerical problems;
Boiler troubles – scale & sludge formation, caustic embrittlement, corrosion, priming &
foaming; Softening of water (Internal & external treatment - lime soda, zeolite, ion
exchange process, and numerical problems); Reverse osmosis and Electro dialysis
(desalination processes).
UNIT V
Nanomaterials
Introduction; Preparation and applications of nanomaterials with special reference to
carbon nanotubes.
Insulators Classification of insulators; characteristics of thermal & electrical insulators
and their applications; Superconductors - YBa Cu O ; Applications of
2 3 7-x
superconductors.
31
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna
Cherukuri; Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain & Monica Jain, Publisher: Dhanpatrai
Publishing Company.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara & Mukkanti; Publisher:
S.Chand & Co.
2. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna
3. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya,
Sulochana Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
4. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi ,Cengage
Learning Publications.
32
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech-I SEM (Common to all Branches) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13ENG001) ENGLISH
Introduction
This is the age of information and communication technologies. Engineers and
technical professionals need to convey technical information in English for various
purposes.
Besides learning General English as an international language, engineering students
need to be equipped with adequate writing ability so that they can communicate
technical information clearly on at least a basic level. A good English writing proficiency
can be a contributing factor to professional recognition and career prospects. This
course teaches those writing strategies that scientists, engineers, and others will need
in order to write successfully on the job. It initiates the students into Technical Writing.
The purposes of technical writing are to inform and persuade. This program aims to
train students in writing clear, concise and effective English.
This Syllabus is therefore, a Pragmatic English Writing Program for engineering
students with intermediate proficiency. The program covers a syllabus outline and
instructional approaches on basic writing skills with particular reference to technical
writing.
Course Objectives:
1. To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for advanced writing and speaking.
2. To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns and grammatical
constructions required of in technical writing.
3. To acquaint the students with the writing process, beginning with paragraph writing.
This would prepare them for academic and workplace writing.
Course Outcomes:
1. Comprehend technical writing produced in the engineering profession
2. Understand the writing process and create logical paragraphs
3. Use infrastructural patterns in writing and speaking
Methodology
A Task-based, process oriented methodology will be used by the teachers to give a
practical orientation to the teaching of language. An inductive approach will be used to
demonstrate the use of language in context. This should enable the students to
internalize the language structures and vocabulary used in context. Students will be
exposed to numerous examples and ample practice will be given in the contextual use
of language structures.
33
Syllabus Outline
Unit I : Review of Grammar
i) Common Errors v) Use of Articles and Prepositions
ii) Subject-Verb Agreement vi) Conjunctions
iii) Adverbs vii) pronoun reference
iv) Transitional elements
Unit II : Prose 1
1. Heaven’s Gate by Pico Iyer
2. The Connoisseur by Nergis Dalal
Unit III Reading and Writing Skills
i) Reading Comprehension -- Skimmimg & Scanning
ii) Reading Comprehension -- Intensive Reading
iii) Reading Comprehension -- Critical Analysis
iv) Paragraph Writing
v) Letter Writing
vi) Memo Writing
Unit IV : Prose 2
1. The Cuddalore Experience by Anu George
2. The Odds Against Us by Satyajit Ray
Unit V : Advanced Writing Skills
1. Comparison and Contrast Pattern
2. Cause and Effect Pattern
3. Classification
4. Analogy
5. Problem-Solution Pattern
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Enjoying Every day English by A. Ramakrishna Rao
2. Effective Technical Communication by Ashraf Rizvi
3. Technical Writing Process and Product by Gerson Sharon J. and Steven
Gerson. 3rd edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. M. Raman and S. Sharma, 2004; Technical Communication : Principles and
Practices, OUP, (Indian Edition)
2. Blanton, L.L. 1993; Composition Practice, Book 4 ,Second Edition, Heinle &
Heinle Publishers, pp. 54
3. Georges, T.M. 1996; A course in Analytical Writing for Science and
Technology,
http://home.comcast.net/~tgeorges/write/
34
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech CSE, IT-I SEM L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13CSE001) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING
Course Objectives:
After working through this course the student should be able to:
1. Learn how to write modular, efficient and readable C programs
2. Declare and manipulate single and multi-dimensional arrays of the C data
types.
3. Describe the techniques for creating program modules in C using functions
and recursive functions.
4. Create and manage derived data types and perform operations on files.
5. Utilize pointers and dynamic memory allocation functions to efficiently solve
problems.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students are expected to:
1. write, compile and debug programs in C language.
2. design programs involving decision structures, loops ,arrays and functions.
3. explain the difference between call by value and call by reference
4. understand the dynamics of memory by the use of pointers.
5. use different file operations to create/update basic data files.
UNIT- I
Computer fundamentals-Hardware, software, computer language , translators,
Program Development steps-Algorithms, Pseudo code, flow charts, basic Linux
commands ,Introduction to C Language – History, Simple C Program, Identifiers, Basic
data types, user defined data types, Variables, Constants, type qualifiers, Managing
Input / Output, Operators, Expressions, Precedence and Associativity, Expression
Evaluation, Type conversions, Simple C Programming examples.
UNIT - II
Selection Statements – if and switch statements, Repetitive statements – while, for, do-
while statements, C Programming examples, other statements related to looping –
break, continue, go to, C Programming examples.
Arrays– Basic concepts, one-dimensional arrays, two – dimensional arrays,
multidimensional arrays, C programming examples.
UNIT - III
Introduction to Structured Programming, Functions- basics, user defined functions,
inter function communication, Standard functions, Storage classes-auto, register,
35
static, extern, scope rules, arrays to functions, recursive functions, example C
programs.
Strings – Basic concepts, String Input / Output functions, arrays of strings, string
handling functions, strings to functions, C programming examples.
UNIT - IV
Derived types – Structures – Basic concepts, nested structures, arrays of structures,
structures and functions, unions, bit fields, C programming examples.
Pointers – Basic concepts, pointers and functions, pointers and strings, pointers and
arrays, pointers and structures, self-referential structures , example C programs.
UNIT – V
Preprocessor Directives, Dynamic Memory Allocation.
File I/O – Basic concepts, text files and binary files, file input / output operations, file
status functions (error handling), C programming examples, Command-Line
Arguments.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. C programming A Problem-Solving Approach by Behrouz A.Forouzan,
E.V.Prasad, Richard F.Gilberg C How to Program Paul Deitel and Harvey
Deitel , PH.
2. Computer Programming and Data Structures by E Balagurusamy, Tata
McGraw Hill.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Let Us C Yashavant kanetkar BPB.
2. The C Programming Language by Brian W. Kernighan, Dennis M. Ritchie.
3. Absolute beginner's guide to C, Greg M. Perry, Edition 2,Publisher: Sams
Pub., 1994.
36
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B. Tech- I SEM L T/P/D C
(Common to all branches) 3 0 3
(13CED004) ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
Course Objectives:
1. Develop an understanding of the necessity of protection of environment
2. Develop an understanding of Natural resources
3. Develop an understanding of Biodiversity
4. Develop an understanding of Global Environmental problems
5. Develop an understanding of Environmental pollution
Course Outcomes:
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be able to
1. Acquire the knowledge on environment
2. Acquire the knowledge of various Natural Resources
3. Develop skills in understanding of various environmental problems
4. Develop skills to protect the Environment
UNIT-I
Environmental Studies:
Introduction, Definition, scope and importance, Ecosystems: Introduction, types,
characteristic features, structure and functions of ecosystems. Bio geo chemical cycle,
Classification of Eco system.
UNIT-II
Natural Resources :classification of Resources, Land resources, Land as resource,
Common property resources, Land degradation, Soil erosion and desertification,
Effects of modern agriculture, fertilizer –pesticide problems, Forest resources, Use and
over-exploitation.
Mining and dams – their effects on forest and tribal people, Water resources, Use and
over- utilization of surface and groundwater, Floods, droughts, Water logging and
salinity, Dams –benefits and costs, Conflicts over Water, Energy resources.
UNIT-III
Bio-diversity and its conservation, Value of bio-diversity -consumptive and productive
use, social, ethical, aesthetic and option values, Bio-geographical classification of India
– India as a mega diversity habitat, Threats to bio-diversity –Hot-spots, habitat loss,
poaching of wild life, loss of species, seeds, etc. Conservation of bio-diversity – Insitu
and Ex-situ conservation.
37
UNIT-IV
Environmental Pollution –Local and Global Issues,Nature of thermal pollution and
nuclear hazards, Global warming, Acid rain,Ozone depletion., Environmental case
studies.
UNIT-V
Environmental Problems in India,Drinking water, sanitation and public health,Effects of
the activities on the quality of environment, Water scarcity and groundwater depletion,
Controversies on major dams – resettlement and rehabilitation of people: problems and
concerns, Rain water harvesting, cloud seeding and watershed management.
Economy and Environment, The economy and environment interaction, Economics of
development, preservation and conservation, Sustainability: theory and practices,
Limits to growth, Equitable use of resources for sustainable life styles, Environmental
Impact Assessment.
Text Books
1. Environmental Science - Y.Anjaneyulu, B S Publications.
2. Environmental studies-Deeksha dave, Cengage learning India Pvt. Ltd.,
3. Environmental sciences and Engineering - P. Venugopal Rao, PHI learning Pvt.
Ltd.,
4. Environmental Science and Technology by M. Anji Reddy, B S Publications.
Reference books
1. Clark, R.S., Marine Pollution, Clanderson Press, Oxford, 2002.
2. Cunningham, W.P., et al. , Environmental Encyclopedia, Jaico Publishing
House, Mumbai, 2003.
38
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech CSE, IT-I SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED103) IT & ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
Course Prerequisites:
Course Objectives:
• To study/demonstrate the concepts of computer w.r.t. its hardware, operating
system, assembling and disassembling.
• To conduct the experiments related to production engineering technology.
• To demonstrate the usage of power tools, CNC lathe and machine shop for
different exercises
Course Outcomes: Students will be able to:
• Identify, assemble, dissemble, install and write commands for a given
configuration of a computer.
• To develop components using the techniques of carpentry, tin smithy,
forging, etc. listed in trades for exercises.
• To work out the given models in machine shop and CNC lathe.
IT WORKSHOP
1. Computer Hardware: Identification of Peripherals
2. Assembling and disassembling of a PC
3. Simple diagnostic exercises – Related to hardware
4. Installation of Windows Operating System
5. Installation of Linux Operating System
6. Linux Basic Commands
7. Simple diagnostic exercises –Related to Operating System
TEXTBOOKS:
1. IT Essentials PC Hardware and Software Companion Guide Third Edition by
Davis Anfinson and Ken Quamme CISC Press, Pearson Education.
2. PC Hardware and A+ Handbook – Kate J. Chase PHI (Microsoft)
ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
TRADES FOR EXCERCISES
At least two exercises from each trade:
1. Carpentry
2. Tin-Smithy
3. Fitting
4. Welding
5. Electrical Wiring
39
TRADES FOR DEMONSTRATION and EXPOSURE:
1. Power tools in construction, wood working, electrical engineering and
mechanical engineering.
2. Machine shop.
3. CNC Lathe
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Workshop Manual by P.Kannaiah and K.L.Narayana; Publisher: Scitech.
40
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech CSE, IT-I SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13CSE101) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING LABORATORY
Course objectives:
After working through this course the student should be able to:
1. Gain a working knowledge of C programming to write modular, efficient and
readable C programs by Identifying the structural elements and layout of C source
code.
2. Declare and manipulate single and multi-dimensional arrays of the C data types
and derived data types like structures, unions.
3. Use functions from the portable C library and to describe the techniques for
creating program modules using functions and recursive functions.
4. Manipulate character strings in C programs.Utilize pointers to efficiently solve
problems.Allocate memory to variables dynamically and Perform operations on
text and binary files.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students are expected to:
1. understand the basic terminology used in computer programming and to write,
compile and debug programs in C language.
2. design programs involving decision structures, loops ,arrays and functions.
3. understand the dynamics of memory by the use of pointers.
4. use different file operations to create/update basic data files.
TASK 1
a. Basic Linux commands
b. Simple C programs -to implement basic arithmetic operations – sum, average,
product, smallest, largest of the numbers, difference, quotient and remainder of given
numbers etc.
TASK 2
Programs on if, else-if, nested if, else if ladder - largest and smallest of given numbers,
to find the grade of a student based on marks, roots of a quadratic equation etc.
TASK 3
a. Programs on switch-case – to check the type of a given character, to find the grade
of a student etc.
b. Programs on while and do-while- to find factorial, Fibonacci series, GCD, Sin(x),
Cos(x) series , to check whether a given number is an Armstrong, Palindrome, Perfect,
number conversion, and Prime number etc.
TASK 4
41
Programs on for loop- sum of n natural numbers, factorial, sin(x), to generate Pascal’s
triangle etc.
TASK 5
a. Programs on nested loops – check for Fibonacci prime, Pyramids of numbers,
generation of prime numbers in the given range, multiplication table etc.
b. programs using break, go to, continue.
TASK 6
a. Programs on 1-D array-finding minimum and maximum element ,Sorting and
Searching etc.
b. Programs on 2-D array – sum, product and multiplication of two Matrices etc.
TASK 7
a. Programs on Functions-Implementation of user defined functions categories,
passing of arrays to functions etc.
b. Programs on recursion - factorial of a given integer, GCD of two given integers etc.
TASK 8
a. Programs on String handling functions-copying, reverse, substring, concatenation.
b. Programs on structure and unions.
Mid Term EXAM
TASK 10
Programs using pointers- pointer basic operations, pointers and functions etc
TASK 11
Programs on pointers and structures, pointers and arrays, pointers and strings.
TASK 12
Programs on files-implementation of file handling functions.
TASK 13
a. Programs on files error handling.
b. Programs on Dynamic memory allocation
TASK 14
Programs on command line arguments.
TASK 15
Programs on preprocessor directives
TASK 16
INTERNAL LAB EXAM
42
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech IT, CSE– I SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13EPC101) ENGINEERING PHYSICS & CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. To practically learn interaction of light with matter through physical
phenomena like interference, diffraction and dispersion.
2. To expose to the principle of superposition and resonance.
3. To demonstrate the formation of standing waves and to understand the
mechanical wave behavior and to determine Rigidity Modulus of different
material s of wires .
4. To demonstrate basic discharge phenomenon in capacitors and to know the
characteristics of the circuit elements, like resistors, capacitors and inductors.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course, the students will be able to:
1. Understand clearly the interference principle in wave theory of light and able
to relate it to the formation of Newton Rings and Obtain a pure spectrum
when light passes through prism
2. Understand the formation and propagation of mechanical waves
3. Study simple oscillations of a load attached to a string and relate it to nature
of material of string
4. Understand the physical significance of time constant and related uses
Any Eight Experiments from the following:
1. Dispersive Power of the material of a Prism using Spectrometer
2. Diffraction Grating (both with Laser and non laser source)
3. Single Slit with laser light
4. Newton’s Rings
5. Finding thickness of a thin wire or sheet by forming a wedge shaped film
6. Energy gap of a semiconductor material
7. Torsional Pendulum Expt: To determine the rigidity modulus of material of a
wire
8. Melde’s experiment
9. Sonometer Experiment
10. AC frequency by sonometer method
11. Numerical Aperture and Acceptance angle of an optical fiber cable
12. Bending losses in optical fiber
13. Stewart Gee’s experiment
43
14. Characteristics of LED/Laser Diode.
15. Photo cell/ Solar Cell
16. RC circuit-Time constant
Book: Essential Practical Lab Manual in Physics: by P.Raghavendra Rao
Engineering Chemistry Lab
Course Objectives:
• Estimation of hardness of water is essential for drinking water and in
industries to avoid boiler troubles.
• Knowledge of instrumentation in Colorimeter, Redwood viscometer,
Conductivity meter and pH meter.
• Knowledge of preparation of soap.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course, the students will be able to:
• Understand the extent of hardness range present in a water sample and its
consequences if used for various industrial operations.
• Determination of strength of solutions ,pH of various solutions, lubricants
usage in machinery to prevent wear and tear.
• Understanding the composition of soap used for washings.
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
1. Titrimetry
a) Estimation of hardness of water by EDTA method.
2. Instrumental methods
(i) Conductometry
a) Conductometric titration of strong acid vs. strong base
(ii) Colorimetry
a)Estimation of copper by colorimetric method
(iii) pH metry
a) Titration of strong acid vs. strong base by pH metry
3. Physical properties
a)Determination of viscosity of sample oil by Redwood viscometer.
4. Preparation of Organic Compounds:
a) Preparation of soap
b) Preparation of Nano particles.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by S.K.Bhasin and Sudha
Rani; Publisher: Dhanpat Rai Publishing Company.
2. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari and
Jyotsna Cherukuri; Publisher: VGS Book Links,Vijayawada.
44
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech CSE& IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13MTH002) LINEAR ALGEBRA AND ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
Course prerequisites: Matrices, Differentiation and Integration
Course Objectives:
1. Understand the Echolen form and Normal form of a matrix and its
applications in solving linear system of equations.
2. Understand the methods of solving first order differential equations and learn
about its applications to L-R and R-C circuits.
3. Apply the convolution theorem to evaluate Laplace Transform of the
functions.
4. Apply Z-Transforms in solving the difference equations.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
1. Find the rank using Echolen form and Normal form.
2. Solve the problems in first order and second order differential equations.
3. learn Laplace Transform as a tool.
4. Evaluate the Z-Transform of the given function.
UNIT-I
LINEAR ALGEBRA – MATRICES:
Rank of matrix, Hermitian and skew – Hermitian matrices, Inverse of matrix by
elementary operations. Consistency of linear simultaneous equations, Eigen values
and eigen vectors, Diagonalisation of a matrix (including the case of repeated eigen
values). Caley – Hamilton theorem (without proof), Quadratic forms - reduction of
quadratic form to canonical form by linear transformation.
UNIT-II
ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS AND THEIR APPLICATIONS:
Differential equations of first order and first degree - Exact differential equation , Linear
and Bernoulli differential equation , Applications of differential equations of first order
and first degree - Newton’s law of cooling, Law of natural growth and decay,
Orthogonal trajectories, and basic circuits(L-R Circuits, R-C Circuits).
UNIT-III
DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS OF HIGHER ORDER AND THEIR APPLICATIONS:
Differential equations of higher order - homogeneous and non-homogenous type,
differential equations of second order and higher order with constant coefficients with
45
ax
ax
right hand side term of the type e sin (ax), cos (ax), polynomials in x, e ,
V(x), x V(x) and method of variation of parameters; Euler-Cauchy’s 2nd order differential
equations, applications to spring mass system, Simple harmonic motion and L-C-R
Circuits.
UNIT-IV
LAPLACE TRANSFORMS:
Existence condition, Laplace transform of standard functions, Properties, Inverse
Laplace transform of functions using partial fractions, Convolution and Convolution
theorem (statement only). Solving linear differential equations using Laplace transform.
Unit step function, Impulse function and Periodic function and their transforms.
UNIT- V
Z-TRANSFORMS:
Z-transform; Inverse z-transform; Properties, initial and final value theorems;
Convolution theorem (theorems without proofs); Difference equations; Solutions of
difference equations using z-transform.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – B. S. Grewal,Khanna publishers.
2. A First Course in Differential Equations by Dennis G. Zill; Publisher: Brooks
Cole publiers.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa
Publications.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher:
John Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher:
Cengage Learning
46
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech CSE&IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13MTH003)NUMERICAL ANALYSIS AND LINEAR PROGRAMMING
Course prerequisites : Elementary row transformations of matrices, differentiation
and integration.
Course objectives:
1. Understand the numerical methods for non linear systems, evaluating definite
integrals and ordinary differential equations.
2. Understand various methods of interpolation.
3. Understand the simplex method and methods to solve the transportation
problem.
Course outcomes:
Student will be able to
1. Apply the numerical methods to find a root of algebraic and
transcendental equations.
2. Apply the numerical methods to find the solutions of ordinary differential
equations.
3. Use simplex method procedure to optimize a linear function.
4. Solve transportation problems
UNIT I
Solutions of non-linear systems:
Introduction; Mathematical preliminaries; Solution of algebraic and transcendental
equations – the iteration method, the bisection method, the method of false position,
Newton - Raphson method, and their order of convergence.
UNIT II
Interpolation:
Introduction; Errors in polynomial interpolation; Finite differences; Forward differences;
Backward differences; Central differences; Symbolic relations and separation of
symbols; Differences of a polynomial; Newton’s formulae for interpolation; Central
difference interpolation formulae; Gauss’s central difference formulae; Lagrange and
Hermite interpolation formulae.
UNIT III
Numerical differentiation and Integration:
Numerical differentiation based on interpolation, Numerical integration: Trapezoidal
rule, Simpson’s 1/3 rule, and Simpson’s 3/8 rule.
47
Numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations:
Solution of initial value problems by Taylor’s series - Picard’s method of successive
approximations, Euler’s method, and Runge - Kutta methods; Predictor Corrector
methods - Adams Bashforth method- Adams Moulton method and Milne’s method
(without proofs).
UNIT IV
Linear programming
Basic concepts; problem formulation, graphical method, canonical and standard forms
of LPP simplex method, Artificial variables technique- Big-M method,
UNIT V
Transportation problems:
Balanced and Unbalanced transportation problems- North-West corner rule, Least cost
method, Vogel’s approximation method (VAM) and MODI method.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Elementary Numerical Analysis – B.S. Grewal, 3rd edition Publisher: Khanna
Publishers
2. Operations Research - Taha H.A, Publisher: Mcmillan Publishing:
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher:
John Wiley and Sons.
2. Elementary Numerical Analysis – an algorithmic approach -Samuel D. Conte
and Carl De Boor (2006); 3rd edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill 3.
Operations Research – by S.D. Gupta
3. Operations Research- Kantiswaroop , P.K Gupta and Manmohan, 4th
edition, Publisher: Sultan Chand & Sons.
48
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech CSE&IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13PHY004) APPLIED PHYSICS
Course Objectives:
1. To learn the basic operators and expectation values in quantum mechanics
2. To learn different semiconductors and to calculate their carrier concentration
and semiconductor devices
3. To learn the properties of magnetic materials and classification, Dielectric
materials
4. To learn the concept and applications of superconductors
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course, the students will be able to:
1. Recognize different types of operators and their applications and Learn
expectation values and understand the tunneling effect.
2. To identify different semiconductors and to calculate their carrier
concentration.
3. Learn the magnetic properties of materials classify the magnetic materials
into Dia, Para and ferromagnetic materials.
4. Learn the characteristics, properties and applications of superconductors and
magnetic materials.
UNIT-I
ADVANCED QUANTUM MECHANICS:
Schrodinger equation revisited: Time dependent wave equation, Linearity and
Superposition, Expectation values and Operators (Position, Momentum and Energy
operators), Finite Potential well, Tunnel Effect, Problems.
UNIT-II
SEMICONDUCTOR PHYSICS:
Fermi level in Intrinsic and Extrinsic semiconductors - Intrinsic semiconductor and
carrier concentration – Extrinsic semiconductor and carrier concentration – Equation of
continuity – Direct and indirect band gap semiconductors - Hall Effect.
PHYSICS OF SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES:
Formation of p-n junction – open circuit p-n junction – Energy diagram of diode – i/v
characteristics of p-n junction diode – p-n diode as a rectifier – Diode equation –
Introduction to LED, BJT and FET.
49
UNIT-III
MAGNETIC PROPERTIES OF MATERIALS:
Permeability, Field intensity, magnetic field induction, Magnetization and Magnetic
susceptibility – Origin of magnetic moment, Bohr magneton – Classification of
magnetic materials (Dia, Para and Ferro)- Domain theory of ferromagnetism,
Hysteresis curve – Soft and Hard magnetic materials – Ferrites and their applications.
UNIT-IV
DIELECTRIC PROPERTIES:
Electric dipole, Dipole moment, Dielectric constant, Electronic, Ionic and Orientation
Polarization – Calculation of Polarizibilities – Frequency dependence of Polarization-
Internal fields – Claussius – Mossotti equation –Piezo and Ferro electricity.
UNIT-V
SUPERCONDUCTORS:
Experimental survey and superconductivity phenomenon, – Meissner effect – Critical
fields and Persistent currents, Type I and Type II superconductors - London equations-
penetration depth-flux quantization-BCS Theory- Josephson Effect– High temperature
Superconductors, Applications of Superconductors.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Concepts of Modern physics by Arthur Beiser, McGraw Hill Inc.
2. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd
3. Electronic Devices and circuits by Milliman and Halkias
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Engineering Physics by Dr M Chandra Shekar and Dr P. Appala Naidu, VGS
Book links.
2. Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
3. Quantum Mechanics by Gupta Kumar Sharma
4. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
5. Engineering Physics by M.R.Srinivasan, New Age Publishers
6. Solid State Physics by M.A. Wahab.
50
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech-CSE & IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13CSE032) CODE OF ETHICS
Course Objectives
1.To be aware of Contribute to society and human well-being
2. To familiarize with the concepts of Avoid harm to others
3. To learn more about Honor property rights
4. To understand important concepts Professional Responsibility
Course Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1.Be aware of Work to extend public knowledge, understanding, and appreciation of
information processing and its consequences.
2 .Be aware of the social and ethical issues associated with human performance
measurement .
3 Assess the use of technology equipment to intimidate, insult, embarrass, or harass
others.
UNIT – I: GENERAL MORAL IMPERATIVES.
1.1 Contribute to society and human well-being.
This principle concerning the quality of life of all people affirms an obligation to protect
fundamental human rights and to respect the diversity of all cultures. An essential aim
of computing professionals is to minimize negative consequences of computing
systems, including threats to health and safety. When designing or implementing
systems, computing professionals must attempt to ensure that the products of their
efforts will be used in socially responsible ways, will meet social needs, and will avoid
harmful effects to health and welfare.
In addition to a safe social environment, human well-being includes a safe natural
environment. Therefore, computing professionals who design and develop systems
must be alert to, and make others aware of, any potential damage to the local or global
environment.
1.2 Avoid harm to others.
"Harm" means injury or negative consequences, such as undesirable loss of
information, loss of property, property damage, or unwanted environmental impacts.
51
This principle prohibits use of computing technology in ways that result in harm to any
of the following: users, the general public, employees, and employers. Harmful actions
include intentional destruction or modification of files and programs leading to serious
loss of resources or unnecessary expenditure of human resources such as the time
and effort required to purge systems of "computer viruses."
Well-intended actions, including those that accomplish assigned duties, may lead to
harm unexpectedly. In such an event the responsible person or persons are obligated
to undo or mitigate the negative consequences as much as possible. One way to avoid
unintentional harm is to carefully consider potential impacts on all those affected by
decisions made during design and implementation.
To minimize the possibility of indirectly harming others, computing professionals must
minimize malfunctions by following generally accepted standards for system design
and testing. Furthermore, it is often necessary to assess the social consequences of
systems to project the likelihood of any serious harm to others. If system features are
misrepresented to users, coworkers, or supervisors, the individual computing
professional is responsible for any resulting injury.
In the work environment the computing professional has the additional obligation to
report any signs of system dangers that might result in serious personal or social
damage. If one's superiors do not act to curtail or mitigate such dangers, it may be
necessary to "blow the whistle" to help correct the problem or reduce the risk.
However, capricious or misguided reporting of violations can, itself, be harmful. Before
reporting violations, all relevant aspects of the incident must be thoroughly assessed.
In particular, the assessment of risk and responsibility must be credible. It is suggested
that advice be sought from other computing professionals.
1.3 Be honest and trustworthy.
Honesty is an essential component of trust. Without trust an organization cannot
function effectively. The honest computing professional will not make deliberately false
or deceptive claims about a system or system design, but will instead provide full
disclosure of all pertinent system limitations and problems.
A computer professional has a duty to be honest about his or her own qualifications,
and about any circumstances that might lead to conflicts of interest.
Membership in volunteer organizations such as ACM may at times place individuals in
situations where their statements or actions could be interpreted as carrying the
"weight" of a larger group of professionals. An ACM member will exercise care to not
misrepresent ACM or positions and policies of ACM or any ACM units.
1.4 Be fair and take action not to discriminate.
The values of equality, tolerance, respect for others, and the principles of equal justice
govern this imperative. Discrimination on the basis of race, sex, religion, age, disability,
52
national origin, or other such factors is an explicit violation of ACM policy and will not
be tolerated.
Inequities between different groups of people may result from the use or misuse of
information and technology. In a fair society, all individuals would have equal
opportunity to participate in, or benefit from, the use of computer resources regardless
of race, sex, religion, age, disability, national origin or other such similar factors.
However, these ideals do not justify unauthorized use of computer resources nor do
they provide an adequate basis for violation of any other ethical imperatives of this
code.
1.5 Honor property rights including copyrights and patent.
Violation of copyrights, patents, trade secrets and the terms of license agreements is
prohibited by law in most circumstances. Even when software is not so protected, such
violations are contrary to professional behavior. Copies of software should be made
only with proper authorization. Unauthorized duplication of materials must not be
condoned.
1.6 Give proper credit for intellectual property.
Computing professionals are obligated to protect the integrity of intellectual property.
Specifically, one must not take credit for other's ideas or work, even in cases where the
work has not been explicitly protected by copyright, patent, etc.
1.7 Respect the privacy of others.
Computing and communication technology enables the collection and exchange of
personal information on a scale unprecedented in the history of civilization. Thus there
is increased potential for violating the privacy of individuals and groups. It is the
responsibility of professionals to maintain the privacy and integrity of data describing
individuals. This includes taking precautions to ensure the accuracy of data, as well as
protecting it from unauthorized access or accidental disclosure to inappropriate
individuals. Furthermore, procedures must be established to allow individuals to review
their records and correct inaccuracies.
This imperative implies that only the necessary amount of personal information be
collected in a system, that retention and disposal periods for that information be clearly
defined and enforced, and that personal information gathered for a specific purpose not
be used for other purposes without consent of the individual(s). These principles apply
to electronic communications, including electronic mail, and prohibit procedures that
capture or monitor electronic user data, including messages, without the permission of
users or bona fide authorization related to system operation and maintenance. User
data observed during the normal duties of system operation and maintenance must be
treated with strictest confidentiality, except in cases where it is evidence for the
violation of law, organizational regulations, or this Code. In these cases, the nature or
contents of that information must be disclosed only to proper authorities.
53
1.8 Honor confidentiality.
The principle of honesty extends to issues of confidentiality of information whenever
one has made an explicit promise to honor confidentiality or, implicitly, when private
information not directly related to the performance of one's duties becomes available.
The ethical concern is to respect all obligations of confidentiality to employers, clients,
and users unless discharged from such obligations by requirements of the law or other
principles of this Code.
UNIT – II: MORE SPECIFIC PROFESSIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
2.1 Strive to achieve the highest quality, effectiveness and dignity in both the
process and products of professional work.
Excellence is perhaps the most important obligation of a professional. The computing
professional must strive to achieve quality and to be cognizant of the serious negative
consequences that may result from poor quality in a system.
2.2 Acquire and maintain professional competence.
Excellence depends on individuals who take responsibility for acquiring and
maintaining professional competence. A professional must participate in setting
standards for appropriate levels of competence, and strive to achieve those standards.
Upgrading technical knowledge and competence can be achieved in several ways:
doing independent study; attending seminars, conferences, or courses; and being
involved in professional organizations.
2.3 Know and respect existing laws pertaining to professional work.
ACM members must obey existing local, state, province, national, and international
laws unless there is a compelling ethical basis not to do so. Policies and procedures of
the organizations in which one participates must also be obeyed. But compliance must
be balanced with the recognition that sometimes existing laws and rules may be
immoral or inappropriate and, therefore, must be challenged. Violation of a law or
regulation may be ethical when that law or rule has inadequate moral basis or when it
conflicts with another law judged to be more important. If one decides to violate a law
or rule because it is viewed as unethical, or for any other reason, one must fully accept
responsibility for one's actions and for the consequences.
2.4 Accept and provide appropriate professional review.
Quality professional work, especially in the computing profession, depends on
professional reviewing and critiquing. Whenever appropriate, individual members
should seek and utilize peer review as well as provide critical review of the work of
others.
2.5 Give comprehensive and thorough evaluations of computer systems and
their impacts, including analysis of possible risks.
Computer professionals must strive to be perceptive, thorough, and objective when
evaluating, recommending, and presenting system descriptions and alternatives.
54
Computer professionals are in a position of special trust, and therefore have a special
responsibility to provide objective, credible evaluations to employers, clients, users,
and the public. When providing evaluations the professional must also identify any
relevant conflicts of interest.
Avoiding harm, any signs of danger from systems must be reported to those who have
opportunity and/or responsibility to resolve them.
2.6 Honor contracts, agreements, and assigned responsibilities.
Honoring one's commitments is a matter of integrity and honesty. For the computer
professional this includes ensuring that system elements perform as intended. Also,
when one contracts for work with another party, one has an obligation to keep that
party properly informed about progress toward completing that work.
A computing professional has a responsibility to request a change in any assignment
that he or she feels cannot be completed as defined. Only after serious consideration
and with full disclosure of risks and concerns to the employer or client, should one
accept the assignment. The major underlying principle here is the obligation to accept
personal accountability for professional work. On some occasions other ethical
principles may take greater priority.
A judgment that a specific assignment should not be performed may not be accepted.
Having clearly identified one's concerns and reasons for that judgment, but failing to
procure a change in that assignment, one may yet be obligated, by contract or by law,
to proceed as directed. The computing professional's ethical judgment should be the
final guide in deciding whether or not to proceed. Regardless of the decision, one must
accept the responsibility for the consequences.
However, performing assignments "against one's own judgment" does not relieve the
professional of responsibility for any negative consequences.
2.7 Improve public understanding of computing and its consequences.
Computing professionals have a responsibility to share technical knowledge with the
public by encouraging understanding of computing, including the impacts of computer
systems and their limitations. This imperative implies an obligation to counter any false
views related to computing.
2.8 Access computing and communication resources only when authorized to do
so.
Theft or destruction of tangible and electronic property is prohibited - "Avoid harm to
others." Trespassing and unauthorized use of a computer or communication system is
addressed by this imperative. Trespassing includes accessing communication
networks and computer systems, or accounts and/or files associated with those
systems, without explicit authorization to do so. Individuals and organizations have the
right to restrict access to their systems so long as they do not violate the discrimination
principle. No one should enter or use another's computer system, software, or data
55
files without permission. One must always have appropriate approval before using
system resources, including communication ports, file space, other system peripherals,
and computer time.
UNIT – III: ORGANIZATIONAL LEADERSHIP IMPERATIVES.
BACKGROUND NOTE: This section draws extensively from the draft IFIP Code of
Ethics, especially its sections on organizational ethics and international concerns. The
ethical obligations of organizations tend to be neglected in most codes of professional
conduct, perhaps because these codes are written from the perspective of the
individual member. This dilemma is addressed by stating these imperatives from the
perspective of the organizational leader. In this context "leader" is viewed as any
organizational member who has leadership or educational responsibilities. These
imperatives generally may apply to organizations as well as their leaders. In this
context "organizations" are corporations, government agencies, and other "employers,"
as well as volunteer professional organizations.
3.1 Articulate social responsibilities of members of an organizational unit and
encourage full acceptance of those responsibilities.
Because organizations of all kinds have impacts on the public, they must accept
responsibilities to society. Organizational procedures and attitudes oriented toward
quality and the welfare of society will reduce harm to members of the public, thereby
serving public interest and fulfilling social responsibility. Therefore, organizational
leaders must encourage full participation in meeting social responsibilities as well as
quality performance.
3.2 Manage personnel and resources to design and build information systems
that enhance the quality of working life.
Organizational leaders are responsible for ensuring that computer systems enhance,
not degrade, the quality of working life. When implementing a computer system,
organizations must consider the personal and professional development, physical
safety, and human dignity of all workers. Appropriate human-computer ergonomic
standards should be considered in system design and in the workplace.
3.3 Acknowledge and support proper and authorized uses of an organization's
computing and communication resources.
Because computer systems can become tools to harm as well as to benefit an
organization, the leadership has the responsibility to clearly define appropriate and
inappropriate uses of organizational computing resources. While the number and
scope of such rules should be minimal, they should be fully enforced when established.
3.4 Ensure that users and those who will be affected by a system have their
needs clearly articulated during the assessment and design of requirements;
later the system must be validated to meet requirements.
56
Current system users, potential users and other persons whose lives may be affected
by a system must have their needs assessed and incorporated in the statement of
requirements. System validation should ensure compliance with those requirements.
3.5 Articulate and support policies that protect the dignity of users and others
affected by a computing system.
Designing or implementing systems that deliberately or inadvertently demean
individuals or groups is ethically unacceptable. Computer professionals who are in
decision making positions should verify that systems are designed and implemented to
protect personal privacy and enhance personal dignity.
3.6 Create opportunities for members of the organization to learn the principles
and limitations of computer systems.
This complements the imperative on public understanding. Educational opportunities
are essential to facilitate optimal participation of all organizational members.
Opportunities must be available to all members to help them improve their knowledge
and skills in computing, including courses that familiarize them with the consequences
and limitations of particular types of systems. In particular, professionals must be made
aware of the dangers of building systems around oversimplified models, the
improbability of anticipating and designing for every possible operating condition, and
other issues related to the complexity of this profession.
UNIT-IV: Software Engineering Code of Ethics and Professional Practice -Public
4.1. Accept full responsibility for their own work.
4.2 Moderate the interests of the software engineer, the employer, the client and
the users with the public good.
4.3 Approve software only if they have a well-founded belief that it is safe, meets
specifications, passes appropriate tests, and does not diminish quality of life,
diminish privacy or harm the environment. The ultimate effect of the work
should be to the public good.
4.4 Disclose to appropriate persons or authorities any actual or potential danger to
the user, the public, or the environment, that they reasonably believe to be
associated with software or related documents.
4.5 Cooperate in efforts to address matters of grave public concern caused by
software, its installation, maintenance, support or documentation.
4.6. Be fair and avoid deception in all statements, particularly public ones,
concerning software or related documents, methods and tools.
4.7. Consider issues of physical disabilities, allocation of resources, economic
disadvantage and other factors that can diminish access to the benefits of
software.
4.8. Be encouraged to volunteer professional skills to good causes and contribute to
public education concerning the discipline.
57
UNIT V: Software Engineering Code of Ethics and Professional Practice - CLIENT
AND EMPLOYER
5.1. Provide service in their areas of competence, being honest and forthright about
any limitations of their experience and education.
5.2. Not knowingly use software that is obtained or retained either illegally or
unethically.
5.3. Use the property of a client or employer only in ways properly authorized, and
with the client's or employer's knowledge and consent.
5.4. Ensure that any document upon which they rely has been approved, when
required, by someone authorized to approve it.
5.5. Keep private any confidential information gained in their professional work,
where such confidentiality is consistent with the public interest and consistent
with the law.
5.6. Identify, document, collect evidence and report to the client or the employer
promptly if, in their opinion, a project is likely to fail, to prove too expensive, to
violate intellectual property law, or otherwise to be problematic.
5.7. Identify, document, and report significant issues of social concern, of which they
are aware, in software or related documents, to the employer or the client.
5.8. Accept no outside work detrimental to the work they perform for their primary
employer.
5.9. Promote no interest adverse to their employer or client, unless a higher ethical
concern is being compromised; in that case, inform the employer or another
appropriate authority of the ethical concern.
Source: www.acm.org
Suggested Readings:
• Ladd, John. "The Quest for a Code of Professional Ethics: An Intellectual and
Moral Confusion." In Deborah G. Johnson (ed.) Ethical Issues in
Engineering. New Jersey: Prentice Hall, 1991.
• Flores, Albert. "The Philosophical Basis of Engineering Codes of Ethics." In
Vesilind P.A. and A. Gunn (eds), Engineering Ethics and the
Environment. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1998: 201-209.
• Ruth Chadwick (1998). Professional Ethics. In E. Craig (Ed.), Routledge
Encyclopedia of Philosophy. London: Routledge. Retrieved October 20, 2006,
fromhttp://www.rep.routledge.com/article /L077
• Caroline Whitbeck, "Ethics in Engineering Practice and Research" Cambridge
University Press, 1998 page 40
• RICS- MAINTAINING PROFESSIONAL AND ETHICAL STANDARDS
• Michael Davis , ‘Thinking like an Engineer’ in Philosophy and Public Affairs,
20.2 (1991) page 158
58
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech-CSE, IT, ECE, EEE, EIE – II SEM L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13ITD002) DATA STRUCTURES
Course Objectives:
1. To teach efficient storage mechanisms of data for an easy access.
2. To design and implementation of various basic and advanced data structures.
3. To introduce various techniques for representation of the data in the real world.
4. To develop application using data structures and to improve the logical ability
Course Outcomes:
1. Student will be able to choose appropriate data structure as applied to
specified problem definition.
2. Student will be able to handle operations like searching, insertion, deletion,
traversing mechanism etc. on various data structures.
3. Students will be able to apply concepts learned in various domains like DBMS,
compiler construction etc.
4. Students will be able to use linear and non-linear data structures like stacks,
queues, and linked list.
UNIT-I
Data Structures – Introduction to Data Structures, abstract data types, Linear list –
singly linked list implementation, insertion, deletion and searching operations on linear
list, circular linked list implementation, Double linked list implementation, insertion,
deletion and searching operations. Applications of linked lists.
UNIT –II
Stacks-Operations, array and linked representations of stacks, stack applications-infix
to postfix conversion, postfix expression evaluation, recursion implementation.
UNIT-III
Queues-operations, array and linked representations. Circular Queue operations,
Dequeue, applications of queue.
UNIT-IV
Trees – Definitions, Binary tree representation, Binary search tree, binary tree
traversals.
Graphs – Definitions, Graph representations, Graph traversals.
UNIT-V
Searching and Sorting – Big O Notation, Sorting- selection sort, bubble sort, insertion
sort, quick sort, merge sort,
Searching-linear and binary search methods.
59
TEXT BOOKS:
1. C Programming & Data Structures, B.A.Forouzan and R.F. Gilberg, Third
Edition, Cengage Learning.
2. Data Structures Using C (Paperback) by Aaron M. Tenenbaum
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. C& Data structures – P. Padmanabham, Third Edition, B.S. Publications.
2. Data Structures using C – A.M.Tanenbaum, Y.Langsam, and M.J. Augenstein,
Pearson Education
3. C Programming & Data Structures, E. Balagurusamy, TMH.
4. C Programming & Data Structures, P. Dey, M Ghosh R Thereja, Oxford
University Press
5. C& Data structures – E V Prasad and N B Venkateswarlu, S. Chand&Co.
60
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech CSE&IT-II SEM L T/P/D C
2 4 4
(13MED176)ENGINEERING DRAWING
Course Prerequisites: Geometrical construction
Course Objectives:
1. Understand the usage of drawing instruments.
2. Understand the construction methods for drawing conic sections
3. Identify the significance of curves in engineering practice like bridges,
building, arches etc.,
4. Understand first and third angle projections and methods.
Course Outcomes:
1. Visualize the objects looking into projections.
2. Convert projections for isometric to orthographic and vice versa
3. Work with Auto CAD for the above
UNIT – I
Introduction to Engineering Drawing; Introduction to AutoCAD; Construction of Ellipse,
Parabola and Hyperbola – General and Special methods; Cycloidal curves.
UNIT – II
Projections of points; Projections of lines and planes – inclined to one plane and
inclined to both the planes.
UNIT – III
Projections of solids: Prism, Pyramid, Cylinder, Cone - axis inclined to one plane and
inclined to both the planes.
UNIT – IV
Isometric projections of lines, planes and simple solids.
UNIT – V
Conversion of orthographic views into isometric views and vice-versa.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering drawing By N.D.Bhatt.
2 Engineering graphics By K.L. Narayana & P.Kannayya.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Engineering drawing and graphics: Venugopal/ New age
2. Engineering drawing: Johle / TMH
61
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech-CSE, IT, ECE, EEE, EIE – II SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13ITD102)DATA STRUCTURES LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. To develop skills to design and analyze simple linear data structures
2. To develop skills to design and analyze simple nonlinear data structures
3. To strengthen the ability to identify and apply the suitable data structure for
the given real world problem
4. To gain knowledge in practical applications of data structures
Course Outcomes:
1. To be able to design and analyze the time efficiency of the data structure
2. To be able to design and analyze the space efficiency of the data structure
3. To be capable to identity the appropriate data structure for given problem
4. Have practical knowledge on the application of data structures
TASK 1:
1. Write a program for creation, Search and Traversal of Single Linked List
2. Write a program to perform insertion and deletion operations in Single Linked
List
3. Write a program to merge two single linked lists
TASK 2:
1. Write a program for creation, Search and Traversal of Circular Linked List
2. Write a program to perform insertion and deletion operations in Circular
Linked List
TASK 3:
1. Write a program for creation, Search and Traversal of Double Linked List
2. Write a program to perform insertion and deletion operations in Double
Linked List
TASK 4:
1. Write a program to implement stack using Arrays
2. Write a program to implement stack using Linked List
TASK 5:
1. Write a program to convert infix expression to postfix expression using stack
2. Write a program to evaluate postfix expression
TASK 6:
1. Programs using recursion
2. Write a program to convert infix expression to prefix expression using stack
TASK 7:
62
1. Write a program to implement Linear queue using Array
2. Write a program to implement Linear queue using Linked List
TASK 8:
1. Write a program to implement insertions and deletions in a circular Queue
2. Write a program to perform search and count operations in a circular queue
TASK 9:
1. Write a program to implement insertions and deletions in a Dequeue
2. Write a program to perform search and count operations in Dequeue
TASK 10: Mid Term Exam
TASK 11:
1. Write a program to implement Linear search
2. Write a program to implement Binary Search
TASK 12:
1. Write a program to implement Selection sort
2. Write a program to implement Bubble sort
3. Write a program to implement Insertion sort
TASK 13:
1. Write a program to implement Merge sort
2. Write a program to implement Quick sort
TASK 14:
1. Implementation of a binary tree representation using Arrays
2. Write a program to implement tree traversals.
TASK 15:
1. Implementation of a Graph representation using Adjacency Matrix
2. Write a program to implement graph traversals.
TASK 16:
Final Internal Lab Exam
TEXT BOOKS:
1. C Programming & Data Structures, B.A.Forouzan and R.F. Gilberg, Third
Edition, Cengage Learning.
2. Data Structures Using C (Paperback) by Aaron M. Tenenbaum
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. C& Data structures – P. Padmanabham, Third Edition, B.S. Publications.
2. Data Structures using C – A.M.Tanenbaum, Y.Langsam, and M.J.
Augenstein, Pearson Education / PHI
3. C Programming & Data Structures, E. Balagurusamy, TMH.
4. C Programming & Data Structures, P. Dey, M Ghosh R Thereja, Oxford
University Press
5. C& Data structures – E V Prasad and N B Venkateswarlu, S. Chand&Co.
63
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech CSE, IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13ENG101)ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATIONS SKILLS LABORATORY
The English language Communication Skills Lab aims to provide practice in all the four
skills of LSRW, with a special emphasis on listening and speaking skills.
Course Objectives
1. Provide ample practice in LSRW skills.
2. Provide practice in grammatical construction, structural patterns, word usage
and improve comprehension abilities in the students.
3. Train students to use neutral pronunciation through phonetic sounds,
symbols, stress and intonation.
4. Enable students to transfer information from verbal to graphic representation
and vice versa.
5. Train students to use effective language for oral presentations, public
speaking, role play and situational dialogue.
Course Outcomes
1. Comprehend spoken and written discourse.
2. Speak fluently with neutral pronunciation and exhibit interpersonal skills.
3. Write accurately, coherently and lucidly making appropriate use of words
depending on context and present data clearly.
4. Introduce one self to people and be able to speak extempore.
Syllabus for Lab Sessions
Unit 1
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar : Nouns and Pronouns; Articles; The Present Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 1
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: Introduction of Self and others
Unit 2
Multimedia Lab:
1. Grammar: Concord; Adjectives; The Past Tense
2. Vocabulary: Lesson 2
3. Listening Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Seeking and Giving Information, Giving and
Taking Instructions
64
Unit 3
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar --- Adverbs, Conjunctions, Prepositions; The Future Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 3
3. Telephoning Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Role Play/ Situational Dialogues
Unit 4
Multimedia Lab:
1. Grammar ---- Active and Passive Voice; Language Analysis
2. Vocabulary : Lesson 4
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: i) JAM/ Short Talk ii) Information
Transfer a) Interpretation of Graph
Unit 5
Multimedia Lab:
1. Introduction to Technical Writing
A. Definition of a Technical Term
B. Description of a Mechanism
C. Description of a Technical Process
2. Vocabulary : Lesson 5
Communication Skills Lab : Presentation Skills: Oral Presentation
Multimedia Lab Requirements
The English Language Lab shall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Lab for 60 students with 60 systems, one
master console, LAN facility and English language software for self- study by
learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Lab with movable chairs and audio-visual aids
with a P.A System, a T. V., a digital stereo –audio & video system and
camcorder etc.
iii) System Requirement (Hardware component):
Computer network with LAN with minimum 60 multimedia systems with the
following specifications:
i) P – IV Processor
ii) Speed – 2.8 GHZ
iii) RAM – 512 MB Minimum
iv) Hard Disk – 80 GB
v) Headphones of High quality
65
iv) Suggested Software:
The software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above should be
procured and used.
List of Software:
(cid:1) Clarity Pronunciation Power – part II
(cid:1) Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
(cid:1) DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill
Practice.
(cid:1) Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
(cid:1) TOEFL & GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO & BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE by
CLIFFS)
66
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B. Tech CSE, IT – I SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13MTH007) PROBABILITY, STATISTICS AND QUEUING THEORY
Course prerequisites: permutations and combinations, basic statistics
Course Objectives:
1. Understand the elementary ideas in basic probability.
2. Understand the different types of probability distribution functions
3. Understand the basic concepts in estimation theory and test of hypothesis
4. Understand the basic concepts of queuing theory.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
1. Solve problems involving basic probability.
2. Apply the knowledge of different probability distributions to Test of
Hypothesis.
3. Calculate correlation, regression coefficients.
4. Apply the knowledge of different probability distributions to solve problems in
queuing theory.
UNIT I
Probability and Distributions
Sample space and events, Probability- The axioms of probability, some elementary
theorems, conditional probability, Baye’s theorem. Random variables - discrete and
continuous. Distributions - Binomial, Poisson and Normal distributions–related
properties.
UNIT II
Correlation and Regression
Coefficient of correlation, regression coefficient, the lines of regression, rank correlation
UNIT III
Sampling Distributions and Testing of Hypothesis
Sampling distributions, sampling distribution of means (σ known and unknown). Point
estimation, interval estimation. Tests of hypothesis - null hypothesis, alternate
hypothesis, type I, type II errors, critical region. Inferences concerning means and
proportions- Large samples- test of hypothesis for single mean and difference between
the means. Test of hypothesis for the proportions- single and difference between the
proportions, confidence interval for the mean and proportions.
67
UNIT IV
Tests of significance- Small samples
Tests of significance-t distributions, confidence interval for the t- distribution, F-
distributions and Chi square distributions.
UNIT V
Queuing Theory
Queuing theory -Arrival process and service process- Pure birth and death process,
M/M/1 model with finite and infinite capacities, M/M/C model with infinite capacity.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Probability and Statistics for Engineers – Richard .A.Johanson, 1995, 5th
Edition, Prentice-Hall.
2. Some problems in the theory of queues. -Kendall, D. G. (1951) Journal of the
Royal Statistical Society, Series B, 13, 151–185..
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Applied Statistics for Engineers-Jay.L.Devore, Nicholas. R.Famum,
Jimmy.A.Doi, 3rd Edition, Cengage
2. An Introduction to Probability Theory and Its Applications- Feller, W. (1968–
Volume I and II. 2nd edn. John Wiley Inc., New York, NY.
3. The Single Server Queue -Cohen, J. W. (1969) .Wiley Interscience, New
York, NY.
68
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B. Tech CSE, IT – I SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13EEE078) ELEMENTS OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
Course Objectives:
1. To understand the basic concepts of circuit analysis
2. To analyze electrical circuits using network theorems and analysis of AC
circuits
3. To learn principle of operation, construction and characteristics of various
electronic devices.
4. To know about different applications of these devices
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
1. Apply various network reduction techniques for electrical circuit analysis
2. Analyze electrical circuits using network theorems
3. Use semiconductor devices in real life applications
4. Analyze and Design applications using these devices
UNIT-I
Introduction to Electrical Circuits: Circuit Concept – Types of Elements– Types of
sources-R-L-C parameters-Kirchhoff’s laws- network reduction techniques–series,
parallel, series parallel circuits, Source transformation–Mesh and Nodal analysis
UNIT-II
Network Theorems: Star-delta transformation, Super position, Reciprocity,
Thevenins’s, Norton’s, Maximum power transfer theorems-Application of theorems for
the analysis of DC circuits.
UNIT-III
AC Circuits: Root mean square, average values, form factor and peak factor of
alternating currents and voltages, Response of R-L, R-C and R-L-C circuits with
sinusoidal excitation-Concept of reactance, impedance, phase and phase difference,
Power factor, Real and reactive powers.
Diodes, Rectifiers and Filters:p-n Junction Diode, symbol, Diode Equation, Volt-
Ampere Characteristics, Half wave Rectifier, Full wave rectifier, Bridge Rectifier,
(Simple problems), Zener Diode, LED, LCD, Photo Diode.
UNIT-IV
Bipolar Junction Transistor (BJT)
NPN, PNP transistor Construction and principle of operation, symbol, input and output
characteristics of transistor in Common Base, Common Emitter and Common
69
Collector Configurations, Relation between alpha, beta and gamma, Transistor as an
Amplifier.
UNIT-V
Introduction to Amplifies
Definition of voltage gain, current gain, input resistance and output resistance in
amplifies Concept of feedback, classification of feedback amplifies, General
characteristics of negative feedback amplifies, effect of feedback on amplifies,
Introduction to feedback topologies, Barkhausen criteria, principle of operation of LC
and crystal oscillators
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Basic Electrical Engineering - By M.S.Naidu and S. Kamakshiah – TMH.
2. Electrical circuits by Sudhkar and Shyam Mohan-TMH
3. Electronic Devices and Circuits – J.Millman, C.C.Halkias, and SatyabrathaJit,
Tata McGraw Hill, 2nd Edition, 2007.
4. Electronic Devices and Circuits – R.L. Boylestad and Louis Nashelsky,
Pearson/Prentice Hall, 11th Edition, 2006.
5. Electronic Devices and Circuits – David A Bell, Oxford University Press, 5th
edition (2008)
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Electrical and Electronic Technology – By Hughes- Pearson Education.
2. Electrical engineering fundamentals by Vincent Del Toro
3. Electrical Circuit Theory and Technology – by John Bird, Elsevier Science &
Technology, 2007
4. Integrated Electronics - J.Millman and Christos.C.Halkias, and Satyabratha,
Jit Tata McGraw Hill, 2nd Edition, 2008.
5. Electronic Devices and Circuits – T.F. Bogart Jr., J.S.Beasley and G.Rico,
Pearson Education, 6th Edition, 2004.
6. Electronic Devices and Circuits- S. S Salivahanan, N. Sursh Kumar, A.
Vallava Raju, 2nd Edition., TMH, 2010
70
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B. Tech CSE, IT – I SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13CSE003) DIGITAL LOGIC DESIGN
Course Objectives:
This course covers the basics of digital logic circuits and design:
1. Boolean algebra and number systems introduces the student to the
fundamentals of combinational logic design, their minimization(using K-
Maps/Tabulation Methods), this enables building of PLD's
2. Hypothesize sequential circuits (both synchronous and asynchronous).
3. Students are provided with an opportunity to implement all the logic circuits
using VHDL.
4. Design, simulate, build, and debug combinational and sequential digital circuits
based on an abstract functional specification.
5. Understand the basic internal workings of the central processing unit of a
computer and its interface with memory and input/output subsystems.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of thiscourse,studentsshould beable to:
1. To apply the principles of Boolean algebra to manipulate and minimize logic
expressions.
2. To understand the functionalities, and minimization techniques using of all
logical gates(NAND, NOR, AND, NOR, NOT, XOR,XNOR…)
3. To hypothesize combinational circuits using adders, decoders, Multiplexers,
Encoders, De-Multiplexers, ROM , RAM, PLD’s
4. Understand operation of sequential(sync. & async.) circuits (flip-flops, counters,
registers, and register) and in analyzing the operation of sequential circuits
along with hazards handling
5. For all the above concepts students will be able to simulate the functionalities
using Verilog HDL with the support of the Lab.
UNIT-I
NUMBERS SYSTEMS AND CODES:-
Review of number systems- number base conversion-binary arithmetic- binary
weighted and non-weighted codes – Complements-Signed binary numbers-Error
Detection and Correcting Codes-Binary Logic.
71
UNIT-II
BOOLEAN ALGEBRA and GATE LEVEL MINIMIZATION:-
Postulates and theorems- representation of switching functions-SOP and POS forms –
Canonical forms-digital logic gates –Karnaugh Maps –minimization using three
variable, four variable and five variable K-Maps, Don’t Care Conditions- NAND and
NOR implementation , Other Two-Level Implementation –Exclusive –OR function -
Integrated Circuits-Hardware Description Language(HDL)
UNIT-III
DESIGN OF COMBINATIONAL CIRCUITS:-
Tabular Minimization- Combinational Circuits- Analysis and Design Procedure- Binary
adder and subtractors – Carry Look-ahead adder-Decimal adder-Binary multiplier-
magnitude comparator-BCD adder- Decoders- Encoders-Multiplexers-Random Access
Memory-Read Only Memory-Programmable Logic Array-Programmable Array Logic -
HDL for Combinational Circuits
UNIT-IV
DESIGN OF SEQUENTIAL CIRCUITS:-
Combinational Vs Sequential Circuits – Latches-Flip Flops-RS flip flop, JK flip flop, T
flip flop, D flip flop, Master-Slave Flip flop- Flip Flops excitation functions –Conversion
of one flip flop to another flip flop- Asynchronous Vs Synchronous circuits-Analysis of
clocked sequential circuits-State Table-State Diagram-State Reduction and State
Assignment-Mealy and Moore Machines-capabilities and limitations of Finite State
Machine-State equivalence and machine minimization-Design of synchronous
counters- Ripple Counters-Asynchronous counters-Registers-Shift Registers- HDL for
Sequential circuits.
UNIT-V
ASYNCHRONOUS SEQUENTIAL LOGIC:-
Introduction-Analysis Procedure, Circuits with Latches, Design Procedure-Reduction of
state and flow Tables – Race Free State Assignment Hazards, Design examples.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. DIGITAL DESIGN, Third Edition, M.Morris Mano, Pearson Education/PHI.
2. FUNDAMENTALS OF LOGIC DESIGN, Roth, 5th Edition,Thomson.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Switching and Finite Automata Theory by Zvi. Kohavi, Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Switching and Logic Design, C.V.S. Rao, Pearson Education
3. Digital Principles and Design Donald D.Givone, Tata McGraw Hill, Edition.
4. Fundamentals of Digital Logic & Micro Computer Design, 5TH Edition, M.
Rafiquzzaman John Wiley
72
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B. Tech CSE, IT – I SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13CSE002) MATHEMATICAL FOUNDATIONS FOR COMPUTER SCIENCE
Course objectives:
1. Reason mathematically about basic data types and structures used in
computer algorithms and systems.
2. Distinguish rigorous definitions and conclusions from merely plausible ones.
3. Synthesize elementary proofs, especially proofs by induction.
4. Model and analyze computational processes using analytic and combinatorial
methods.
5. Apply different methods for solving recurrence relations.
Course outcomes:
On successful completion of this course, you will be able to
1. Understand the theory and techniques of mathematical logic, graphs and
algebraic systems.
2. Apply the knowledge and skills obtained to investigate and solve a variety of
discrete mathematical problems.
3. Communicate mathematical ideas
4. Learn the basic applications of set theory and relations.
5. Define the various methods for solving recurrence relations.
UNIT- I
Mathematical Logic: Statements and notations, Connectives, Well formed formulas,
Truth Tables, tautology, equivalence implication, Normal forms, Quantifiers, universal
quantifiers.
Rules of inference, Consistency, proof of contradiction, Automatic Theorem Proving,
Predicates: Predicative logic, Free & Bound variables.
UNIT- II
Set Theory: notations, inclusion and equality sets, operations on sets, venn diagrams.
Relations: Properties of binary Relations, equivalence, transitive closure, compatibility
and partial ordering relations, Hasse diagram. Functions: Inverse Function,
Composition of functions, recursive Functions. Algebraic structures: Algebraic systems,
73
Examples and general properties, Semi groups and monoids, groups, and sub groups,
Homomorphism, Isomorphism on groups and semi groups.
UNIT- III
Elementary Combinatorics: Basics of counting, Combinations & Permutations, with
repetitions, Constrained repetitions, Binomial Coefficients, Binomial and Multinomial
theorems, the principles of Inclusion – Exclusion, Pigeon hole principles and its
application.
UNIT- IV
Recurrence Relations: Generating Functions, Function of Sequences, Calculating
Coefficients of generating functions, Recurrence relations, Solving recurrence relation
by substitution and Generating functions, the method of Characteristic roots, solution of
Inhomogeneous Recurrence Relations.
UNIT- V
Graph Theory: Representation of Graphs, DFS, BFS, Spanning Trees, Planar Graphs.
Graph Theory and Applications: Basic Concepts, Isomorphism and Sub graphs, Multi
graphs and Euler circuits, Hamiltonian graphs, Chromatic Numbers.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Discrete mathematical structures with applications to computer science
,J.P.Trembly ,R.Manohar, Tata M c Graw Hill.
2. Elements of Discrete Mathematics- A Computer Oriented Approach, C.L.Liu,
D.P. Mohapatra, 3rdedition, Tata M c Graw Hill.
3. ” Discrete Mathematics for Computer Scientists & Mathematicians,” Second
edition, J.L.Mott, A. Kandel, T.P. Baker, PHI
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Discrete Mathematics and its Applications, 5th edition, Kenneth.H.Rosen, TMH.
2. Discrete Mathematical Structures Theory and applications, Mallik and Sen,
Cengage.
3. Discrete Mathematics with Applications, Thomas Koshy, Elsevier.
4. Logic and Discrete Mathematics, Grass Man and Tremblay,Pearson Education
74
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B. Tech CSE, IT – I SEM L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13CMS001) BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Course objectives
1. To explain different forms of organizing private and public sector business
enterprises and to analyze the significance of Business Economics in solving
the problems of business enterprise. Also to define and analyze the concepts
of Demand, Elasticity of Demand and Demand Forecasting Methods.
2. To analyze the various types of costs and to determine the level of output at
which there is neither profit nor loss. To estimate capital requirements and to
describe various sources of mobilizing funds. Also to identify least cost
combinations of inputs produce desired quantity of output.
3. To describe the features of different market structure and pricing strategies.
4. To explain the basic accounting concepts and conventions. To elaborate the
importance of finance function for evaluating the economic status of a
business unit.
Course Outcomes
1. Select the suitable form of business organization which meets the
requirement of selected business also perform decision – making function
effectively in an uncertain frame work by applying concepts of Managerial
Economics. Meet and manipulate the demand efficiently and plan the future
course of action.
2. Apply right kind cost to reduce cost by paying attention towards the costs
which can be reduced. Take decision whether to buy or produce? Reduce the
cost of capital by selecting best source of fund mobilization and select best
investment opportunity which yields higher rate of return.
3. Fix the right price which can best meets the predetermined objectives of the
business firm under different market conditions. Able to select best
combination of inputs to produce required quantity of output.
4. Prepare books of accounts and know over all financial position of the
business enterprise which enables the concerned to take appropriate
measures to improve the situation. Also interpret the financial position from
difference angles and initiates the measures/ efforts in that direction.
75
UNIT - I
BUSINESS AND NEW ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
Characteristic features of business; Features and evaluation of sole proprietorship;
Partnership; Joint stock company; Public enterprises and their types; Changing
business environment in post- liberalization scenario.
UNIT - II
INTRODUCTION TO BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND DEMAND ANALYSIS
Definition; Nature and scope of managerial economics - demand analysis
determinants; Law of demand and its exceptions.
ELASTICITY OF DEMAND AND DEMAND FORECASTING
Definition; Types; Measurement and significance of elasticity of demand; Demand
forecasting; Factors governing demand forecasting; Methods of demand forecasting –
(survey methods, statistical methods, Expert opinion method, Test marketing,
Controlled experiments, and Judgmental approach to demand forecasting).
UNIT - III
COST ANALYSIS
Cost concepts - Opportunity cost, Fixed vs. Variable costs, Explicit costs vs. Implicit
costs, and Out of pocket costs vs. Imputed costs; Break-even analysis (BEA) -
determination of break-even point (simple problems), managerial significance, and
limitations of BEA.
CAPITAL AND CAPITAL BUDGETING
Capital and its significance; Types of capital; Estimation of fixed and working capital
requirements; Methods and sources of raising finance.
Nature and scope of capital budgeting; Features of capital budgeting proposals;
Methods of capital budgeting - payback method, Accounting Rate of Return (ARR), and
Net Present Value method (simple problems)
UNIT - IV
THEORY OF PRODUCTION
Production function - isoquants and isocosts, least cost combination of inputs, and laws
of returns; Internal and external economies of scale.
MARKET STRUCTURES
Types of competition; Features of perfect competition, Monopoly, and Monopolistic
competition; Price-output determination in case of perfect competition and Monopoly.
PRICING POLICIES AND METHODS
Cost plus pricing; Marginal cost pricing; Sealed bid pricing; Going rate pricing, Limit
pricing, Market skimming pricing, Penetration pricing, Two-part pricing, Block pricing,
Bundling pricing, Peak load pricing, Cross subsidization.
UNIT V
76
INTRODUCTION TO FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING
Double-entry book keeping; Journal; Ledger; Trial balance; Final accounts - trading
account, profit and loss account, and balance sheet with simple adjustments.
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS THROUGH RATIOS
Computation; Analysis and interpretation of liquidity ratios - current ratios, and quick
ratio; Activity ratios - Inventory Turnover ratio, and Debtor Turnover ratio; Capital
structure ratios – Debt-Equity ratio, and Interest Coverage Ratio; Profitability ratios -
Gross profit Ratio, Net Profit Ratio, Operating Ratio, P/E ratio, and EPs.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Managerial Economics and Financial Analysis, Aryasri, TMH, 2009.
2. Managerial Economics, Varshney & Maheswari: Sultan Chand, 2009.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Financial AccouFnting for Management, Ambriah Gupta, Pearson Education,
New Delhi, 2010.
2. Managerial Economics, H.Craig Peterson & W. Cris Lewis, PHI, 2010.
77
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B. Tech CSE, IT – I SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13ITD003) ADVANCED DATA STRUCTURES THROUGH C++
Course Objectives:
.
1. Understand the various features object oriented programming.
2. Identify classes, objects, members of a class and their relationship needed for
a specific problem.
3. To apply ADT concepts using templates.
4. Demonstrate data structure problem solutions, search and retrieval of
information from text data.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. Develop programs using object oriented features in C++.
2. To implement algorithms into programming code.
3. Design applications using data structures such that optimizing searching.
4. Perform text processing operations using pattern matching algorithms.
.
UNIT- I
C++ Class Overview, Class Definition, Objects, Class Members, Access Control, Class
Scope, Constructors and destructors, parameter passing methods, Inline functions,
static class members, this pointer, friend functions, dynamic memory allocation and de-
allocation (new and delete), exception handling.
UNIT- II
Function Overloading, Operator Overloading, Generic Programming- Function and
class templates, Inheritance basics, base and derived classes, inheritance types, base
class access control, runtime polymorphism using virtual functions, abstract classes,
I/O streams.
UNIT -III
Review of basic data structures, the list ADT, Stack ADT, Queue ADT, Implementation
using template classes in C++. Priority Queues – Definition, ADT, Realizing a Priority
Queue using Heaps, Definition, insertion, Deletion, Heap sort,
UNIT- IV
78
Dictionaries, linear list representation, Skip list representation, operations insertion,
deletion and searching, hash table representation, hash functions, collision resolution-
separate chaining, open addressing-linear probing, quadratic probing, double hashing,
rehashing, extendible hashing, comparison of hashing and skip lists. Text Processing –
Pattern matching algorithms-Brute Force, Knuth-Morris-Pratt algorithm, Tries –
Standard tries, Compressed tries, Suffix tries.
UNIT- V
Trees-Basic Terminology, Binary tree ADT, array and linked representations,
traversals, threaded binary trees, Binary Search Trees: Definition, ADT,
Implementation, Operations of Searching, Insertion and Deletion. AVL Trees,
Definition, Operations-Insertion and Searching. B-Trees, Definition, B-Tree of order m,
insertion, deletion and searching.
Graphs: Basic terminology, representations of Graphs, Graph search methods – DFS,
BFS.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Data structures, Algorithms and Applications in C++, S.Sahni, University
Press (India) Pvt.Ltd, 2nd edition, Universities Press Orient Longman Pvt. Ltd.
2. Data structures and Algorithms in C++, Michael T.Goodrich, R.Tamassia
and Mount, Wiley student edition, John Wiley and Sons.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Data structures and Algorithm Analysis in C++, Mark Allen Weiss, Pearson
Education. Ltd., Second Edition.
2. Data structures using C and C++, Langsam, Augenstein and Tanenbaum,
PHI.
3. Problem solving with C++, The OOP, Fourth edition, W.Savitch, Pearson
Education.
4. Data Structures and Algorithms Using C++, Ananda Rao Akepogu,Radhika
Raju Palagiri.
79
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B. Tech CSE, IT – I SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13CSE102) DIGITAL LOGIC DESIGN LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
The objectives of this course are to:
1. Introduce the concept of digital and binary systems
2. Be able to design and analyze combinational logic circuits.
3. Be able to design and analyze sequential logic circuits.
4. Understand the basic software tools for the design and implementation of
digital circuits and systems.
5. Reinforce theory and techniques taught in the classroom through
experiments and projects in the laboratory.
Course Outcomes:
A student who successfully fulfils the course requirements will have demonstrated:
1. An ability to operate laboratory equipment.
2. An ability to construct, analyse, and troubleshoot simple combinational
and sequential circuits.
3. An ability to design and troubleshoot a simple state machine.
4. An ability to measure and record the experimental data, analyse the
results, and prepare a formal laboratory report.
5. An ability to differentiate combinational and sequential circuits
EXPERIMENTS
Programming can be done by using Verilog compiler and verification by simulation with
any of the front end tools.
1. HDL code to realize all the logic gates.
2. Design of 2-to -4 decoder.
3. Design of 8-to-3 encoder
4. Design of 8-to-1 Multiplexer
5. Design of 1 to 8 Demultiplexer
6. Design of comparator
7. Design of half adder and full adder.
8. Design of half subtractor and full Subtractor.
9. Design of flip flops: SR, D, JK, T.
10. Design of code converters.
11. Design of 4-bit Asynchronous counter.
12. Design of 4-bit synchronous counter
80
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B. Tech CSE, IT – I SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13EEE178) ELEMENTS OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. To understand the basic concepts of circuit analysis
2. To analyze electrical circuits using network theorems and analysis of AC
circuits
3. To learn principle of operation, construction and characteristics of various
electronic devices.
4. To know about different applications of these devices
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
1. To apply basic network theorems for solving DC electrical networks.
2. Analyze various Electrical networks using Kirchhoff’s laws.
3. To use the electronic devices in real time applications
4. Calculate h-parameters of BJT under various configurations.
PART A:
1. Verification of KVL and KCL
2. Verification of Superposition theorem
3. Verification of Reciprocity theorem
4. Verification of Thevenin’s theorem
5. Verification of Norton’s theorem
6. Verification of Maximum Power Transfer Theorem
PART B:
1. Forward and Reverse Bias V-I characteristics of PN junction Diode.
2. Zener diode V-I characteristics
3. Half Wave and Full Wave rectifier without filters.
4. Characteristics of a BJT under CE configuration.
5. Characteristics of a BJT under CB configuration.
6. Frequency response of CE Amplifier.
81
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B. Tech CSE, IT – I SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13ITD103) ADVANCED DATA STRUCTURES THROUGH C++ LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. To implement various object oriented concepts like abstraction, encapsulation,
polymorphism, inheritance etc.
2. To demonstrate exception handling mechanism.
3. To implement algorithms into programming code.
4. To implement dictionaries, various data structures like stacks, queues, trees,
grphs using templates.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. Design applications using object oriented features.
2. Design applications using linear and non linear data structures.
3. Analyze performance of various data structures.
4. Perform text processing operations using pattern matching algorithms
TASK 1
Implementation of C++ programs using - Constructors, friend functions, Parameter
passing methods, this pointer, inline functions, static members, dynamic memory
allocation, exception handling.
TASK 2
Implementation of C++ programs using: Function over Loading, Operator Overloading,
Function and class templates, inheritance types, runtime polymorphism using virtual
functions, abstract classes, streams I/O.
TASK 3
Write C++ programs to implement the following using an array
a) Stack ADT b) Queue ADT c) Linear list
TASK 4
Write C++ programs to implement the following using linked list
a) Stack ADT b) Queue ADT c) Linear list
TASK 5
Write C++ programs to implement the following using an array
a) Circular Queue ADT b) Dequeue ADT
TASK 6
Write C++ programs to implement the following using linked list
82
a) Circular Queue ADT b) Dequeue ADT c) Double linked list
TASK 7
Write C++ programs to implement the following on Binary search tree i) Insertions
ii) Deletions
iii) Search
TASK 8
Write C++ programs to implement Binary tree traversals (preorder, inorder,
postorder)
TASK 9
Write C++ programs to implement bfs and dfs for a given graph
TASK 10
Write C++ programs to implement
a) Heap sort b) merge sort
TASK 11
Write C++ programs to implement all functions of dictionary (ADT) using hashing.
TASK 12
Write C++ programs to implement Brute Force and Knuth –Morris-Pratt pattern
matching algorithm
83
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech CSE, IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13CSE004)FORMAL LANGUAGES AND AUTOMATA THEORY
Course Objectives:
1. To introduce the theoretical foundations of computer science concerning– the
relationships between languages and machines, the inherent limits of what
can be computed, and the inherent efficiency of solving problems.
2. To determine a language’s location in the Chomsky hierarchy (regular sets,
context-free, context-sensitive, and recursively enumerable languages).
3. To convert among equivalently powerful notations for a language, including
among DFAs, NFAs, and regular expressions, and between PDAs and CFGs.
4. To discuss the applications of theory to other areas of computer science such
as algorithms, programming languages, compilers, natural language
translation, operating systems, and software verification.
5. To build the foundation for students to pursue research in the areas of
automata theory, formal languages, and computational power of machines
Course Outcomes:
At the end of this course the student should be able to
1. Understand the theory of automata.
2. Classify computational devices according to their computational power, and
tools which will allow us to tell if a device is powerful enough to solve a given
computational problem.
3. Understand the concept of the grammar and concept of programming
language.
4. Understand Turing machine concept and in turn the technique applied in
computers.
5. Classify P vs NP- Class problems and NP-Hard vs NP-complete problems.
UNIT-I
Fundamentals: strings, Alphabet, Language, Operations, Chomsky hierarchy of
languages, Finite state machine Definitions, finite automation model, acceptance of
strings and languages, DFA and NFA, transition diagrams and language recognizers.
NFA with ε transitions –Equivalence between NFA with and without ε transitions, NFA
to DFA conversion, minimization FSM, equivalence between two FSM’s, Output
machines- Moore and Mealy machine.
84
UNIT –II
Regular Languages : Regular Sets , Regular Expressions , identity Rules,
Constructing Finite automata for a given regular expressions, Conversion of Finite
automata to regular expressions, Pumping lemma of regular sets , closure properties of
regular sets (proofs not required). Regular Grammars – right linear and left linear
grammars, equivalence between regular grammar and FA,
UNIT –III
Context Free Grammar, derivation trees, sentential forms, right most and left most
derivations of strings. Ambiguity in Context frees Grammars. Minimization of Context
free grammars, CNF, GNF, Pumping Lemma for Context Free Languages.
Enumeration of properties of CFL (proofs omitted).
Push Down Automata- definition, model, acceptance of CFL, Acceptance by final state
and acceptance by empty state and its equivalence, Equivalence of CFL and PDA
(proofs not required), Introduction to DCFL and DPDA.
UNIT –IV
Turing Machine: Definition, model, Design of TM, computable functions, recursively
enumerable languages. Church’s hypothesis, counter machine, types of Turing
Machines (proofs not required)
UNIT –V
Computability Theory: Linear Bounded Automata and context sensitive languages,
LR (0) grammar, decidability of problems, Universal TM, Un decidable problems about
Turing Machine – Post’s Correspondence Problem - The classes P and NP.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. H.E.Hopcroft, R.Motwani and J.D Ullman, “Introduction to Automata Theory,
Languages and Computations”, Second Edition, Pearson Education, 2003.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. H.R.Lewis and C.H.Papadimitriou, “Elements of The theory of Computation”,
Second Edition, Pearson Education/PHI, 2003
2. J.Martin, “Introduction to Languages and the Theory of Computation”, Third
Edition, TMH, 2003.
3. Micheal Sipser, “Introduction of the Theory and Computation”, Thomson
Brokecole, 1997.
85
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech CSE, IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13ECE082)DATA COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
Course Objectives:
1. To Built an understanding of the fundamental Concepts of Analog & Digital
Communications
2. To learn about Various factors influencing the design of Data Communication
Systems
3. To understand details and functionality of data communication systems and
Protocols
4. To learn about digital transmissions and cellular telephone systems
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student must be able to:
1. Analyze factors affecting performance of data communication system
2. Implement various modulation techniques in a communication system.
3. Design different data communication systems and Data Communication
Equipment.
4. Design different multiplexing techniques and 1G,2G telephone systems.
UNIT- I
INTRODUCTION TO DATA COMMUNICATIONS AND NETWORKING: Standards
Organizations for Data Communications, Layered Network Architecture, Open Systems
Interconnection, Data Communications Circuits, Serial and parallel Data Transmission,
Data communications Circuit Arrangements, Data communications Networks, Alternate
Protocol Suites.
SIGNALS, NOISE, MODULATION, AND DEMODULATION: Signal Analysis,
Electrical Noise and Signal-to-Noise Ratio, Analog Modulation Systems, Information
Capacity, Bits, Bit Rate, Baud, and M-ary Encoding, Digital Modulation.
UNIT- II
METALLIC CABLE TRANSMISSION MEDIA: Metallic Transmission Lines,
Transverse Electromagnetic Waves, Characteristics of Electromagnetic Waves,
Transmission Line Classifications, Metallic Transmission Line Types, Metallic
Transmission Line Equivalent Circuit, Wave Propagation on Metallic Transmission
Lines, Metallic Transmission Line Losses.
OPTICAL FIBER TRANSMISSION MEDIA: Advantages of Optical Fiber Cables,
Disadvantages of Optical Fiber Cables, Electromagnetic spectrum, Optical Fiber
Communications System Block Diagram, Optical Fiber construction, The Physics of
Light, Velocity of Propagation, Propagation of Light Through an Optical fiber Cable,
86
Optical Fiber Modes and Classifications, Optical Fiber Comparison, Losses in Optical
Fiber Cables, Light sources, Light Detectors, Lasers.
UNIT- III
DIGITAL TRANSMISSION: Pulse Modulation, Pulse code Modulation, Dynamic
Range, Signal Voltage –to-Quantization Noise Voltage Ration, Linear Versus Nonlinear
PCM Codes, Companding, PCM Line Speed, Delta Modulation PCM and Differential
PCM.
MULTIPLEXING AND T CARRIERS: Time- Division Multiplexing, T1 Digital Carrier
System, North American Digital Multiplexing Hierarchy, Digital Line Encoding, T Carrier
systems, European Time- Division Multiplexing, Statistical Time – Division Multiplexing,
Frame Synchronization, Frequency- Division Multiplexing, Wavelength- Division
Multiplexing, Synchronous Optical Network
UNIT -IV
CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEMS: First- Generation Analog Cellular Telephone,
Personal Communications system, Second-Generation Cellular Telephone Systems,
N-AMPS, Digital Cellular Telephone, Interim Standard, North American Cellular and
PCS Summary, Global system for Mobile Communications, Personal Communications
Satellite System.
UNIT- V
DATA COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT: Digital Service Unit and Channel Service
Unit, Voice- Band Data Communication Modems, Bell Systems- Compatible Voice-
Band Modems, Voice- Band Modem Block Diagram, Voice- Band Modem
Classifications, Asynchronous Voice-Band Modems, Synchronous Voice-Band
Modems, Modem Synchronization, ITU-T Voice- Band Modem Specifications, 56K
Modems, Modem Control: The AT Command Set, Cable Modems, Probability of Error
and Bit Error Rate
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Introduction to Data Communications and Networking, Wayne Tomasi,
Pearson Education.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Data Communications and Networking, Behrouz A Forouzan, Fourth
Edition.TMH.
2. Computer Communications and Networking Technologies, Gallow, Second
Edition Thomson Computer Networking and Internet, Fred Halsll, Lingana
Gouda Kulkarni, Fifth Edition, Pearson Education
87
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech CSE, IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13ITD004)COMPUTER ORGANIZATION
Course Objectives:
1. This course is used to master the basic hardware and software issues of
computer organization.
2. The students are expected to know the inner workings of processor, memory
and I/O modules.
3. Understand how parallel processing is achieved using pipeline technique.
4. Ability to analyze the hardware and software issues related to computers and
the interface between the two.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. Develop the ability and confidence to use the fundamentals of computer
organization as a tool in the engineering of digital systems.
2. An ability to identify, formulate, and solve hardware and software computer
engineering problems using sound computer engineering principles
3. The students are able to work out the tradeoffs involved in designing a
modern computer.
4. Design tiny digital systems.
UNIT- I
BASIC STRUCTURE OF COMPUTERS: Computer types, functional unit, basic
operational concepts, bus structures, multi processors and multi computers, multi
tasking. Register Transfer Language and Micro operations: Register Transfer
language, Register Transfer, Arithmetic Micro operations, Logic Micro operations, Shift
Micro operations, Arithmetic logic shift unit.
UNIT- II
BASIC COMPUTER ORGANIZATION AND DESIGN: Instruction Codes, Computer
Registers, computer instructions – instruction Cycle, memory reference instructions,
input-output and interrupt. Central Processing Unit: Stack organization, instruction
formats, addressing modes, data transfer and manipulation, program control, CISC and
RISC.
UNIT- III
MICROPROGRAMMED CONTROL: Control memory, address sequencing, micro
program example, design of control unit, hardwired control, micro programmed control.
88
THE MEMORY ORGANIZATION: Memory hierarchy, Main Memory, Cache memory,
performance considerations, virtual memory, secondary storage.
UNIT- IV
COMPUTER ARITHMETIC: Addition and subtraction, multiplication algorithms,
Division algorithms, floating-point arithmetic operations, Decimal arithmetic unit,
Decimal arithmetic operations.
INPUT-OUTPUT ORGANIZATION: Peripheral devices, input-output interface,
asynchronous data transfer, modes of transfer, priority interrupt, direct memory access.
UNIT- V
PIPELINE AND VECTOR PROCESSING: Parallel Processing, Pipelining, Arithmetic
Pipeline, Instruction pipeline, RISC pipeline Vector Processing, Array Processors.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Computer System Architecture – M. Morris Mano, III edition, Pearson/PHI
2. Computer organization – Carl Hamacher, Zvonks Vranesic, Safeazaky, V
edition, Mc Graw Hill
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Computer Organization and Architecture – William Stallings Sixth edition,
Pearson/PHI
2. Fundamentals of Computer Organization and Design, Sivarama Dandamudi
3. Computer Architecture a Quantitative approach, John L. Hennessy and David
A Patterson, Fourth edition Elsevier.
4. Computer Architecture Fundamentals and Principles of Computer Design,
Joseph D/ Dumas II, BS Publication
89
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech CSE, IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13CSE006) DESIGN AND ANALYSIS OF ALGORITHMS
Course Objectives:
1. Design and analysis of algorithms is a basis of computer science. The
objective of this course is to cover key techniques for designing and
analyzing algorithms. The topics include (but not limited to) (1) divide and
conquer, (2) dynamic programming, (3) greedy algorithms, (4) backtracking,
(5) branch and bound, (6) time and space complexity analysis, , and (7)
theory of NP.
2. Learning classic algorithms
3. How to devise correct and efficient algorithms for solving a given problem
4. How to validate/verify algorithms
Course outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. Describe and use major algorithmic techniques (divide-and-conquer, dynamic
programming, linear programming, greedy paradigm, graph algorithms) and
cite problems for which each technique is suitable.
2. Evaluate and compare different algorithms using worst-, average-, and best-
case analysis. Identify the complexity of problems.
3. Understand asymptotic notation, its properties and use in measuring
algorithm behavior
4. Determine asymptotic expressions for the worst-case execution time and
space requirements of algorithms and data structures.
UNIT -I
Introduction: Algorithm, Psuedo code for expressing algorithms, Performance
Analysis-Space complexity, Time complexity, Asymptotic Notation- Big oh notation,
Omega notation, Theta notation. Disjoint Sets- disjoint set operations, union and find
algorithms, spanning trees, connected components and biconnected components.
UNIT- II
Divide and conquer: General method , applications-Binary search, Quick sort, Merge
sort, Strassen’s matrix multiplication. Greedy method: General method, applications-
Job sequencing with dead lines, 0/1 knapsack problem, Minimum cost spanning trees,
Single source shortest path problem, Huffman Codes.
90
UNIT- III
Dynamic Programming: General method, Principle of optimality, applications-
Multistage graphs, Matrix chain multiplication, Optimal binary search trees, 0/1
knapsack problem, All pairs shortest path problem, Travelling sales person problem,
Reliability design.
UNIT- IV
Backtracking: General method, applications- Recursive Permutation Generator ,N-
queen problem, sum of subsets problem, Graph coloring, Hamiltonian cycles.
UNIT -V
Branch and Bound: General method, applications - Travelling sales person
problem,0/1 knapsack problem- LC Branch and Bound solution, FIFO Branch and
Bound solution. NP-Hard and NP-Complete problems: Basic concepts, non
deterministic algorithms, NP - Hard and NP Complete classes, Cook’s theorem.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Fundamentals of Computer Algorithms, Ellis Horowitz, Satraj Sahni and
Rajasekharam, Galgotia publications pvt. Ltd.
2. Introduction to Algorithms, second edition, T.H.Cormen, C.E.Leiserso
R.L.Rivest,and C.Stein, PHI Pvt. Ltd./ Pearson Education
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Algorithm Design: Foundations, Analysis and Internet examples
M.T.Goodrich and R.Tomassia,John wiley and sons.
2. Introduction to Design and Analysis of Algorithms A strategic approach
R.C.T.Lee, S.S.Tseng, R.C.Chang and T.Tsai, Mc Graw Hill.
3. Data structures and Algorithm Analysis in C++, Allen Weiss, Second edition,
Pearson education.
4. Design and Analysis of algorithms, Aho, Ullman and Hopcroft, Pearson
education.
5. Algorithms Richard Johnson baugh and Marcus Schaefer, Pearson
Education
91
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech CSE, IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13CSE005) DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Course objectıves:
1. To present an introduction to database management systems (DBMS) and
relational data model.
2. To provide an emphasis on how to organize, maintain and retrieve
information efficiently and effectively from a DBMS.
3. To introduce the concepts of transactions and transaction processing
4. To present the issues and techniques relating to concurrency and recovery in
multi-user database environments
Course outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students are expected to:
1. Understand the fundamental concepts of database management. These
concepts include aspects of database design, database languages, and
database-system implementation.
2. The students will be able to design and query databases, as well as
understand the internals of databases and define basic functions of DBMS &
RDBMS.
3. Describe database development process and to Apply the Relational
Database Model to understand the Logical and Physical aspects of the
DBMS architecture.
4. Analyze database models & entity relationship models.Draw the E-R
diagram for the given case study.
5. Use Structured Query Language (SQL) with complex queries.
UNIT-I
Introduction to Databases and Database Management System - Database system
Applications - Advantages of DBMS over File System - Data Models – Instances and
schema - View of Data - Database Languages -DDL-DML - Database Users and
Administrator - Database System Structure.
UNIT-II
Database Design and ER diagrams – Attributes and Entity Sets – Relationships and
Relationship Sets – Constraints - Keys - Design Issues - Entity-Relationship Diagram-
Weak Entity Sets - Extended E-R Features - Database Design with ER model -
Database Design for Banking Enterprise
92
UNIT – III
Introduction to the Relational Model – Structure of RDBMS - Integrity Constraints over
Relations – Enforcing Integrity Constraints – Querying Relational Data - Relational
Algebra and Calculus.
Introduction to SQL- Data Definition commands, Data Manipulation Commands, Basic
Structure, Set operations Aggregate Operations - Join operations - Sub queries and
correlated queries, SQL functions , views ,Triggers, Embedded SQL.
UNIT – IV
Functional Dependencies– Introduction , Basic Definitions, Trivial and Non trivial
dependencies, closure of a set of dependencies, closure of attributes, irreducible set of
dependencies- Schema Refinement in Database Design- Problems Caused by
Redundancy – Decompositions – Problem Related to Decomposition –- Lossless Join
Decomposition – Dependency Preserving Decomposition - FIRST, SECOND, THIRD
Normal Forms – BCNF –– Multivalued Dependencies – Fourth Normal Form.
UNIT-V
Transaction concept- Transaction state- Implementation of atomicity and Durability-
Concurrent executions – Serializability, Recoverability
Lock Based Protocols, Timestamp Based Protocols, Validation Based Protocols,
Multiple Granularity, Dead Lock Handling – Failure Classification – Storage Structure -
Recovery and Atomicity- Log Based recovery – Recovery with concurrent transactions
– Checkpoints .
File Organization – Organization of records in file - Data Dictionary Storage – Indexing
and Hashing – Basic Concepts , Ordered Indices,B+Tree Index files, B- tree index files
– Static Hashing – Dynamic Hashing – Comparision of Indexing with Hashing.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Database System Concepts, Silberschatz, Korth , Fifth Edition, McGraw hill (
1,2,3 & 5 Units)
2. Database Management Systems, Raghuramakrishnan, Johannes Gehrke,
TATA Mc Graw Hill (1,2,3 & 5 Units)
3. Introduction to Database Systems, C.J.Date, Pearson Education (4th Unit)
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Fundamentals of Database Systems, Elmasri Navrate Pearson Education
2. Data base Systems design, Implementation, and Management, Peter Rob &
Carlos Coronel 7th Edition.
93
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech CSE, IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13ITD005) JAVA PROGRAMMING
Course Objectives:
On completion, students will be able
1. To produce object-oriented solutions to a range of standard programming problems
2. They will be able to articulate and restructure programming objectives in the object-
oriented paradigm.
3. They will be informed with regard to the fundamental concepts and principles of
object-oriented programming
4. They will be able to apply these concepts in any programming language.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. Design/Develop Program
2. Implement Program
3. Test Program
4. Validate Program
UNIT-I
Fundamentals of Object Oriented programming: Object oriented paradigm - Basic
concepts of Object Oriented Programming - Benefits of OOP - Applications of OOP
Java Evolution: Java Features - How Java differs from C and C++ - Java and Internet
- Java and World Wide Web - Web Browsers - Hardware and Software Requirements -
Java Environment. Overview of Java Language: Simple Java Program - Java Program
Structure - Java Tokens- Java Statements - Implementing a Java Program - Java
Virtual Machine - Constants - Variables - Data types - Scope of Variables-Symbolic
Constants-Type Casting and type promotions – Operators, Operator Precedence and
Associativity - Control Statements – break - continue- Arrays-Multi dimensional arrays,
Wrapper Classes - Simple examples.
UNIT-II
Classes: Classes and Objects - Constructors – methods - this keyword – garbage
collection- finalize - Overloading methods and constructors - Access Control- Static
members – nested and inner classes – command line arguments - variable length
arguments.
Inheritance: Forms of inheritance – specialization, specification, construction,
extension, limitation, combination, benefits and costs of inheritance. Super uses- final -
94
polymorphism, method overriding - dynamic method dispatch –abstract classes –
exploring string class.
UNIT-III
Packages and Interfaces: Defining and accessing a package – understanding
CLASSPATH – access protection importing packages – Interfaces - Defining and
implementing an interface, Applying interfaces, Variables in interfaces and extended
interfaces. Exploring java.lang and java.util packages.
Exception Handling-Fundamentals, usage of try, catch, multiple catch clauses, throw,
throws and finally. Java Built in Exceptions and creating own exception subclasses.
UNIT - IVMultithreaded Programming: Java Thread life cycle model – Thread
creation - Thread Exceptions - Thread Priority – Synchronization - Messaging -
Runnable Interface - Interthread Communication - Deadlock - Suspending, Resuming
and stopping threads.
I/O Streams: File – Streams – Advantages - The stream classes – Byte streams –
Character streams.
Networks basics: Socket Programming - Proxy Servers - TCP/IP Sockets - Net
Address - URL - Datagram’s
UNIT – V
Applet Programming: How Applets differ from Applications - Applet Life Cycle -
Creating an Applet - Running the Applet- Designing a Webpage - Applet Tag - Adding
Applet to HTML file - More about Applet Tag - Passing parameters to Applets - Aligning
the display.
Event handling: basics of event handling, Event classes, Event Listeners, delegation
event model, handling mouse and keyboard events, adapter classes, AWT Class
hierarchy - AWT Controls - Layout Managers and Menus, limitations of AWT, Swing,
MVC architecture, components, containers, exploring swing.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. The Complete Reference Java J2SE 5th Edition, Herbert Schildt, TMH
Publishing Company Ltd, NewDelhi.
2. Big Java 2nd Edition, Cay Horstmann, John Wiley and Sons
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Java How to Program, Sixth Edition, H.M.Dietel and P.J.Dietel, Pearson
Education/PHI
2. Core Java 2, Vol 1, Fundamentals, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell,
Seventh Edition, Pearson Education.
3. Core Java 2, Vol 2, Advanced Features, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell,
Seventh Edition, Pearson Education.
95
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech CSE, IT– II SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13CSE103) DATA BASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. To provide a strong formal foundation in database concepts and a good
formal foundation on the relational model of data
2. To familiarize the students with the nuances of database environments
towards an information- oriented data-processing oriented framework
3. To present SQL and procedural interfaces to SQL comprehensively
4. To give an introduction to systematic database design approaches covering
conceptual design, logical design and an overview of physical design
5. To present the concepts and techniques relating to query processing by
SQLengines
Course outcomes:
At the end of this laboratory, the students should be able to:
1. Create, maintain and manipulate MySql Database.
2. Design and implement a database schema for a given problem-domain and
Normalize a database
3. Populate and query a database using SQL DML/DDL commands.
4. Declare and enforce integrity constraints on a database using a state-of-the-
art RDBMS
5. Programming PL/SQL including stored procedures, cursors and triggers.
Roadway Travels
"Roadway Travels" is in business since 1997 with several buses connecting different
places in India. Its main office is located in Hyderabad.
The company wants to computerize its operations in the following areas:
• Reservations and Ticketing
• Cancellations
Reservations & Cancellation:
Reservations are directly handled by booking office. Reservations can be made 30 days in
advance and tickets issued to passenger. One Passenger/person can book many tickets
(to his/her family).
Cancellations are also directly handed at the booking office.
In the process of computerization of Roadway Travels you have to design and develop
a Database which consists the data of Buses, Passengers, Tickets, and Reservation and
96
cancellation details. You should also develop query's using SQL to retrieve the data from the
database.
The above process involves many steps like
1. Analyzing the problem and identifying the Entities and Relationships
2. E-R Model
3. Relational Model
4. Normalization
5. Creating the database
6. Querying.
Students are supposed to work on these steps TASK wise and finally create a
complete "Database System" to Roadway Travels. Examples are given at every TASK for
guidance to students.
TASK 1: E-R Model
Analyze the problem carefully and come up with the entities in it. Identify what data has to
be persisted in the database. This contains the entities, attributes etc.
Identify the primary keys for all the entities. Identify the other keys like candidate keys, partial
keys, if any.
Note: The student is required to submit a document by writing the Entities and
Keys to the lab teacher.
TASK 2: Concept design with E-R Model
Relate the entities appropriately. Apply cardinalities for each relationship. Identify strong
entities and weak entities (if any). Indicate the type of relationships (total / partial). Try
to incorporate generalization, aggregation, specialization etc wherever required.
Note: The student is required to submit a document by drawing the E-R Diagram
to the lab teacher.
TASK 3: Relational Model
Represent all the entities (Strong, Weak) in tabular fashion. Represent relationships in a
tabular fashion. There are different ways of representing relationships as tables based on
the cardinality. Represent attributes as columns in tables or as tables based on the
requirement. Different types of attributes (Composite, Multi-valued, and Derived) have
different way of representation.
Note: The student is required to submit a document by Represent relationships in a
tabular fashion to the lab teacher.
TASK 4: Normalization
Database normalization is a technique for designing relational database tables to minimize
duplication of information and, in so doing, to safeguard the database against certain types
of logical or structural problems, namely data anomalies. For example, when multiple
instances of a given piece of information occur in a table, the possibility exists that these instances
will not be kept consistent when the data within the table is updated, leading to a loss of data
97
integrity. A table that is sufficiently normalized is less vulnerable to problems of this kind,
because its structure reflects the basic assumptions for when multiple instances of the
same information should be represented by a single instance only.
TASK 5: Practicing DDL and DML commands
Create all the normalized tables that are identified in TASK 4.
Insert data into the above tables.
TASK 6: Querying
In this TASK you are going to practice queries (along with sub queries) using ANY, ALL, IN,
Exists, NOT EXISTS, UNION, INTERSECT, Constraints etc.
Practice the following Queries:
1. Display unique PNR_no of all passengers.
2. Display all the names of male passengers.
3. Display the ticket numbers and names of all the passengers.
4. Find the ticket numbers of the passengers whose name start
with V and ends with 'h'.
5. Find the names of passengers whose age is between 30 and 45.
6. Display all the passengers names beginning with 'A'
7. Display the sorted list of passenger’s names.
TASK 7 Querying (continued...)
You are going to practice queries using Aggregate functions (COUNT, SUM, AVG, and MAX
and MIN), GROUP BY, HAVING and Creation and dropping of Views.
8. Write a Query to display the Information present in the Passenger and
cancellation tables. Hint: Use UNION Operator.
9. Display the number of days in a TASK on which the 9WO1 bus is
available.
10. Find number of tickets booked for each PNR_no using GROUP BY
CLAUSE. Hint: Use GROUP BY on PNR_No.
11. Find the distinct PNR numbers that are present.
12. Find the number of tickets booked by a passenger where the
number of seats is greater than 1. Hint: Use GROUP BY, WHERE
and HAVING CLAUSES.
13. Find the total number of cancelled seats.
14. Display the details of passengers who travelled within the last 3 months.
15. Create a view for the details of passengers who cancelled their tickets.
TASK 8: Create tables for the following schema.
Student (snum: integer, sname: string, major: string, level: string, age: integer)
Class (name: string, meets at: time, room: string, fid: integer)
Enrolled (snum: integer, cname: string)
Faculty (fid: integer, fname: string, deptid: integer)
98
TASK 9: Querying
1. Find the names of all Juniors (Level = JR) who are enrolled in a class taught
by I. Teacher.
2. Find the age of the oldest student who is either a History major or is enrolled
in a course taught by I. Teacher.
3. Find the names of all classes that either meet in room R128 or have 5 or
more students enrolled.
4. Find the names of all students who are enrolled in two classes that meet at
the same time.
5. ind the names of faculty members who teach in every room in which some
class is taught.
6. Find the names of faculty members for whom the combined enrollment of
the courses that they teach is less than 5
7. Print the Level and the average age of students for that Level, for each
Level.
8. Print the Level and the average age of students for that Level, for all Levels
except JR.
9. Print the Level and the average age of students for that Level, whose
average age is greater than 20.
10. Find the names of students who are enrolled in the maximum number of
classes.
11. Find the names of students who are not enrolled in any class.
12. Count the number of junior level students.
13. Display all the students whose names start with the letter “p”.
14. Display all the teachers whose names contain letter ‘a’ or ‘I’ in their names.
TASK 10: PL/SQL Programs
1. Program to find sum of first ‘n’ natural no.s
2. Program to find reverse of a number
3. Insert the values of areas of a circle into a table called areas taking radius
Values from 2 to 8.
TASK 11: Cursors
In this TASK you need to do the following: Declare a cursor that defines a result set.
Open the cursor to establish the result set. Fetch the data into local variables as needed
from the cursor, one row at a time. Close the cursor when done. Practice the following
programs using cursors.
1. Write a cursor program to retrieve the details of all students using cursors ( Use
students table in TASK 9)
99
2. Write a PL/SQL block to update the level of students from JL to “junior Level”
and SL to “senior Level”and insert a record in newlevel table.
3. Write a cursor program to display the details of Senior Level students.
TASK 12: Procedures
In this session you are going to learn Creation of stored procedure, Execution of
procedure and modification of procedure. Practice procedures using the above database.
TASK 13: Triggers
In this TASK you are going to work on Triggers. Creation of insert trigger, delete trigger,
update trigger. Practice triggers using the above database.
REFERENCES:
1. Introduction to SQL,Rick F.Vander Lans,Pearson education.
2. Oracle PL/SQL, B.Rosenzweig and E.Silvestrova,Pearson education.
3. Oracle PL/SQL Programming,Steven Feuerstein,SPD.
4. SQL & PL/SQL for Oracle 10g, Black Book, Dr.P.S.Deshpande,Dream Tech.
5. Oracle Database llg PL/SQL Programming,M.Laughlin.TMH.
6. SQL Fundamentals, J.Patrick,Pearson Education.
100
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech CSE, IT– II SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13CSE104) DESIGN AND ANALYSIS OF ALGORITHMS LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. To analyze worst-case running time of algorithms and understand
fundamental algorithmic problems.
2. To understand how asymptotic notation is used to provide a rough
classification of algorithms, how a number of algorithms for fundamental
problems in computer science and engineering work and compare with one
another.
3. To implement the methods of designing and analyzing algorithms
4. To study about various designing paradigms of algorithms for solving real
world problems.
Course Outcomes: At the end of this laboratory, the students should be able to:
1. To prove the correctness and analyze the running time of the basic
algorithms for those classic problems.
2. To design algorithms using the dynamic programming, greedy method,
Backtracking, Branch and Bound strategy that employ this strategy
3. To compare, contrast, and choose appropriate algorithmic design techniques
to present an algorithm that solves a given problem.
4. To develop the efficient algorithms for the new problem with suitable
designing techniques.
TASK 1:
1. A). WAP for Iterative and Binary Search.
B). Print all the nodes reachable from a given starting node in a digraph using
BFS method.
C). Check whether a given graph is connected or not using DFS method.
TASK 2:
2. A). Sort a given set of elements using the Quicksort method. Repeat the
TASK for different values of n, the elements can be read from a file or can be
generated using the random number generator.
B). Sort a given set of elements using the Mergeksort method. Repeat the
TASK for different values of n, the elements can be read from a file or can be
generated using the random number generator.
TASK 3:
3. A). WAP for Sreassen Matrix Multiplication.
101
B). Implement 0/1 Knapsack problem Using Greedy Method Algorithm.
TASK 4:
4. Find Minimum cost spanning tree using Prims & Kruskals algorithm.
TASK 5:
5. From a given vertex in a weighted connected graph, find shortest paths to
other vertices using Dijkstra's algorithm.
TASK 6:
6. WAP for Haffman Coding.
TASK 7:
7. WAP for Multi Stage Graph problem to find optimal path between source and
destination.
TASK 8:
8. Implement Matrix Chain Mulplication algorithm.
TASK 9:
9. WAP to find Optimal Binary Search Tree.
TASK 10:
10. Implement solution for TSP problem using Dynamic Programming Technique.
TASK 11:
11. A). Implement n-Queens problem using Backtracking.
B). WAP for Hamiltonian Cycle Problem
TASK 12:
12. Implement the solution for TSP problem using Branch & Bound technique.
102
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II Year B.Tech, IT– II SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13ITD104)JAVA PROGRAMMING LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. Understand basic principles of object-oriented program design using Java.
2. Understand the basic and some advanced issues related to writing classes and
methods such as data, visibility, scope, method parameters, object references,
and nested classes.
3. Understand the basic ideas behind class hierarchies, polymorphism, and
programming to interfaces.
4. Get exposure to exceptions and basic I/O streams.
5. Develop solid Java programming skills and the ability to put in practice the
acquired knowledge and understanding of the Java language and object-oriented
design in relatively simple case studies.
Course Outcomes (LO):
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. [Object-oriented Programming]
Be able to understand better the object-oriented approach in programming. Students
should be able to analyze and design a computer program to solve real world problems
based on object-oriented principles.
2. [Java Programming Language]
Be able to write computer programs to solve real world problems in Java
3. [Good Documentation Practices]
To learn and appreciate the importance and merits of proper comments in source code
and API documentations
4. [GUI Programming]
Be able to write simple GUI interfaces for a computer program to interact with users,
and to understand the event-based GUI handling principles.
Programs:
1. Write a java program to print all the twin primes below 1000. (A twin prime is
a prime number that differs from another prime number by two. (3, 5), (5, 7), (11,
13), (17, 19), (29, 31), (41, 43), .821, 823), etc. .
2. Write a java program to implement matrix multiplication. (Take the input from
keyboard).
3. Write a Java program for sorting a given list of names in ascending order.
4. The Fibonacci sequence is defined by the following rule. The first two values in the
sequence are 1 and 1. Every subsequent value is the run of the two values
103
preceding it. Write a Java program that uses both recursive and non recursive
functions to print the nth value in the Fibonacci sequence.
5. Write a Java program that prompts the user for an integer and then prints out all
prime numbers up to that integer.
6. Write a Java program that checks whether a given string is a palindrome or not.
Ex: MALAYALAM is a palindrome.
7. Write a Java program that prints all real solutions to the quadratic equation ax2 +
bx + c = 0. Read in a, b, c and use the quadratic formula. If the discriminant b2 -
4ac is negative, display a message stating that there are no real solutions.
8. Write a java program to implement constructor overloading.
9. Write a java program to implement variable length arguments
10. Write a java program to implement the use of inner classes.
11. Write a java program to implement dynamic method dispatch.
12. Write a Java program that illustrates how run time polymorphism is achieved.
13. Write a java program that illustrates the following
Handling predefined exceptions
Handling user defined exceptions
14. Write a java program that illustrates the following
Creation of simple package.
Accessing a package.
Implementing interfaces.
15. Write a Java program for creating multiple threads
Using Thread class
Using Runnable interface
16. Write a Java program for creating multiple threads. The main method sleeps for
10 seconds at the end of which all the threads should be terminated.
17. Write a Java program that correctly implements producer consumer problem using
the concept of inter thread communication.
18. Write a Java program that implements a simple client/server application. The
client sends data to a server. The server receives the data, uses it to produce a
result, and then sends the result back to the client. The client displays the result
on the console. For ex: The client sends a Celsius value, and the result produced
by the server is the Fahrenheit value.
19. Write a Java program that reads on file name from the user then displays
information about whether the file exists, whether the file is readable, whether the
file is writable, the contents of file and the length of the file in bytes.
20. Write a Java program that: (Use classes and objects)
a) Implements stack ADT.
b) Converts infix expression into Prefix form.
104
21. Write an applet that displays a simple message.
22. Write a java program for passing parameters to applets
23. Write a Java program that works as a simple calculator. Use a grid layout to
arrange buttons for the Digits and for the + - * % operations. Add a text field to
display the result.
24. Write a Java program for handling mouse and keyboard events.
25. Write a Java program for handling menu events.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. The Complete Reference Java J2SE, 5th Edition, Herbert Schildt , TMH.
2. Core Java 2 Volume I Fundamentals, 5th Edition. Cay S.Horstmann, Gary
Cornell , PHI,2000.
3. The Java Programming Language - Second Edition, K. Arnold and J. Gosling
, Addison Wesley, 1996.
105
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B. Tech CSE, IT- I SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13CSE007)SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
Course Objectives:
1. Understand the basic concepts and issues of software .
2. Identify Life cycle phases
3. Prepare the Requirements for a small software project
4. Understand process of Requirements Engineering and process of Design
engineering
5. Recognize components of a Test Case
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, student should be able to:
1. Choose the appropriate Process model for the given project
2. Document the Requirements
3. Develop Different system Models
4. Create simple Test cases
5. Develop the skills for Software measurement and prepare RMMI plan
UNIT- I
Introduction to Software Engineering:
Changing nature of Software, Software Myths.
A Generic View of Process:-Software engineering-A layered technology, The Capability
Maturity Model Integration (CMMI)
Process Models:-The water fall model, Incremental process models, evolutionary
process models, the unified process.
UNIT- II
Software Requirements:
Functional and non functional requirements, User requirements, System requirements,
Interface specification, the software requirements document.
Requirements Engineering Process:
Feasibility studies, requirements elicitation and analysis, requirements validation,
requirements management
UNIT- III
System models: context models, behavior models, data models, object models,
structured methods
Design engineering: design process and design quality, design concepts the design
model
106
Creating an architectural design: software architecture, data design, architectural styles
and patterns, architectural design
UNIT- IV
Test Strategies: A strategic approach to software testingBlack box and White box
Testing, Validation Testing, System Testing, Product Metrics, Software Quality, Metrics
for analysis model, Metrics for design model, Metrics for source code, Metrics for
testing, Metrics for maintenance Metrics for process and products Software
measurement, Metrics for software quality
UNIT- V
Risk Management: Reactive vs. proactive risk strategies, Software risks, Risk
identification, Risk projection Risk refinement, RMMM, RMMM plan Quality
Management, Quality concepts, Software quality assurance, Software reviews, Formal
technical reviews, Statistical Software Quality Assurance, Software reliability, ISO 9000
Quality standards
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Roger S.Pressman, Software engineering- A practitioner’s Approach,
McGraw-Hill International Edition, 5th edition, 2001.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Ian Sommerville, Software engineering, Pearson education Asia, 6th edition,
2000.
2. Pankaj Jalote- An Integrated Approach to Software Engineering,Springer
Verlag, 1997.
3. James F Peters and Witold Pedryez, “Software Engineering – An Engineering
Approach”, John Wiley and Sons,New Delhi, 2000.
4. Ali Behforooz and Frederick J Hudson, “Software Engineering \
Fundamentals”, Oxford University Press, New Delhi, 1996.
107
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B. Tech CSE, IT- I SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13ITD010)LINUX PROGRAMMING
Course Objectives:
1. Understand basic principles of Linux programming
2. To familiarize students with the Linux environment
3. To learn the fundamentals of shell scripting/programming
4. To familiarize students with basic Linux administration
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. Understand the how to work with Linux commands
2. Understand the how to write Shell Scrips
3. Learn various System Calls in linux
4. Become familiar with Write shell scripts to automate various tasks
UNIT-I
Linux Utilities-File handling utilities, Security by file permissions, Process utilities, Disk
utilities, Networking commands, Filters, Text processing utilities and Backup utilities,
sed – scripts, operation, addresses, commands, applications, awk – execution, fields
and records, scripts, operation, patterns, using system commands in awk.
Working with the Bourne again shell(bash): Introduction, shell responsibilities, pipes
and input Redirection, output redirection, running a shell script, the shell as a
programming language, shell meta characters, file name substitution, shell variables,
command substitution, shell commands, the environment, quoting, test command,
control structures, arithmetic in shell, shell script examples, interrupt processing,
functions, debugging shell scripts.
UNIT-II
Files: File Concept, File System Structure, Inodes, File Attributes, File types, Library
functions,the standard I/O and formatted I/O in C, stream errors, kernel support for
files, System calls, file descriptors, low level file access – File structure related system
calls(File APIs), file and record locking, file and directory management – Directory file
APIs, Symbolic links & hard links.
UNIT-III
Process – Process concept, Kernel support for process, process attributes, process
control - process creation, waiting for a process, process termination, zombie process,
orphan process, Process APIs. Signals– Introduction to signals, Signal generation and
handling, Kernel support for signals, Signal function, unreliable signals, reliable signals,
kill, raise , alarm, pause, abort, sleep functions.
108
UNIT-IV
Interprocess Communication: Introduction to IPC, Pipes, and FIFOs, Introduction to
three types of IPC-message queues, semaphores and shared memory. Message
Queues- Kernel support for messages, UNIX system V APIs for messages,
client/server example.
Semaphores-Kernel support for semaphores, UNIX system V APIs for semaphores.
Shared Memory- Kernel support for shared memory, UNIX system V APIs for shared
memory, semaphore and shared memory example.
UNIT-V
Sockets: Introduction to Sockets, Socket Addresses, Socket system calls for
connection oriented protocol and connectionless protocol, example-client/server
programs.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Unix System Programming using C++, T.Chan, PHI.
2. Unix Concepts and Applications, 4th Edition, Sumitabha Das, TMH,2006.
3. Beginning Linux Programming, 4th Edition, N.Matthew, R.Stones,Wrox, Wiley
India Edition,rp-2008
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Linux System Programming, Robert Love, O’Reilly, SPD.
2. Advanced Programming in the UNIX environment, 2nd Edition, W.R.Stevens,
Pearson Education.
3. Unix Network Programming, W.R.Stevens, PHI.
4. Unix for programmers and users, 3rd Edition, Graham Glass, King Ables,
Pearson Education.
109
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B. Tech CSE, IT- I SEM L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13ITD006)COMPUTER NETWORKS
Course Objectives:
1. Build an understanding of the fundamental concepts of computer networking.
2. Familiarize the student with the basic taxonomy and terminology of the computer
networking area.
3. Introduce the student to advanced networking concepts, preparing the student for
entry Advanced courses in computer networking.
4. Allow the student to gain expertise in some specific areas of networking such as
the design and maintenance of individual networks.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. Understand the Layered Architecture of Computer Networks.
2. Understand the operation of the main components of computer networks.
3. Learn various network protocols and algorithms.
4. Acquire the required skill to design simple computer networks and Become
familiar with security risks threatening computer networks.
UNIT-I
DATA COMMUNICATIONS: Components – Direction of Data flow – Networks –
Components and Categories – Types of Connections – Topologies –Protocols and
Standards – ISO / OSI model , Example Networks such as NSF NET, ARPANET,
ATM, Frame Relay, ISDN
Physical layer: Digital transmission, Multiplexing, Transmission Media, Switching,
Circuit Switched Networks, Datagram Networks, Virtual Circuit Networks, Switch and
Telephone Networks.
UNIT- II
Data link layer: Introduction, Framing, and Error – Detection and Correction – Parity –
LRC – CRC Hamming code, Flow and Error Control, Noiseless Channels, Noisy
Channels, HDLC, Point to Point Protocols.
Medium Access sub layer: ALOHA, CSMA/CD, LAN - Ethernet IEEE 802.3 - IEEE
802.4 - IEEE 802.5 - IEEE 802.11, Random access, Controlled access,
Channalization, Collision Free Protocols
UNIT -III
Network layer: Logical Addressing, Internetworking, Tunneling, Address mapping,
ICMP, IGMP, Forwarding, Uni-Cast Routing Protocols, Multicast Routing Protocols,
Congestion Control Mechanism
110
UNIT-IV
Transport Layer: Process to Process Delivery, UDP and TCP protocols, SCTP, Data
Traffic, Congestion, Congestion Control, QoS, Integrated Services, Differentiated
Services,QoS in Switched Networks.
UNIT-V
Application Layer: Domain name space, DNS in internet, electronic mail, SMTP,,
FTP,WWW,HTTP,SNMP,Network Security,Cryptography.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Data Communications and Networking – Behrouz A. Forouzan , Fourth
Edition TMH,2006.
2. Computer Networks — Andrew S Tanenbaum, 4th Edition. Pearson
Education/PHI.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Data communications and computer Networks, P.C .Gupta, PHI.
2. An Engineering Approach to Computer Networks-S.Keshav, 2nd Edition,
Pearson Education.
3. Understanding communications and Networks, 3rd Edition, W.A. Shay,
Cengage Learning.
4. Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach Featuring the Internet. James
F. Kurose & Keith W. Ross,3rd Edition, Pearson Education.
5. Larry L.Peterson and Peter S. Davie, “Computer Networks”, Harcourt Asia
Pvt. Ltd., Second Edition.
6. William Stallings, “Data and Computer Communication”, Sixth Edition,
Pearson Education, 2000.
111
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech CSE, IT–I SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13CSE009)COMPILER DESIGN
Course Objectives:
1. Illustrating different phases of compilation
2. Enumerating top down and bottom up parsing techniques used in compilation
process
3. Describes the steps in syntax directed translation, code generation and
symbol table.
4. Learning the effectiveness of optimization.
5. Introducing code generation for generating machine code.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of this course the student will be able to:
1. Explain phases of a compiler and develop LEX programs for regular
expressions.
2. Differentiate between top down parsing and bottom up parsing and develop
YACC programs for LALR parsing.
3. Use syntax directed translation, intermediate code generation and symbol
table for developing a compiler.
4. Reduce the code using code optimization techniques.
5. Generate the machine code to build a compiler .
UNIT–I
Overview of Compilation: Phases of Compilation – Lexical Analysis, Regular
Grammar and regular expression for common programming language features, pass
and Phases of translation, interpretation, bootstrapping, data structures in compilation
– LEX lexical analyzer generator.
UNIT–II
Top down Parsing: Context free grammars, Top down parsing – Backtracking, LL (1),
recursive descent parsing, Predictive parsing, Preprocessing steps required for
predictive parsing.
Bottom up parsing: Shift Reduce parsing, LR and LALR parsing, Error recovery in
parsing, handling ambiguous grammar, YACC – automatic parser generator.
112
UNIT–III
Semantic analysis: Intermediate forms of source Programs – abstract syntax tree,
polish notation and three address codes. Attributed grammars, Syntax directed
translation, Conversion of popular Programming languages language Constructs into
Intermediate code forms, Type checker.
Symbol Tables: Symbol table format, organization for block structures languages,
hashing, tree structures representation of scope information. Block structures and non
block structure storage allocation: static, Runtime stack and heap storage allocation,
storage allocation for arrays, strings and records.
UNIT–IV
Code optimization: Consideration for Optimization, Scope of Optimization, local
optimization, loop optimization, frequency reduction, folding, DAG representation.
Data flow analysis: Flow graph, data flow equation, global optimization, redundant sub
expression elimination, Induction variable elements, Live variable analysis, Copy
propagation.
UNIT–V
Object code generation: Object code forms, machine dependent code optimization,
register allocation and assignment generic code generation algorithms, DAG for
register allocation.
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Principles of compiler design -A.V. Aho . J.D.Ullman; Pearson Education.
2. Modern Compiler Implementation in C- Andrew N. Appel, Cambridge
University Press.
3. Systems programming and operating systems – D.M Dhamdhere, 2nd
edition,tata McGraw-hill publishing comp pvltd.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. lex &yacc – John R. Levine, Tony Mason, Doug Brown, O’reilly
2. Modern Compiler Design- Dick Grune, Henry E. BAL, Cariel T. H. Jacobs,
Wiley dreamtech.
3. Engineering a Compiler-Cooper & Linda, Elsevier.
4. Compiler Construction, Louden, Thomson.
113
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech CSE, IT–I SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13CSE015)COMPUTER GRAPHICS AND ANIMATION
Course Objectives:
1. Analyze the various primitives pertaining to graphics
2. Employ the different kinds of 2D transformation techniques
3. Use certain techniques to view the objects.
4. understand 3D transformation and viewing
5. Know the animation design sequences.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students are expected to:
1. Apply the various basic algorithms to draw the object
2. construct the 2D objects using transformations
3. Demonstrate the representations of 3D objects
4. apply the various techniques to eliminate hidden surfaces of 3D object
5. Create animation sequences of an object
UNIT- I
INTRODUCTION
Introduction: Usage of Graphics and their applications, Presentation Graphics-
Computer Aided Design- Computer Art- Entertainment- Education and Training-
Visualization- Image Processing- Graphical User Interfaces
Over view of Graphics systems: Video Display Devices- Raster Scan systems-random
scan systems-Graphics monitors and workstations-Input devices-hard copy devices-
Graphics software
Output primitives: Points and Lines-Line Drawing Algorithms- Loading the Frame
buffer- Line function- Circle- Generating Algorithms- Ellipse Generating Algorithms-
Other Curves- Parallel Curve Algorithms-Curve Functions-Pixel Addressing- Filled
Area Primitives-Filled Area Functions- Cell Array- Character Generation
Attributes of Output Primitives: Line and Curve Attributes-Color and Gray scale levels-
Area Fill Attributes- Character Attributes-Bundled Attributes- Inquiry Functions-Ant
aliasing
UNIT- II
TWO DIMENSIONAL GEOMETRICALTRANSFORMATION AND VIEWING
Two dimensional geometric transformations - Matrix representations and
homogeneous coordinates, composite transformations; Two dimensional viewing -
viewing pipeline, viewing coordinate reference frame; widow-to-viewport coordinate
114
transformation, Cohen -Sutherland-and Cyrus-beck line clipping
algorithms,Southerland-Hodgeman polygon clipping algorithm.
UNIT- III
THREE DIMENSIONAL OBJECT REPRESENTATION
Three dimensional concepts; Three dimensional object representations - Polygon
surfaces - Polygon tables - Plane equations - Polygon meshes; Curved Lines and
surfaces, Quadratic surfaces; Blobby objects; Spline representations - Bezier curves
and surfaces - B-Spline curves and surfaces
UNIT- IV
THREE DIMENSIONAL GEOMETRICAL TRANSFORMATION AND VIEWING
Three dimensional geometric and modeling transformations - Translation, Rotation,
Scaling, composite transformations; Three dimensional viewing - viewing pipeline,
viewing coordinates, Projections, Clipping; Visible surface detection methods: Depth
buffer, scan line, Depth sorting, BSP-tree methods, Area sud-division and octree
methods
UNIT- V
COMPUTER ANIMATION
Design of Animation Sequence, General computer Animation functions, Raster
animation, Computer animation languages, key frame systems, motion specifications
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Donald Hearn & M. Pauline Baker, "Computer Graphics", Pearson Education,
2nd Edition, 2003
2. “Computer graphics principles &practice”, second edition in c, foley,
VanDam, Feiner and Hughes, Pearson Education
3. Computer Graphics Peter Shirley & Steve Marschner Indian Edition
CENGAGE Learning.
4. Computer Graphics C Version by Donald Hearn & M. Pauline Baker, Pearson
Education, New Delhi, 2004
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. “Procedural elements for Computer Graphics”, David Rogers, Tata McGraw
hill,2nd edition
2. “Computer Graphics”, Steven Harington, TMH
3. “Principles of interactive Computer Graphics” Neuman and sproul,TMH
115
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech CSE, IT–I SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13ITD008)OPERATING SYSTEMS
Course Objectives:
1. Analyze the tradeoffs inherent in operating system design.
2. Summarize the various approaches to solving the problem of mutual exclusion in
an operating system.
3. Evaluate the trade-offs in terms of memory size (main memory, cache memory,
auxiliarymemory) and processor speed.
4. Demonstrate disk storage strategies, file strategies and system protection and
security with different crypto models.
.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. Identify the System calls, protection and interrupts of any GOS.
2. Evaluate various Process scheduling mechanisms of any GOS in the mind
3. Write application keeping Concurrency and synchronization Semaphores/monitors,
shared memory, mutual exclusion.
4. Explain main memory, disk access, file systems facilities along with protection and
security issues.
UNIT I
Computer System and Operating System Overview: Overview of Computer System
hardware, Operating System Objectives and functions, Evolution of operating System,
Example Systems. Operating System Services, System Calls, System Programs.
Process Management: Process Description, Process Control, Process States,
Cooperating Processes, Inter-process Communication.
UNIT II
CPU Scheduling: Basic Concepts, Scheduling Criteria, Scheduling Algorithms and
evaluation, Threads Overview, Threading issues.
Concurrency: Principles of Concurrency, Mutual Exclusion, Software and hardware
approaches, Semaphores, Monitors, Message Passing, Classic problems of
synchronization.
116
UNIT III
Principles of deadlock: System Model, Deadlock Characterization, Methods for
handling Deadlocks, Deadlock Prevention, Deadlock avoidance, Deadlock detection,
Recovery from Deadlocks, Dining philosopher’s problem.
UNIT IV
Memory Management: Basic concepts, Swapping, Contiguous memory allocation,
Paging, Segmentation, Virtual memory, Demand paging, Page-replacement
algorithms, Thrashing.
Secondary storage structure: Disk structure; Disk scheduling, Disk management,
Swap-space Management, RAID structure, Stable-storage Implementation, Tertiary-
Storage Structure
I/O systems: I/O hardware, Application I/O interface, Kernel I/O subsystem,
Transforming I/O request to hardware operations, STREAMS
UNIT V
File Management: File system-File concepts, Access methods, Directory structure,
File system mounting, File sharing and Protection. Implementing file systems-File
system structure and implementation, Directory implementation, Allocation methods,
Free-space management, Efficiency and performance
Security: Security threats, Protection, Intruders, Viruses, Trusted System.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Operating System Principles- Abraham Silberchatz, Peter B. Galvin, Greg
Gagne 7th Edition, John Wiley.
2. Operating Systems - Internal and Design Principles, Stallings, Fifth Edition-
2005, Pearson education/PHI
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Operating System A Design Approach-Crowley,TMH.
2. Modern Operating Systems, Andrew S Tanenbaum 2nd edition Pearson/PHI.
3. “An Introduction to Operating Systems, Concepts and Practice”, PHI, 2003 -
Pramod Chandra P. Bhat.
4. Operating Systems – A concept based approach – DM Dhamdhere – 2nd
Edition TMH
117
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech IT– I SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13ITD106)LINUX PROGRAMMING AND COMPILER DESIGN LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. Understand basic principles of Linux programming
2. To learn the fundamentals of shell scripting/programming
3. To provide an Understanding of the language translation peculiarities by
designing complete translator for mini language.
4. To provide practical knowledge in automating the implementation of language
translator.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. Understand the how to write Shell Scrips
2. Learn various System Calls in linux
3. Design and implement language processors in C/C++
4. Use tools (such as LEX and YACC) to automate parts of the implementation
process.
PART-A:
List of TASKs
1. Basic Linux Commands File handling utilities, Security by file
permissions, Process utilities, Disk utilities, sed, awk, grep.
2. Write a shell script that accepts a file name, starting and ending line numbers
as arguments and displays all the lines between the given line numbers.
3. Write a shell script that deletes all lines containing a specified word in one or
more files supplied as arguments to it.
4. Write a shell script that displays a list of all the files in the current directory to
which the user has read, write and execute permissions.
5. C programming examples using Linux Operating systems.
6. Write a shell script that receives any number of file names as arguments
checks if every argument supplied is a file or a directory and reports
accordingly. Whenever the argument is a file, the number of lines on it is also
reported.
7. Write a shell script that accepts a list of file names as its arguments, counts
and reports the occurrence of each word that is present in the first argument
file on other argument files.
8. Write a shell script to list all of the directory files in a directory.
9. Write a shell script to find factorial of a given integer.
118
10. Write an awk script to count the number of lines in a file that do not contain
vowels.
11. Write an awk script to find the number of characters, words and lines in a file.
12. Implement in C the following Unix commands using System calls
a)Cat b) mv
13. Write a C program to emulate the Unix ls – l command.
14. Write a C program on zombie process
15. Write a C program that illustrates the following.
a) Creating a message queue.
b) Writing to a message queue.
c) Reading from a message queue.
16. Write a C program that illustrates file locking using semaphores.
PART-B
COMPILER DESIGN
Consider the following mini Language, a simple procedural high-level language, only
operating on
integer
data, with a syntax looking vaguely like a simple C crossed with Pascal. The syntax of
the language is
defined by the following BNF grammar:
<program> ::= <block>
<block> ::= { <variabledefinition><slist> }
| { <slist> }
<variabledefinition> ::= int <vardeflist> ;
<vardeflist> ::= <vardec> | <vardec> , <vardeflist>
<vardec> ::= <identifier> | <identifier> [ <constant> ]
<slist> ::= <statement> | <statement> ; <slist>
<statement> ::= <assignment> | <ifstatement> | <whilestatement>
| <block> | <printstatement> | <empty>
<assignment> ::= <identifier> = <expression>
| <identifier>[ <expression> ] = <expression>
<ifstatement> ::= if <bexpression> then <slist> else <slist> endif
| if<bexpression> then <slist> endif
<whilestatement> ::= while <bexpression> do <slist> enddo
<printstatement> ::= print ( <expression> )
<expression> ::= <expression><addingop><term> | <term> | <addingop><term>
<bexpression> ::= <expression><relop><expression>
<relop> ::= < | <= | == | >= | > | !=
119
<addingop> ::= + | -
<term> ::= <term><multop><factor> | <factor>
<multop> ::= * | /
<factor> ::= <constant> | <identifier> | <identifier> [ <expression>]
| ( <expression> )
<constant> ::= <digit> | <digit><constant>
<identifier> ::= <identifier><letterordigit> | <letter>
<letterordigit> ::= <letter> | <digit>
<letter> ::= a|b|c|d|e|f|g|h|i|j|k|l|m|n|o|p|q|r|s|t|u|v|w|x|y|z
<digit> ::= 0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|8|9
<empty> has the obvious meaning
Comments (zero or more characters enclosed between the standard C/Java-style
comment brackets /
*...*/) can be inserted. The language has rudimentary support for 1-dimensional arrays.
The declaration
int a[3] declares an array of three elements, referenced as a[0], a[1] and a[2]. Note also
that you should
worry about the scoping of names.
A simple program written in this language is:
{ int a[3],t1,t2;
t1=2;
a[0]=1; a[1]=2; a[t1]=3;
t2=-(a[2]+t1*6)/(a[2]-t1);
if t2>5 then
print(t2);
else {
int t3;
t3=99;
t2=-25;
print(-t1+t2*t3); /* this is a comment
on 2 lines */
} endif }
TASK 17
Design a Lexical analyzer for the above language. The lexical analyzer should ignore
redundant spaces, tabs and newlines. It should also ignore comments. Although the
syntax specification states that identifiers can be arbitrarily long, you may restrict the
length to some reasonable value.
120
TASK 18
Implement the lexical analyzer using JLex, flex or lex or other lexical analyzer
generating tools.
TASK 19
Design Predictive parser for the given language
Design LALR bottom up parser for the above language.
TASK 20
Convert the BNF rules into Yacc form and Write code to generate abstract syntax tree.
TASK 21
Write program to generate machine code from the abstract syntax tree generated by
the parser
TASK 22
Write a Yacc Program to construct a parse tree for the given grammar
Write a Lex program to construct a lexical analyzer
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Unix System Programming using C++, T.Chan, PHI.
2. Unix Concepts and Applications, 4th Edition, Sumitabha Das, TMH,2006.
3. Beginning Linux Programming, 4th Edition, N.Matthew, R.Stones,Wrox,
Wiley India Edition,rp-2008
4. Principles of compiler design-A.V.Aho,J.D.Ullman;Pearson Education.
5. Modern Compiler Implementation in C-Andrew N. Appel,Cambridge.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Linux System Programming, Robert Love, O’Reilly, SPD.
2. Advanced Programming in the Unix environment, 2nd Edition, W.R.Stevens,
Pearson Education.
3. Unix Network Programming, W.R.Stevens, PHI.
4. Unix for programmers and users, 3rd Edition, Graham Glass, King Ables,
Pearson Education.
121
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech IT– I SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13ENG102)ADVANCED ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS
LABORATORY
Introduction
This course aims to offer students a practical approach to Technical Writing, and
provide a relevant, contemporary and authoritative introduction to the dynamic field of
technical communication that prepares them for Workplace Communication. Each unit
in the syllabus is devised so as to include a writing component as well as an oral
component.
Course objectives:
i) enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content to write
business letters, resume, SOP, Proposals and Technical Reports for
academics as well as for workplace
ii) enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific
target audience
iii) groom students to speak accurately and fluently and prepare them for real
world activities through behavioral skills
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
i) summarize and synthesize information and produce technical writing that is
required in academics as well as in the engineering profession
ii) write covering letters, resume, SOP, Project Proposals and Technical
Reports
iii) speak fluently and address a large group of audience and participate in
debates and discussions
Methodology
Written Component
A Process- Genre methodology will be used in teaching the technical genres. This
method would enable students to understand the use of particular lexico-grammatical
patterns required of in the context of technical writing. They would learn to use
language to express the particular communicative intent that is required of in the
context of writing these genres.
Syllabus Outline
Unit I
1. Applications and Covering letters
2. Resume Writing
122
3. Verbal Ability
4. Oral Communication: Talking about Yourself
Unit II
1. Writing an SOP
2. Summarizing and Synthesizing Information (Precis Writing)
3. Oral Communication: Making Presentations
Unit III
1. Writing Project Proposals
2. Oral Communication: Group Discussions
Unit IV
1. Writing Project Reports
2. Oral Communication: Interview Skills
Unit V
Behavioral Skills and Personality Development
1. Building a Positive Attitude, Building a Positive Personality, Motivation, Goal
Setting & Values & Vision
2. Problem Solving and Decision Making; Negotiation Skills through Role Play
3. Team Building and Leadership Abilities
4. Social Etiquette
REQUIRED TEXT AND MATERIALS:
1. Ashraf Rizvi, M (2005). Effective Technical Communication, Tata Mc Graw
Hill Publishing Company Limited, New Delhi.
2. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical
Communication: A Reader-Centered Approach (5th Ed...) (pp. 457-473).
Boston: Heinle.
3. William S. Pfeiffer, (2010) Technical Communication: A Practical Approach
(7th ed.) Prentice Hall.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Burnett, Rebecca. Technical Communication. 5th Ed., Heinle, 2001
2. Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson: Technical Writing Process and
Product. 3rd edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
3. Markel, Mike. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies (8th
EDITION (2006-2007);
4. R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan, Business Correspondence and Report Writing,
Third Edition, TMH, 2002. (Indian Edition)
5. M. Raman and S. Sharma, Technical Communication: Principles and
Practices, OUP, 2004. (Indian Edition)
123
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech IT– I SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13CSE105) OPERATING SYSTEMS AND COMPUTER NETWORKS
LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. General understanding of structure of modern computers and Operating
Systems.
2. Understanding the Purpose, structure and functions of operating systems
3. Illustration of key OS functions through C programming with examples
4. Introduce the concept of computer networks and its topologies to the
students
5. Involve students in analytical studies of Computer Networks through C
programming.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students are expected to:
1. Identifying the working methodology of multithreaded applications
2. Determining the reasons of deadlocks, and their remedial measures in an
operating system.
3. Learning the management of different type of memories techniques in the
computer system.
4. Knowing the management of different type of memories techniques in the
computer system.
5. Analyzing why networks need security and control, what errors might occur,
and how to control network errors.
OPERATING SYSTEMS LAB
1. Simulate the following CPU scheduling algorithms
a) Round Robin b) SJF c) FCFS d) Priority
2. Simulate the following algorithms
a) Best fit b) worst fit c) first fit
3. Simulate the following file allocation strategies
a) Sequential b) Indexed c) Linked
4. Simulate algorithms for deadlock avoidance and deadlock detection
5. Simulate the following page replacement algorithms
a) FIFO b) Optimal c) LRU
6. Simulate the following disk scheduling algorithms
a) FCFS b) SCAN c) CSCAN d) LOOK
COMPUTER NETWORKS LAB
124
7. Implement the data link layer framing methods such as character, character
stuffing and bit stuffing.
8. Implement on a data set of characters the three CRC polynomials – CRC 12,
CRC 16 and CRC CCIP.
9. Implement Dijkstra‘s algorithm to compute the Shortest path thru a graph.
10. Take an example subnet graph with weights indicating delay between nodes.
Now obtain Routing table at each node using distance vector routing
algorithm
11. Take a 64 bit plain text and encrypt the same using DES algorithm.
12. Using RSA algorithm encrypt a text data and Decrypt the same.
125
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech IT– II SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13ITD009) SOFTWARE TESTING METHODOLOGIES
Course Objectives:
1. know different types of Bugs, Testing levels
2. Knowledge on Transaction flow testing alpha, beta and domain testing.
3. Logic based testing, state testing, testability tips. Good bad graphs
4. Know the concept of Graph matrices and application, test management
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to know
1. How to apply fundamental knowledge of Testing in Real time scenarios.
2. Test a simple application.
3. Understand and Applying the Techniques in Software Development Life
cycle.
4. How to create a test plan for an application
UNIT- I
Introduction: Purpose of testing-Dichotomies-Software Testing Principles- Bugs,
consequences of bugs, Taxonomy of bugs -The Tester’s Role in a Software
Development Organization-Black box testing and white box testing- Defects -Cost of
defects- Defect Classes- Defect Examples, software testing life cycle.
UNIT- II
Flow graphs and Path testing: Basics concepts of path testing-predicates-path
predicates and achievable paths- path sensitizing- path instrumentation, application of
path testing.
Transaction Flow Testing: Transaction flows- transaction flow testing techniques-
Dataflow testing: Basics of dataflow testing - strategies in data flow testing –
application of data flow testing.
UNIT- III
Test Case Design Strategies: Using Black Box Approach to Test Case Design -
Random Testing – Requirements based testing – Boundary Value Analysis –
Equivalence Class Partitioning– Compatibility testing – User documentation testing –
Domain testing.
Alpha, Beta Tests – Usability and Accessibility testing – Configuration testing -
Compatibility testing – Testing the documentation.
126
UNIT- IV
Paths, Path products and Regular expressions: Path products & path expression-
reduction procedure- applications- regular expressions & flow anomaly detection.
Logic Based Testing: Overview decision tables-path expressions, k-v charts.
State, state graphs and transition testing: state graphs, good and bad state graphs,
state testing, testability tips
UNIT- V
Graph Matrices and applications: motivational over view, matrix of graph, relations,
power of matrix, node reduction algorithm.
People and organizational issues in testing: Organization structures for testing
teams – testing services - Test Planning – Test Plan Components – Test Plan
Attachments – Locating Test Items – test management – test process- bug detection
life cycle.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. “Software Testing – Principles and Practices”, Srinivasan Desikan and
Gopalaswamy Ramesh, Pearson education, 2006.
2. “Software Testing Techniques”, Boris Beizer, 2nd Edition, Van Nostrand
Reinhold, New York, 1990
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. “Software Testing”, Ron Patton, Second Edition, Sams Publishing, Pearson
education, 2007
2. “Software Testing – Effective Methods, Tools and Techniques”, Renu Rajani,
Pradeep Oak, Tata McGraw Hill, 2004.
3. “Software Testing in the Real World – Improving the Process”, Edward Kit,
Pearson Education, 1995.
4. “Foundations of Software Testing – Fundamental algorithms and techniques”,
Aditya P. Mathur, Dorling Kindersley (India) Pvt. Ltd., Pearson Education,
2008
127
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13CSE017)DATA WAREHOUSING AND MINING
Course Objectives:
1. To introduce the basic concepts and techniques of Data Warehousing &
Mining.
2. Apply preprocessing statistical methods for any given raw data.
3. To develop skills of using recent data mining software for solving practical
problems
4. Implement and apply basic algorithms for supervised and unsupervised
learning
5. Explore efficient and cost effective methods for maintaining datawarehouse
systems
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students are expected to:
1. Apply database analysis and design techniques to the concept of Data
Warehousing.
2. Construct a data model for a case sample Data Warehouse project.
3. List and describe the core components of a Data Mart.
4. Summarize the rational and key benefits of using Data Marts and Construct a
data model representing a Data Mart strategy.
5. Evaluate different models used for OLAP and data preprocessing
UNIT I:
Introduction: Fundamentals of data mining, KDD process, Data Mining
Functionalities, Classification of Data Mining systems, Data Mining Task primitives,
Integration of a Data mining System with a Database or a Data warehouse systems,
Major issues in Data Mining.
Data Preprocessing: Needs for Preprocessing the Data, Data Cleaning, Data
Integration and Transformation, Data Reduction, Discretization and Concept Hierarchy
Generation.
UNIT II:
Data Warehouse and OLAP Technology for Data Mining: Data Warehouse,
Multidimensional Data Model, Data Warehouse Architecture, Data Warehouse
Implementation, From Data Warehousing to Data Mining.
Data Cube computation and Data Generalization: Efficient Methods for Data Cube
Computation, Further Development of data cube and OLAP Technology,
Characterization and Discrimination: Attribute-Oriented Induction.
128
UNIT – III
Mining Frequent, Associations and Correlations: Basic Concepts, Frequent Item
set mining methods, Mining Multilevel Association Rules from Transaction Databases,
Mining Multidimensional Association Rules from Relational Databases and Data
Warehouses, From Association Mining to Correlation Analysis, Constraint-Based
Association Mining.
UNIT – IV
Classification and Prediction: Issues Regarding Classification and Prediction,
Classification by Decision Tree Induction, Bayesian Classification, Classification by
Back propagation, Classification Based on Concepts from Association Rule Mining,
Other Classification Methods, Prediction, Classifier Accuracy.
UNIT – V
Cluster Analysis Introduction: Types of Data in Cluster Analysis, A Categorization of
Major Clustering Methods, Partitioning Methods, Density-Based Methods, Grid-Based
Methods, Model-Based Clustering Methods, Outlier Analysis.
Mining Complex Types of Data: Mining Spatial Databases, Mining Multimedia
Databases, Mining Time-Series and Sequence Data, Mining Text Databases, Mining
the World Wide Web.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Data mining: Concepts and Techniques, Jiawei Han and Micheline Kamber,
2nd Edition, Elsevier, 2006.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Introduction to data mining, Pang-Ning Tan, Michael Steinbach, Vipin Kumar,
Addison-Wesley, 2005. ISBN: 0321321367.
2. Mining Introductory and advanced topics –MARGARET H DUNHAM,
PEARSON EDUCATION
3. Lecture Notes on Data Mining, Micheal W.Berry, Murray Browne, World
Scientific Publishing Co
4. Data Mining Techniques – ARUN K PUJARI, University Press.
5. Data Mining for Association Rules and Sequential Patterns: Sequential and
Parallel Algorithms, Jean-Marc Adamo, ISBN: 0387950486
6. The Data Warehouse Life cycle Tool kit – RALPH KIMBALL WILEY
STUDENT EDITION.
7. Data Warehousing in the Real World – SAM ANAHORY & DENNIS
MURRAY. Pearson Edn Asia.
129
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13CSE010)PRINCIPLES OF PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES
Course Objectives
2. Define a programming language and describe the main principles of various
types of programming languages;
3. Differentiate Syntax and Semantics and explain their significance in different
programming languages.
4. Name various types of Data types, Expressions and Statements
5. Describe the characteristics of programming languages like subprograms
and Abstract data types critically and in a scientific manner.
6. Define Exception Handling and comparison of the principles of an
imperative, functional, object oriented or logic programming language
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students are expected to/to be:
1. Implement the principles of various types of programming Languages.
2. Apply the syntax‐related concepts including various types of grammars, parse
trees, Recursive descent parsing and also Axiomatic and Denotational
semantics.
3. Use various types of Data types, Expressions and Statements
4. Illustrate the language abstraction constructs of classes, interfaces,
packages, procedures and sub-programs
5. Compare the implementations of imperative, object‐oriented, functional and
logic languages.
UNIT-I:
Preliminary Concepts: Reasons for studying, concepts of programming languages,
Programming domains, Language Evaluation Criteria, influences on Language design,
Language categories.
Programming Paradigms:
Imperative, Object Oriented, functional Programming, and Logic Programming.
Programming Language Implementation – Compilation and Virtual Machines,
programming-environments.
UNIT-II:
Syntax and Semantics: General Problem of describing Syntax and Semantics, formal
methods of describing syntax - BNF, EBNF for common programming languages
features, parse trees, ambiguous grammars, attribute grammars, denotational
semantics and axiomatic semantics for common programming language features.
UNIT-III:
Data types: Introduction, primitive, character, user defined, array, associative, record,
130
union, pointer and reference types, design and implementation uses related to these
types. Names, Variable, concept of binding, type checking, strong typing, type
compatibility, named constants, variable-initialization.
Expressions and Statements: Arithmetic relational and Boolean expressions, Short
circuit evaluation mixed mode assignment, Assignment Statements, Control Structures
– Statement Level, Compound Statements, Selection, Iteration, Unconditional
Statements, guarded commands.
UNIT-IV:
Subprograms and Blocks: Fundamentals of sub-programs, Scope and lifetime of
variable, static and dynamic scope, Design issues of subprograms and operations,
local referencing environments, parameter passing methods, overloaded sub-
programs, generic sub-programs, parameters that are sub-program names, design
issues for functions user defined overloaded operators,co-routines.
Abstract Data types: Abstractions and encapsulation, introductions to data
abstraction, design issues, language examples, C++ parameterized ADT, object
oriented programming in small talk, C++, Java, C#, Ada 95 Concurrency: Subprogram
level concurrency, semaphores, monitors, massage-passing,Java-threads,C#threads.
UNIT-V:
Exception handling : Exceptions, exception Propagation, Exception handler in Ada,
C++ and Java.
Logic Programming Language: Introduction and overview of logic programming,
basic
elements-of-prolog-,application-of-logic-programming.
Functional Programming Languages: Introduction, fundamentals of FPL, LISP, ML,
Haskell, application of Functional Programming Languages and comparison of
functional and imperative Languages.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Concepts of Programming Languages Robert .W. Sebesta 6/e, Pearson
Education.
2. Programming Languages –Louden, Second Edition, Thomson.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Programming languages –Ghezzi, 3/e, John Wiley
2. Programming Languages Design and Implementation – Pratt and Zelkowitz, Fourth
Edition PHI/Pearson Education
3. Programming languages –Watt, Wiley Dreamtech
4. LISP Patric Henry Winston and Paul Horn Pearson Education.
5. Programming in PROLOG Clocksin, Springer
131
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13CSE008)OBJECT ORIENTED ANALYSIS AND DESIGN
Course Objectives:
1. To understand the Unified Modeling Language principles and Learns
fundamental process pattern for object-oriented analysis and design.
2. Learn how to derive analysis model from use case requirements.
3. Learn how to model event-driven state of objects and to transform analysis
model into design model that is a specification for implementation.
4. Identify subsystems,interfaces and collaborations.Apply collaborations to
internal subsystem design.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students are expected to:
In Software development life cycle designing is a crucial phase and at the end of this
course student will be able to
1. Analyze the requirements through Use-Case View
2. Identify all structural and behavioral concepts of the entire system
3. Develop a model using UML concepts by different types of diagrams like Use
case diagram,Class Diagram,Sequence Diagram e.t.c….
4. Apply the universal process pattern to object-oriented design using UML.
….
UNIT-I
Introduction to UML: Importance of modeling, principles of modeling, object oriented
modeling, conceptual model of the UML, Architecture, Software Development Life
Cycle.
UNIT-II
Basic Structural Modeling: Classes, Relationships, Common mechanisms and
diagrams.
Advanced Structural Modeling: Advanced classes, advanced relationships, Interfaces,
Types and Roles, Packages, Common modeling techniques.
UNIT-III
Class and Object Diagrams: Terms, concepts, modeling techniques for class and
object diagrams, Common modeling techniques.
Basic Behavioral Modeling-I: Interactions, Interaction diagrams, Common modeling
techniques
132
UNIT-IV
Basic Behavioral Modeling-II: Use cases, Use case diagrams, Activity diagrams,
Common modeling techniques.
Advanced Behavioral Modeling: Events and signals, state machines, processes and
Threads, time and space, state chart diagrams, Common modeling techniques.
UNIT-V
Architectural Modeling: Component, Deployment, Component diagrams, Deployment
diagrams, Common modeling techniques.
Case Studies
TEXT BOOKS
1. Grady Booch, James Rumbaugh, Ivar Jacobson: The Unified Modeling
Language User Guide, Pearson Education.
2. Hans-Erik Eriksson, Magnus Penker, Brian Lyons, David Fado: UML 2
Toolkit, WILEY-Dreamtech India Pvt. Ltd.
REFERENCS
1. Meilir Page-Jones: Fundamentals of Object Oriented Design in UML,
Pearson Education.
2. Atul Kahate: Object Oriented Analysis & Design, the McGraw-Hill.\
3. Mark Priestley: Practical Object-Oriented Design with UML,TATA McGrawHill
4. Appling UML and Patterns: An introduction to Object – Oriented Analysis and
Design and Unified Process, Craig Larman, Pearson Education.
133
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13ECE084)MICROPROCESSORS AND INTERFACING
Course Objectives:
1. To become familiar with various types of microprocessors and their
programming.
2. To understand interfacing circuits necessary for various applications..
3. To learn various interfacing concepts.
4. To learn basic concepts of 80851 microcontroller.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
1. Gain extensive knowledge of various microprocessor and interfacing
techniques.
2. Apply the programming techniques in developing the assembly language
program for microprocessor applications.
3. Integration of hardware and software components.
4. Development of microprocessor and microcontroller based systems for
embedded applications.
UNIT I
General definitions of mini computers, Microprocessors, Micro controllers, and Digital
Signal Processors. Introduction to 8085 Microprocessor, Architecture of 8086
Microprocessor, Addressing modes of 8086, Instruction set of 8086.
UNIT II
Assembler directives, simple assembly language programs, procedures, and macros.
Pin diagram of 8086-Minimum mode and maximum mode of operation, Memory and
1/0 organization of 8086.
UNIT III
8255 PPI – various modes of operation and interfacing to 8086, D/A and A/D converter
to 8086 using 8255, memory interfacing to 8086.
UNIT IV
Serial Communication standards, serial data transfer schemes, 8251 USART
architecture and interfacing, RS-232, IEEE 488 standards. Interrupt structure of 8086,
Interrupt Vector Table, Need for 8259 Programmable Interrupt Controller.
134
UNIT V
Introduction to Microcontrollers, 8051 Microcontroller Architecture, I/O ports, memory
organization, counters and Timers, Serial data Input/Output, Interrupts. Addressing
modes, Instruction set of 8051, Simple programs.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Microprocessors and interfacing – Douglas V. Hall, TMH, 2nd Edition, 1999.
2. The 8051 microcontrollers and embedded systems- Mazidi and mazidi, PHI,
2000.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Micro computer systems, The 8086/8088 Family Architecture, Programming
and Design – Y.Liu and G.A. Gibson, PHI, 2nd edition.
2. Advanced microprocessors and Peripherals – A.K.Ray and K.M.Bhurchandi,
TMH, 2000.3. Micro
Computer System 8086/8088 Family Architecture Programming and Design –
By Liu and GA Gibson PHI, 2ndEdition
4. Microcontrollers and Applications, Ajay. V. Deshmukh, TMGH, 2005.
5. The 8085 Microprocessor: Architecture Programming and Interfacing –
K.Uday Kumar, B.S Umashankar, Pearson, 2008
135
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech CSE, IT – II SEM L P C
3 0 3
Open Elective (13ITD011)GREEN IT
Course Objectives:
1. Learn concepts of Trends and which has led to go green.
2. Identify and implement environmentally sound techniques to preserve power.
3. To analyze different techniques and technologies that will enhance Green IT
initiatives and to create Data centre Design & Redesign
4. To understand the purpose and application of virtualization technology.
5. To Know about Data Replication methods and Disk Technology Advancements.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. To Know the global green mantra is “Reduce, Reuse, Recycle.”.
2. To illustrate the importance of managing the E-waste.
3. To know how to Minimizing Power Issues, Cooling, Changing the way we work.
4. Understand concepts of Greening Process to redesign green Datacentre.
5. To recognize the need for virtual server implementation & desktop virtualization
and understand about Data Replication and Disk Technology
Advancements
Unit -I
Trends and Reasons to Go Green:
Overview and Issues, Problems, Cost savings, Current Initiatives and standards,
Global Initiatives
Unit- II
Consumption Issues
Minimizing Power Issues, Cooling, Changing the way we work, Going Paper less,
Recycling, Hardware Considerations,
Unit- III
The Greening Process
Data Center Design and Redesign, Greening your Information Systems, Staying Green
Unit- IV
Virtualization
Virtual Server Implementation Plan, Desktop Virtualization, Benefits, Desktop access,
Virtual Printing,
136
Unit -V
Data Replication and Disk Technology Advancements
Data Replication Methods, Disk Technology Advancements, The Green data Center,
Cloud Computing, Remote Monitoring
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Green IT-Reduce your information system’s Environmental Impact while
adding to the bottom line Toby J Velte, Anthony T Velte, Robert Elsenpeter
– McGrahill Publications, 2008
2. Foundation Of Green It, Consolidation, Virtualization, Efficiency, and Roi in
the Data Center, Marty Poniatowski- Prentice Hall Publications
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Green Computing and Green IT Best Practices on Regulations and Industry
Initiatives, Virtualization, Power Management, Materials Recycling and
Telecommuting By Jason Harris.
2. Green IT for Sustainable Business Practice- Mark G. O’ Neil, BCS The
chartered institute for IT
3. The Greening of IT: How Companies Can Make a Difference for the
Environment, John P. Lamb, Kindle Edition, IBM Press 2009.
137
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech CSE, IT – II SEM L P C
Open Elective 3 0 3
(13CED037)DISASTER MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives:
1. Understand the difference between a hazard and disaster
2. Know about various disasters and their impacts
3. Understand Different approaches of disaster risk reduction
4. Understand Disaster risks in India
Course Outcomes:
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be able to
1. Acquire the knowledge disaster Management
2. Understand the vulnerability of ecosystem and infrastructure due to a
disaster
3. Acquire the knowledge of Disaster Management Phases
4. Understand the hazard and vulnerability profile of India
UNIT-I: Introduction to disaster
Concepts and definitions (Disaster, Hazard, Vulnerability, Resilience, Risks)
UNIT-II: Disasters: Classifications, Causes, Impacts (including social, economic,
political, environment, health, psychosocial, etc.)
Differential impacts-in terms of caste, class, gender, age, location, disability Global
trends in disasters. Urban disaster, pandemics, complex emergencies, Climate
change
UNIT-III: Approaches to disaster Risk reduction
Disaster cycle-its analysis, phase, Culture of safety, prevention, mitigation and
preparedness, community based DRR, Structural measures, roles and responsibilities
of community. Panchayati Raj Institutions/Urban Local Bodies (PRIs/ULBs), states,
center and other stake-holders.
UNIT-IV: Inter-relationship between Disaster and Development
Factors affecting Vulnerabilities, differential impacts, impact of development projects
such as dams, embankments, change in land-use etc. Climate change Adaption.
Relevance of indigenous knowledge, appropriate technology and local resources.
UNIT-V: Disaster Risk Management in India
Hazard and vulnerability profile of India
Components of Disaster relief: Water, food, sanitation, shelter, health, waste
management Institutional arrangements (Mitigation, Response and Preparedness, DM
Act Policy, Other related polices, plan, programmes and legislation)
138
Project Work :( Field Work, Case Studies)
The project/fieldwork is meant for students to understand vulnerabilities and to work on
reducing disaster risks and to build a culture of safety. Projects must be conceived
creatively based on the geographic location and hazard.
Suggested Reading list:
1. Alexander David, Introduction in ‘Confronting Catastrophe’, oxford University
press, 2000
2. Andharia J. Vulnerability in disaster Discourse, JTCDM, Tata Institute of Social
Sciences working paper no.8, 2008
3. Blaikie, P, Cannon T, Davis I, Wisner B 1997. At Risk Natural Hazards, Peoples’
Vulnerability and Disaster, Rutledge.
4. oppola P Damon, 2007. Introduction to International Disaster Management.
5. Carter, Nick 1991.Disaster Management: A Disaster Manager’s Handbook. Asian
Development Bank, Manila Philippines.
6. Cuny,F.1983. Development and Disasters, Oxford University Press
7. Govt.of India; Disaster Management Act 2005,Government of India, New Delhi.
8. Government of India, 2009. National Disaster Management Policy
9. Gupta Anil K, Sreeja S. Nair. 2011 Environmental Knowledge for Disaster Risk
Management, NIDM, New Delhi
10. Indian Journal of Social Work 2002 Special Issue on Psychosocial Aspects of
Disasters Volume 63, Issue 2, April.
11. Kapur Anu 2010: Vulnerable India: A Geographical Study of Grim reality. Rawat
Publishers, Jaipur
12. Parasuraman S, Acharya Niru 2000 Analysis forms of vulnerability in disaster. The
Indian Journal of Social Work, Vol 61, issue 4, October
13. Pelling Mark, 2003 The Vulnerability of Cities: natural Disaster and Social
Resilience Earth scan Publishers, London
14. Reducing Risk of disasters in our communities, Disaster theory, Tearfund, 2006
15. UNISDR, Natural Disasters and Sustainable Development: Understanding the
links between Development, Environment and Natural Disasters, Background
Paper No.5 2002
16. IFRC 2005 World Disaster Report: Focus on Information in Disaster, pp. 182-225.
17. Publications of National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM) and National
Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) including various Guidelines for Disaster
Management are available at:
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF DISASTER MANAGEMENT,
(Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India),
5-B, IIPA Campus, IP Estate, Mahatma Gandhi Marg,
139
New Delhi – 110002 (INDIA), Tel: - 011-23702432, 23705583, 23766146
TeleFax: 011-23702442, 23702446
NATIONAL DISASTER MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY,
NDMA Bhavan,
A-1, safdarjung Enclave,New Delhi – 110029
Telephone: 011-26701700, Email: info@ndma.gov.in
Control Room
Telephone: 011 – 26701728, Fax: 011 – 26701729
Web sites and Web Resources
1. NIDM Publications at http://nidm.gov.in Official Website of National Institute of
Disaster Management (NIDM), Ministry of Home Affairs, Govt. Of India.
2. http://cwc.gov.in, http://ekdrm.net, http://www.emdat.be,
http://www.nws.noaa.gov.in
3. http://pubs.usgs.gov, http://nidm.gov.in, http://www/imd.gov.in/
140
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech IT – II SEM L P C
3 0 3
Open Elective (13CSE016)INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
Course Objectives:
1. To make students familiar about the different intellectual property rights;
copyright, patents, trademarks, trade dress, designs and know-how the
different levels of intellectual property strategy.
2. To analyze the appropriate intellectual property strategy in a given market.
3. To understand innovations in engineering and other domains.
4. To know the issues and challenges involved with intellectual property
valuation and the strategic requirements of intellectual property transactions
5. To be familiar with patents, copyrights and various acts related to
innovations.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students are expected to:
1. Define and identify various terms related to IPRs, obtain, use and protect the
various IPRs in a business environment to form an appropriate IP strategy for
the relevant market
2. To analyze the situation of IPR in the Indian context with that of global
scenario and understand the patenting process through various case studies.
3. Identify and explain the tasks and significance of an IP manager and
demonstrate competence in critical reasoning, problem solving and decision
making
4. Demonstrate a deep understanding of the language of IP law and how to
make the best use of legal professionals involved in IPRs
5. Demonstrate a critical understanding of the issues involved in and choose
appropriate methods for extracting value from an organizations IPR
(licensing, joint venture, borrowing, raising capital etc.)..
.
UNIT-I
Introduction – Invention and Creativity – Intellectual Property (IP) – Importance –
Protection of IPR – Basic types of property i. Movable Property ii. Immovable Property
and iii. Intellectual Property.
UNIT-II
IP – Patents – Copyrights and related rights – Trade Marks and rights arising from
Trademark registration – Definitions – Industrial Designs and Integrated circuits –
141
Protection of Geographical Indications at national and International levels – Application
Procedures..
UNIT-III
International convention relating to Intellectual Property – Establishment of WIPO –
Mission and Activities – History – General Agreement on Trade and Tariff (GATT).
UNIT-IV
Indian Position Vs WTO and Strategies – Indian IPR legislations – commitments to
WTO-Patent Ordinance and the Bill – Draft of a national Intellectual Property Policy –
Present against unfair competition.
UNIT-V
Case Studies on – Patents (Basumati rice, turmeric, Neem, etc.) – Copyright and
related rights – Trade Marks – Industrial design and Integrated circuits – Geographic
indications – Protection against unfair competition.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Subbaram N.R. “Handbook of Indian Patent Law and Practice “, S.
Viswanathan Printers and Publishers Pvt. Ltd., 1998.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. P. Narayanan; Law of Copyright and Industrial Designs; Eastern law House,
Delhi, 2010
2. Prabhuddha Ganguli: ‘ Intellectual Property Rights” Tata Mc-Graw –Hill, New
Delhi
3. M.Ashok Kumar and Mohd.Iqbal Ali: “Intellectual Property Right” Serials Pub.
142
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech CSE, IT – II SEM L P C
Open Elective 3 0 3
(13EEE015)RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES
Course Objectives:
1. To inculcate the awareness of energy conservation in students
2. To understand the use of renewable energy sources for electrical power
generation
3. To know different energy storage methods
4. To learn about environmental effects of energy conversion
Course Outcomes:
Upon the completion of this subject, the student will be able
1. To use different renewable energy sources to produce electrical power
2. To minimize the use of conventional energy sources to produce electrical
energy
3. To identify the fact that the conventional energy resources are depleted
4. To store energy and to avoid the environmental pollution
UNIT- I
PRINCIPLES OF SOLAR RADIATION
Role and Potential of New and Renewable source, the solar energy option,
Environmental impact of solar power, Physics of the Sun, The solar constant,
Extraterrestrial and Terrestrial solar radiation, Solar radiation on titled surface,
Instruments for measuring solar radiation and sun shine, solar radiation data.
UNIT- II
SOLAR ENERGY COLLECTION & APPLICATIONS
Flat Plate Collectors and Concentrating Collectors, Classification of concentrating
collectors, Orientation and Thermal analysis, advanced collectors, Solar ponds, Solar
Energy Applications - solar heating/cooling techniques, solar distillation and drying,
Photovoltaic Energy Conversion.
UNIT- III
WIND ENERGY
Sources and potentials, Horizontal and Vertical axis wind mills - Types, Blade Design,
Performance characteristics, Betz criteria, Induction Generators for Wind power
Generation, MHD Generation.
143
UNIT - IV
BIO-MASS & DEC
Principles of Bio-Conversion, Anaerobic/aerobic digestion, Types of Bio-gas Digesters,
gas yield, Combustion characteristics of bio-gas, Utilization for cooking, Economic
aspects.
Direct Energy Conversion, Need for DEC, Principles of DEC, Carnot Cycle and
Limitations.
UNIT - V
HARNESSING GEOTHERMAL ENERGY & OCEAN ENERGY
Resources of Geothermal Energy, Types of wells, Methods of harnessing the energy,
potential in India, Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion, Principles, Utilization, Setting of
OTEC plants, Thermodynamic cycles, Tidal and Wave energy: Potential and
Conversion Techniques, Mini-Hydel Power plants.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Non-Conventional Energy Sources by G.D.Rai, Khanna Publishers.
2. Renewable Energy Resources by Twidell and Wier, CRC Press (Taylor and
Francis).
3. Non- Conventional energy resources by B.H.Khan, Tata Mc Graw-Hill, 2006.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Renewable Energy Resources by Tiwari and Ghosal, Narosa.
2. Renewable Energy Technologies by Ramesh and Kumar, Narosa.
3. Non-Conventional Energy Systems by K Mittal, Wheeler Publishing House.
4. Renewable Energy Sources and Emerging Technologies by D.P.Kothari,
K.C.Singhal, PHI.
144
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech CSE, IT – II SEM L P C
Open Elective 3 0 3
(13AED010)MODERN AUTOMOBILE TECHNOLOGIES
Course Prerequisites: Physics, Basic Electrical Engineering.
Course Objectives:
1. Understand the basics of Automobile Engineering without any previous
knowledge regarding Automobiles.
2. Understand the difference between IC engine Vehicle and HEV/EV.
3. Appreciate the current technologies in the Automobile industry
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to
1. Apply fundamental knowledge of Automobile Engineering for design of
Safety systems like AIRBAGS,ABS etc.,.
2. Apply fundamental knowledge of Automobile Engineering for design of
Comfort systems like Power steering, Collapsible and tiltable steering
column, and power windows. etc.,.
3. Gain the knowledge of HEV/EVs and their trouble shooting.
UNIT-I:
INTRODUCTION:
Basic layout of an automobile with reference to power plant, power required for
propulsion, various resistances to motion of the automobile, Types of tyres, Basic
steering systems, Brakes, Necessity of brake, Two and Three wheelers: Classification
of two and three wheelers.
UNIT-II:
ELECTRIC VEHICLES:
Layout of an electric vehicle, performance of electric vehicles – traction motor
haracteristics, tractive effort, transmission requirements.
UNIT-III:
HYBRID VEHICLES:
Concepts of hybrid electric drive train, types, architecture of series and parallel hybrid
electric drive train, merits and demerits, series and parallel hybrid electric drive train
design.
UNIT-IV:
SAFETY SYSTEMS:
Airbags, seat belt tightening system, collision warning systems, child lock, anti - lock
braking systems, anti - spin regulation, traction control systems.
145
TELEMATICS:
Global positioning systems, geographical information systems, navigation systems,
automotive vision system, road recognition, driver assistance systems.
UNIT-V:
SECURITY SYSTEMS:
Anti theft technologies, smart card system, number plate coding.
COMFORT SYSTEMS:
Active suspension systems, requirement and characteristics, different types, power
steering, collapsible and tiltable steering column, power windows.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. “Modern Electric, Hybrid Electric and Fuel Cell Vehicles Fundamentals,
Theory and Design”, Mehrdad Ehsani, Yimin Gao, sebastien E. Gay and Ali
Emadi: CRS Press, 2004.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. “Automotive Hand Book” Robert Bosch, SAE, 5th edition, 2000.
2. “Intelligent Vehicle Technologies”, Ljubo Vlacic, Michel Parent and Fumio
Harashima, Butterworth-Heinemann publications, Oxford, 2001.
3. “Navigation and Intelligent Transportation Systems – Progress in
Technology”, Ronald K Jurgen, Automotive Electronics Series, SAE, USA,
1998.
146
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13ITD105)OBJECT ORIENTED ANALYSIS and DESIGN AND SOFTWARE
TESTING LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. To learn basic OO analysis and design skills through an elaborate case study
2. To use the case studies to draw the UML diagrams
3. Using the identified scenarios find the interaction between objects and
represent them using UML Interaction diagrams.
4. Finding the bugs and fixing the bugs
5. Knowledge on test management and test plan document
6. Know how to test a webpage and server and to know the concept of test
Management tool
Course Outcomes:
1. To understand the real time case studies and develop UML diagrams like
class ,use case, interaction, activity, state chart, component & deployment
diagrams using concepts.
2. To develop a design diagrams for their mini project.
3. Apply fundamental knowledge of Testing in Real time scenarios.
4. Test a webpage and server.
5. Understand and Applying the Techniques in Software Development Life
cycle.
SYLLABUS
PART I:
The student should take up the case study of unified Library application as mentioned
in the theory and model it in different views i:e Use case view, Logical view,
Component view, Deployment view, Database Design, Forward & Reverse engineering
and generation of documentation of the project
PART II:
Students are asked to draw the following diagrams using UML for an ATM system
whose description is given below.
UML diagrams to be developed are:
1. Use Case Diagram.
2. Class Diagram.
147
3. Sequence Diagram.
4. Collaboration Diagram.
5. State Diagram
6. Activity Diagram.
7. Component Diagram
8. Deployment Diagram.
9. Test Design.
Description for an ATM System
The software to be designed will control a simulated automated teller machine (ATM)
having a magnetic stripe reader for reading an ATM card, a customer console
(keyboard and display) for interaction with the customer, a slot for depositing
envelopes, a dispenser for cash (in multiples of Rs. 100, Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000), a
printer for printing customer receipts, and a key-operated switch to allow an operator to
start or stop the machine. The ATM will communicate with the bank's computer over an
appropriate communication link. (The software on the latter is not part of the
requirements for this problem.)
The ATM will service one customer at a time. A customer will be required to insert an
ATM card and enter a personal identification number (PIN) - both of which will be sent
to the bank for validation as part of each transaction. The customer will then be able to
perform one or more transactions. The card will be retained in the machine until the
customer indicates that he/she desires no further transactions, at which point it will be
returned - except as noted below.
The ATM must be able to provide the following services to the customer:
1. A customer must be able to make a cash withdrawal from any suitable account
linked to the card, in multiples of Rs. 100 or Rs. 500 or Rs. 1000. Approval must
be obtained from the bank before cash is dispensed.
2. A customer must be able to make a deposit to any account linked to the card,
consisting of cash and/or checks in an envelope. The customer will
enter the amount of the deposit into the ATM, subject to manual verification when
the envelope is removed from the machine by an operator. Approval must be
obtained from the bank before physically accepting the envelope.
3. A customer must be able to make a transfer of money between any two accounts
linked to the card.
4. A customer must be able to make a balance inquiry of any account linked to the
card.
5. A customer must be able to abort a transaction in progress by pressing the Cancel
key instead of responding to a request from the machine.
The ATM will communicate each transaction to the bank and obtain verification
that it was allowed by the bank. Ordinarily, a transaction will be considered
148
complete by the bank once it has been approved. In the case of a deposit, a
second message will be sent to the bank indicating that the customer has
deposited the envelope. (If the customer fails to deposit the envelope within the
timeout period, or presses cancel instead, no second message will be sent to the
bank and the deposit will not be credited to the customer.)
If the bank determines that the customer's PIN is invalid, the customer will be
required to re-enter the PIN before a transaction can proceed. If the customer is
unable to successfully enter the PIN after three tries, the card will be permanently
retained by the machine, and the customer will have to contact the bank to get it
back.
If a transaction fails for any reason other than an invalid PIN, the ATM will display
an explanation of the problem, and will then ask the customer whether he/she
wants to do another transaction.
The ATM will provide the customer with a printed receipt for each successful
transaction
The ATM will have a key-operated switch that will allow an operator to start and
stop the servicing of customers. After turning the switch to the "on" position, the
operator will be required to verify and enter the total cash on hand. The machine
can only be turned off when it is not servicing a customer. When the switch is
moved to the "off" position, the machine will shut down, so that the operator may
remove deposit envelopes and reload the machine with cash, blank receipts, etc.
SOFTWARE TESTING LABORATORY
Software Testing Lab
List of Experiments:
1. Write programs in „C‟ Language to demonstrate the working of the following
constructs:
i) do...while ii) while….do iii) if…else iv) switch v) for
2. “A program written in „C‟ language for Matrix Multiplication fails” Introspect the
causes for its failure and write down the possible reasons for its failure.
3. Take any system (e.g. ATM system) and study its system specifications and report
the various bugs.
4. Create a test plan document for any application (e.g. Library Management
System)
5. Study of Win Runner/QTP for functional testing.
6. Study of Load Runner for Load/Stress testing
7. Testing the performance of a webpage
8. Testing the performance of a Database Server
9. Study of any test management tool (e.g. Test Director)
149
10. Study of any open source-testing tool (e.g. Test Link)
TEXT BOOKS:
1. The Unified Modeling Language User Guide, Pearson Education: Grady Booch,
James Rumbaugh, Ivar Jacobson.
2. UML 2 Toolkit, WILEY-Dreamtech India Pvt. Ltd.:Hans-Erik Eriksson, Magnus
Penker, Brian Lyons, David Fado.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Fundamentals of Object Oriented Design in UML, Pearson Education: Meilir Page-
Jones.
2. Object Oriented Analysis & Design :The McGraw-Hill. Atul Kahate
3. Practical Object-Oriented Design with UML:TATA McGrawHill ,Mark Priestley:
4. Applying UML and Patterns: An introduction to Object – Oriented Analysis and
Design and Unified Process, Craig Larman, Pearson Education.
150
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13CSE108)DATA WAREHOUSING AND MINING LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. To introduce students to the basic concepts and techniques of Data Mining.
2. Performing data preprocessing tasks for data mining in Weka
3. To perform classification on data sets using the Weka machine learning
toolkit
4. Implement and apply basic algorithms for supervised and unsupervised
learning.
5. To develop skills of using recent data mining software for solving practical
problems.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students are expected to:
1. At the end of the semester, successful students will have fundamental
understanding of data mining algorithms and their applications.
2. Consequently they will have necessary skills to effectively apply data mining
techniques to solve real business problems.
3. Apply preprocessing statistical methods for any given raw data.
4. Evaluate the performance of different data mining algorithms.
Analyze the results generated to determine if patterns of clusters were detected in
the data sets.
DMDW Lab Experiments:
1. Introduction to the Weka machine learning toolkit – Part 1
2. Introduction to the Weka machine learning toolkit – Part 2
3. Classification using the Weka toolkit
4. Performing data preprocessing for data mining in Weka
5. Performing clustering in Weka
6. Association rule analysis in Weka
TASK 7:
Title
Introduction to the Weka machine learning toolkit
Aim
To learn to use the Weak machine learning toolkit
Requirements
How do you load Weka?
1. What options are available on main panel?
151
2. What is the purpose of the the following in Weka:
1. The Explorer
2. The Knowledge Flow interface
3. The TASKer
4. The command-line interface
3. Describe the arfffile format.
4. Press the Explorer button on the main panel and load the weather dataset
and answer the following questions
1. How many instances are there in the dataset?
2. State the names of the attributes along with their types and values.
3. What is the class attribute?
4. In the histogram on the bottom-right, which attributes are plotted on the
X,Y-Axes? How do you change the attributes plotted on the X,Y-axes?
5. How will you determine how many instances of each class are present in
the data?
6. What happens with the Visualize All button is pressed?
7. How will you view the instances in the dataset? How will you save the
changes?
TASK 8:
1. What is the purpose of the following in the Explorer Panel?
1. The Preprocess panel
1. What are the main sections of the Preprocess panel?
2. What are the primary sources of data in Weka?
2. The Classify panel
3. The Cluster panel
4. The Associate panel
5. The Select Attributes panel
6. The Visualize panel.
2. Load the weather dataset and perform the following tasks:
1. Use the unsupervised filter Remove With Values to remove all instances
where the
attribute ‘humidity’ has the value ‘high’?
2. Undo the effect of the filter.
3. Answer the following questions:
1. What is meant by filtering in Weka?
2. Which panel is used for filtering a dataset?
3. What are the two main types of filters in Weka?
4. What is the difference between the two types of filters? What is the
difference between and attribute filter and an instance filter?
152
3. Load the iris dataset and perform the following tasks:
1. Press the Visualize tab to view the Visualizer panel.
2. What is the purpose of the Visualizer?
3. Select one panel in the Visualizer and TASK with the buttons on the panel.
TASK 9:
Title
Classification using the Weka toolkit
Aim
To perform classification on data sets using the Weka machine learning toolkit
Requirements
1. Load the ‘weather.nominal.arff’ dataset into Weka and run Id3 classification
algorithm. Answer the following questions
1. List the attributes of the given relation along with the type details
2. Create a table of the weather.nominal.arff data
3. Study the classifier output and answer the following questions
1. Draw the decision tree generated by the classifier
2. Compute the entropy values for each of the attributes
3. What is the relationship between the attribute entropy values and the
nodes of the decision tree?
4. Draw the confusion matrix? What information does the confusion matrix provide?
5. Describe the following quantities:
1. TP Rate 2. FP Rate
3. Precision 4. Recall
TASK 10:
Title
Performing data preprocessing tasks for data mining in Weka
Aim
To learn how to use various data preprocessing methods as a part of the data mining
Requirements
Application of Discretization Filters
1. Perform the following tasks
1. Load the 'sick.arff' dataset
2. How many instances does this dataset have?
3. How many attributes does it have?
4. Which is the class attribute and what are the characteristics of this attribute?
5. How many attributes is numeric? What are the attribute indexes of the numeric
attributes?
6. Apply the Naive Bayes classifier. What is the accuracy of the classifier?
2. Perform the following tasks:
153
1. Load the 'sick.arff' dataset.
2. Apply the supervised discretization filter.
3. What is the effect of this filter on the attributes?
4. How many distinct ranges have been created for each attribute?
5. Undo the filter applied in the previous step.
6. Apply the unsupervised discretization filter. Do this twice:
1. In this step, set 'bins'=5
2. In this step, set 'bins'=10
3. What is the effect of the unsupervised filter filter on the datset?
7. Run the the Naive Bayes classifier after apply the following filters
1. Unsupervised discretized with 'bins'=5
2. Unsupervised discretized with 'bins'=10
3. Unsupervised discretized with 'bins''=20.
8. Compare the accuracy of the following cases
1. Naive Bayes without discretization filters
2. Naive Bayes with a supervised discretization filter
3. Naive Bayes with an unsupervised discretization filter with different values
for the 'bins' attributes.
TASK 11:
Title
Performing clustering using the data mining toolkit
Aim
To learn to use clustering techniques
Requirements
1. Perform the following tasks:
1. Load the ‘bank.arff’ data set in Weka.
2. Write down the following details regarding the attributes:
1. names
2. types
3. values.
3. Run the Simple K-Means clustering algorithm on the dataset
1. How many clusters are created?
2. What are the number of instances and percentage figures in each cluster?
3. What is the number of iterations that were required?
4. What is the sum of squared errors? What does it represent?
5. Tabulate the characteristics of the centroid of each cluster.
6. Visualize the results of this clustering (let the X-axis represent the cluster
name, and the Y-axis represent the instance number)
1. Is there a significant variation in age between clusters?
154
2. Which clusters are predominated by males and which clusters are
predominated by females?
3. What can be said about the values of the region attribute in each cluster?
4. What can be said about the variation of income between clusters?
5. Which clusters are dominated by married people and which clusters are
dominated by unmarried people?
6. How do the clusters differ with respect to the number of children?
7. Which cluster has the highest number of people with cars?
8. Which clusters are predominated by people with savings accounts?
9. What can be said about the variation of current accounts between clusters?
10. Which clusters comprise mostly of people who buy the PEP product and which
ones are comprised of people who do not buy the PEP product?
4. Run the SimpleKMeans algorithm for values of K (no. of clusters) ranging from
1 to 12. Tabulate the sum of squared errors for each run. What do you observe
about the trend of the sum of squared errors?
5. For the run with K=12, answer the following questions:
1. Is there a significant variation in age between clusters?
2. Which clusters are predominated by males and which clusters are
predominated by females?
3. How do the clusters differ with respect to the number of children?
4. Which clusters comprise of people who buy the PEP product and which ones
are comprised of people who do not buy the PEP product?
5. Do you see any differences in your ability to evaluate the characteristics of
clusters generated for K=6 versus K=12? Why does this difference arise?
TASK 12:
Title
Using Weka to determine Association rules
Aim
To learn to use Association algorithms on datasets
Requirements
1. Perform the following tasks
1. Define the following terms
1. item and item set
2. Association
3. Association rule
4. Support of an association rule
5. Confidence of an association rule
6. Large item set
7. Association rule problem
155
2. What is the purpose of the Apriori Algorithm
2. Perform the following tasks:
1. Load the ‘vote.arff’ dataset
2. Apply the Apriori association rule
3. What is the support threshold used? What is the confidence threshold used?
4. Write down the top 6 rules along with the support and confidence values.
5. What does the figure to the left of the arrow in the association rule represent?
6. What does the figure to the right of the arrow in the association rule represent?
7. For rule 8, verify that numerical values used for computation of support and
confidence is
In accordance with the data by using the Preprocess panel. Then compute the support
and confidence values. Are they above the threshold values?
3. Perform the following tasks:
1. Load the dataset ‘weather.nominal.arff’.
2. Apply the Apriori association rule
1. Consider the rule “temperature=hot ==> humidity=normal.” Compute the
support and confidence for this rule.
2. Consider the rule “temperature=hot humidity=high ==> windy=TRUE.”
Consider the support and confidence for this rule.
3. Is it possible to have a rule like the following rule:
“outlook=sunny temperature=cool” ==> humidity=normal play=yes
4. Perform the following tasks:
1. Load the bank-data.csv file.
2. Apply the Apriori association rule algorithm. What is the result? Why?
3. Apply the supervised discretization filter to the age and income attributes.
4. Run the Apriori rule algorithm
5. List the rules that were generated.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Data mining: Concepts and Techniques, Jiawei Han and Micheline Kamber, 2nd
Edition, Elsevier, 2006.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. SQL‐PL/SQL by Ivan Bayrose
2. Data Warehousing Fundamentals By Paulraj
3. Data Mining Introductory & Advanced Topic by Margaret H. Dunham
4. Data Mining Techniques – ARUN K PUJARI, University Press.
5. Data Mining for Association Rules and Sequential Patterns: Sequential and
Parallel Algorithms, Jean-Marc Adamo, ISBN: 0387950486
156
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13ECE178)MICROPROCESSORS AND INTERFACING LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. To learn fundamental programming skills in Assembly language.
2. To program 8086 processor to perform various tasks.
3. To interface various devices to 8086 processor.
4. To design and implement simple microprocessor based embedded systems.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
1. To design a system component or process to meet desired needs.
2. To use techniques, skills and modern engineering tools.
3. To program microprocessor/microcontroller based systems using Assembly
language.
4. To implement a working prototype of their project.
I. Microprocessor 8086
1. Introduction to MASM
2. Arithmetic operations – Multi byte addition and subtraction, multiplication and
division-signed and unsigned arithmetic operation, ASCII-arithmetic operation.
3. Logical operations- Shift and rotate- converting packed BCD to unpacked BCD,
BCD to ASCII conversion.
4. By using string operation and instruction prefix: block transfer, reverse string,
sorting, inserting, deleting, length of the string, string comparison.
5. DOS programming: Reading keyboard (Buffered with and without echo)- Display
characters, strings.
II. Interfacing
6. Interface DAC with 8086 to generate square wave using PPI
7. Interface DAC with 8086 to generate sinusoidal wave using PPI
8. Interface DAC with 8086 to generate triangular wave using PPI
9. Interface DAC with 8086 to generate stair case wave using PPI
10. Convert analog data to digital data using ADC through 8255 PPI.
11. Parallel communication between two 8086 microprocessors.
12. Interface an 8086 microprocessor trainer kit to PC and establish a communication
between them through RS 232.
157
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech CSE, IT–I SEM L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13ITD012)WEB TECHNOLOGIES
Course Objectives:
The main objectives are summarized as shown below:
1. Giving the students the insights of the Internet programming and how to
design and implement complete applications over the web.
2. It covers the notions of Web servers and Web Application Servers,
Design Methodologies with concentration on Object-Oriented concepts,
Client-Side
3. Programming, Server-Side Programming, Active Server Pages,
Database Connectivity to web applications, Adding Dynamic content to
web applications,
4. It also concentrates on the usage of recent platforms used in developing
web applications such as the .Net environment like C#, XML, and
ASP.Net.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. Analyze a web page and identify its elements and attributes,Create
web pages using XHTML and Cascading Styles sheets.
2. Build dynamic web pages using JavaScript (client side
programming) .
3. Create XML documents, XML Schema.
4. Build and consume web services.
UNIT-I
HTML Common tags: List, Tables, images, forms, Frames; Cascading Style sheets.
Introduction to Java Scripts, Objects in Java Script, Dynamic HTML with Java Script.
UNIT-II
Introduction to XML: Document type definition, XML Schemas, Document Object
model, Presenting XML, Using XML Processors: DOM and SAX.
Java Beans: Introduction to Java Beans, Advantages of Java Beans, BDK
Introspection, Using Bound properties, Bean Info Interface, Constrained properties
Persistence, Customizes, Java Beans API, Introduction to EJB’s.
UNIT-III
Web Servers and Servlets: Tomcat web server, Installing the Java Software
Development Kit, Tomcat Server & Testing Tomcat, Introduction to Servelets: Lifecycle
158
of a Serverlet, JSDK, The Servelet API, The javax.servelet Package, Reading Servelet
parameters, Reading Initialization parameters. The javax.servelet HTTP package,
Handling Http Request & Responses, Using Cookies-Session Tracking, Security
Issues.
UNIT-IV
Database Access: Database Programming using JDBC, JDBC drivers,Studying
Javax.sql.* package, Accessing a Database from a Servelet.
Introduction to JSP: The Problem with Servelet. The Anatomy of a JSP Page, JSP
Processing. JSP Application Design with MVC Setting Up and JSP Environment.
UNIT-V
JSP Application Development: Generating Dynamic Content, Using Scripting
Elements Implicit JSP Objects, Conditional Processing : Displaying Values Using an
Expression to Set an Attribute, Declaring Variables and Methods Error Handling and
Debugging Sharing Data Between JSP pages, Requests, and Users Passing Control
and Date between Pages – Sharing Session and Application Data – Memory Usage
Considerations, Accessing a Database from a JSP page, Deploying JAVA Beans in a
JSP Page, Introduction to struts framework.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Web Programming, building internet applications, Chris Bates 2nd edition,
WILEY Dreamtech (UNIT s 1, 2)
2. Core servlets and javaserver pages volume 1: core technologies By Marty
Hall and Larry Brown Pearson (UNITs 3,4,5)
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Programming world wide web-Sebesta,Pearson
2. Internet and World Wide Web – How to program by Dietel and Nieto
PHI/Pearson Education Asia.
3. Jakarta Struts Cookbook , Bill Siggelkow, S P D O’Reilly.
4. Java : The complete Reference, 7th Edition by Herbert Schildt. TMH.
159
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech CSE, IT–I SEM L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13CMS002)MANAGEMENT SCIENCE
Course Prerequisites: Business Economics and Financial Analysis
Course Objectives:
The objective of this course is to:
1. Understand the principles, functions, theories and practices of different
management areas and to provide them with practical exposure to cases of
success/failure in business.
2. Expose with a systematic and critical understanding of organizational theory,
structures and design.
3. Comprehend conceptual models of strategic management and to familiarize
with the tools of operations and project management.
4. Understand the role of human relations in the management of operations and
to provide basic insights into contemporary management practices.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course students should be able to:
1. Function effectively in multidisciplinary teams to accomplish a common goal
of organizations.
2. Apply theories to improve the practice of management.
3. Appreciate the management challenges associated with high levels of
change in the organizations.
4. Develop global vision and management skills at both a strategic level and
interpersonal level.
UNIT-I
Introduction to Management: Concepts of Management and organization- nature,
importance and Functions of Management, Taylor’s Scientific Management Theory,
Fayol’s Principles of Management, Mayo’s Hawthorne Experiments, Maslow’s Theory
of Human Needs, Douglas McGregor’s Theory X and Theory Y, Herzberg’s Two-Factor
Theory of Motivation, System and Contingency approach to management, Planning:
Meaning – Significance – Types of Plans – Decision making & Steps in Decision
making Process, Leadership Styles, Social responsibilities of Management.
Organizing: Meaning – Features –process of organization – Principles of organization
- Elements of organizations – Organization chart – span of control (Graicunas
Formulae), Centralisation and Decentralisation, Types of mechanistic and organic
structures of organisation (Line organization, Line and staff organization, functional
organization, Committee organization, matrix organization, Virtual Organisation,
160
Cellular Organisation, team structure, boundaryless organization, inverted pyramid
structure, lean and flat organization structure) and their merits, demerits and suitability.
UNIT-II
Human Resources Management : Concepts of HRM, Basic functions of HR Manager:
Human Resource Planning( definition, objectives and process), Recruitment(definition,
sources and techniques), Selection (definition & process), induction and orientation,
Training and Development(definition, need and methods),employee exit process,
employee relations management, employee compensation and benefits administration,
Job Evaluation( objectives, process & methods) and performance appraisals (
objectives, process &methods)
UNIT-III
Strategic Management : Mission, Goals, Objectives, Policy, Strategy, Programmes,
Elements of Corporate Planning Process, Environmental Scanning, Value Chain
Analysis, BCG Matrix, SWOT Analysis, Steps in Strategy Formulation and
Implementation, Generic Strategy alternatives, balance score card, Capability Maturity
Model (CMM)/People capability maturity model (PCMM).
UNIT-IV
Operations Management: Plant location, Types of Plant Layout-Methods of
production (Job, batch and Mass Production), Work Study -Basic procedure involved in
Method Study and Work Measurement
Materials Management: Objectives, Need for Inventory control, EOQ, ABC Analysis,
Purchase Procedure, value analysis, JIT, six sigma, TQM, supply chain management,
Stores Management and Stores Records.
Marketing: Functions of Marketing, Marketing Mix, and Marketing Strategies based on
Product Life Cycle, Channels of distribution
UNIT-V
Project Management (PERT/CPM) : Network Analysis, Programme Evaluation and
Review Technique (PERT), Critical Path Method (CPM), Identifying critical path,
Probability of Completing the project within given time, Project Cost Analysis, Project
Crashing. (Simple problems)
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Management Science, Aryasri TMH,2009
2. Management, Stoner, Freeman, Gilbert, 6th Ed, Pearson Education, New
Delhi, 2004
3. Principles and Practice Management - L.M.Prasad, Sultan chand
Publications, New Delh
161
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Principles of Marketing , Kotler Philip, Garyarmstrong, Prafullay. Agnihotri,
EU Haque, 2010, 13TH Ed, Pearson Education Prentice Hall of India.
2. Human Resource Management, Michael Armstrong, 2010, Kogan Page.
3. Quantitative Techniques in Management” N.D.Vohra, 2010, 4th Ed, TMH
4. Operations Management, Mahadevan. B, 2010, Pearson Education.
5. Strategic Management, V.S.P. Rao and V., Hari Krishna, 2010, Text and
Cases, Excel Books, New Delhi.
162
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech CSE, IT– I SEM L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13ITD014)MOBILE APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT using ANDROID
Course Objectives:
1. Mobile Application Development course exposes the students to
essentials of mobile apps development.
2. The core modules of this subject include designing, developing, testing,
signing, packaging and distributing high quality mobile apps.
3. This course aims to teach mobile app development using Android as the
development platform.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, student shall be able to:
1. Appreciate the Mobility landscape
2. Familiarize with Mobile apps development aspects
3. Design and develop mobile apps, using Android as development
platform, with key focus on user experience design, native data handling
and background tasks and notifications.
4. Perform testing, signing, packaging and distribution of mobile apps
UNIT I
Introduction to Mobile
A brief history of Mobile, The Mobile Ecosystem, Why Mobile?, Types of Mobile
Applications, Mobile Information Architecture, Mobile Design, Mobile 2.0, Mobile Web
development, Small Computing Device Requirements.
J2ME Overview
The World of Java, Inside J2ME, J2ME Architecture, MIDlet Programming, J2ME
Wireless Toolkit, Hello World J2ME Style, Multiple MIDlets in a MIDlet Suite
UNIT II
Introduction to Android
History of Mobile Software Development, The Open Handset Alliance, The Android
Platform, Android SDK, Eclipse Installation, Android Installation, Building a Sample
Android application
UNIT III
Android Application Design Essentials
Anatomy of an Android applications, Android terminologies, Application Context,
Activities, Services, Intents, Receiving and Broadcasting Intents, Android Manifest File
and its common settings, Using Intent Filter, Permissions, Managing Application
resources in a hierarchy, Working with different types of resources
163
UNIT IV
Android User Interface Design Essentials
User Interface Screen elements, Designing User Interfaces with Layouts, Drawing and
Working with Animation
UNIT V
Using Common Android APIs
Using Android Data and Storage APIs, Managing data using SQLite, Sharing Data
between Applications with Content Providers, Using Android Networking APIs, Using
Android Web APIs, Using Android Telephony APIs, Deploying Android Application to
the World
TEXT BOOKS
• J2ME: The Complete Reference, James Keogh, Tata McGrawHill
• Lauren Darcey and Shane Conder, “Android Wireless Application
Development”, Pearson Education, 2nd ed. (2011)
REFERENCE BOOKS:
• Reto Meier, “Professional Android 2 Application Development”, Wiley India
Pvt Ltd
• Mark L Murphy, “Beginning Android”, Wiley India Pvt Ltd
• Sayed Y Hashimi and Satya Komatineni, “Pro Android”, Wiley India Pvt Ltd
• devloper.android.com (web)
• Android Application Development All in one for Dummies by Barry Burd,
Edition: I
• Teach Yourself Android Application Development In 24 Hours, Edition:I,
Publication: SAMS
164
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY,
IV Year B.Tech CSE, IT–I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective - I 3 0 3
(13ITD013)NETWORK PROGRAMMING
Course Objectives:
1. Understand the architecture of client-server, and socket programming
2. Recognize the deferent protocols like TCP, UDP, and RPC and their
applications
3. An understanding of the design considerations in building of network
applications
4. An in depth knowledge of Berkley sockets, and the system calls needed to
support network programming
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. underlay the network hardware, network topologies, and protocols
2. able to design experiment WIN32 and/or UNIX system calls applications,
multi-Threading, access controls, signal processing, and inter-process
communication.
3. Design considerations in creating network applications.
4. Able to design client server application to support communication
interfaces.
UNIT-I
Introduction to Network Programming: OSI model, UNIX standards, TCP and UDP
& TCP connection establishment and Format, Buffer sizes and limitation, standard
internet services, Protocol usage by common internet application.
UNIT-II
Sockets: Address structures, value – result arguments, Byte ordering and
manipulation function and related functions Elementary TCP sockets – Socket,
connect, bind, listen, accept, fork and exec function, concurrent servers. Close function
and related function.
UNIT-III
TCP client server: Introduction, TCP Echo server functions, Normal startup, Posix
Signal Handling, Server with multiple clients – boundary conditions: Crashing and
rebooting of server host, shutdown of server host.
UNIT-IV
165
I/O Multiplexing and socket options: I/O Models, select function, Batch input,
shutdown function, poll function, TCP Echo server, getsockopt and setsockopt
functions. Socket states, Generic socket option IPV6 socket option ICMPV6 socket
option IPV6 socket option and TCP socket options.
UNIT-V
Elementary UDP sockets: Introduction UDP Echo server function, lost datagram,
summary of UDP example, Lack of flow control with UDP, determining outgoing
interface with UDP.
Elementary name and Address conversions: DNS, gethostbyName function,
Resolver option, Function and IPV6 support, and uname function, other networking
information.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. UNIX Network Programming, Vol. I, Sockets API, 2nd Edition. – W.Richard
Stevens, Pearson Edn. Asia.
2. UNIX Network Programming, 1st Edition,–W.Richard Stevens. PHI.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. UNIX Systems Programming using C++ T CHAN, PHI.
2. UNIX for Programmers and Users, 3rd Edition Graham GLASS, King Abls,
Pearson Education
3. Advanced UNIX Programming 2nd Edition M. J. ROCHKIND, Pearson
Education
166
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY,
HYDERABAD
IV Year B.Tech CSE, IT–I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective - I 3 0 3
(13CSE023)SEMANTIC WEB AND SOCIAL NETWORKS
Course Objectives
1. To analyse Web Intelligence and synthesize Knowledge Representation for
the Semantic Web
2. To evaluate Ontology engineering and applications pertaining to it.
3. To understand the essence of Semantic Web Applications, Services that
promotes Semantic Web Technology
4. To infer the principles of Social Network Analysis and correlate the rules with
the semantic web
5. To categorize ontologies, domain modeling, logic, reasoning and inference
techniques, semantic web services.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students are expected to:
1. Evaluate principles of ontology and design inference engines in semantic
web development
2. Build semantic web applications with social network features
3. Infer the metaphor of social media as “communication as culture.”
4. Discuss critically on the use of social tools and identify strategies for their
effective implementation
5. Evaluate the social media and synthesize semantic web applications that
mitigate societal bad impacts and promote connectivity that enhances
sharing.
UNIT I
Thinking and Intelligent Web Applications, The Information Age, The World Wide Web,
Limitations of Todays Web, The Next Generation Web
Machine Intelligence, Artificial Intelligence, Ontology, Inference engines, Software
Agents, Berners-Lee www, Semantic Road Map, Logic on the semantic Web.
UNIT II
Ontologies and their role in the semantic web, Ontologies Languages for the Semantic
Web -Resource Description Framework(RDF) / RDF Schema. Ontology Web
Language(OWL),UML,XML/XML Schema.
Ontology Engineering, Constructing Ontology, Ontology Development Tools, Ontology
Methods, Ontology Sharing and Merging, Ontology Libraries and Ontology Mapping,
167
UNIT III
Logic, Rule and Inference Engines.Semantic Web applications and services.Semantic
Search.
e-learning, Semantic Bioinformatics, Knowledge Base
UNIT IV
XML Based Web Services, Creating an OWL-S Ontology for Web Services. Semantic
Search Techno logy, Web Search Agents and Semantic Methods,
UNIT V
What is social Networks analysis, development of the social networks analysis,
Electronic Sources for Network Analysis - Electronic Discussion networks.
Blogs and Online Communities. Web Based Networks. Building Semantic Web
Applications with social network features.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Thinking on the Web - Berners Lee.Godel and Turing,Wiley
interscience,20()8.
2. Social Networks and the Semantic Web, Peter Mika,Springer,2007.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Semantic Web Technologies,Trends and Research in Ontology Based
Systems, J.Davies, Rudi Studer. Paul Warren, John Wiley & Sons.
2. Semantic Web and Semantic Web Services -Liyang Lu Chapman and
Hall/CRC Publishers,(Taylor & Francis Group)
3. Information Sharing on the semantic Web - Heiner Stuckenschmidt; Frank
Van Harmelen, Springer Publications.
4. Programming the Semantic Web.T.Segaran, C.Evans, J.Taylor,
O'Reilly,SPD.
168
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech CSE, IT–I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective - I 3 0 3
(13CSE025)BIO-INFORMATICS
Course Objectives:
The course introduces undergraduate students to the emerging interdisciplinary field of
Bioinformatics, combining elements of the Computational Sciences with the Biological
Sciences. In this course,
1. The student will be able to understand basic concepts of internet & network
protocols and how the concepts of computer sciences relate to problems in
biological sciences.
2. The students will be able to understand the scope, basic concepts of
Bioinformatics, Biological information resources and Retrieval System
3. Emphasis would be laid on understanding Scientific Databases & Algorithms,
Sequence Analysis and Dynamic Programming applicable to Modern Biology
4. The students will have sufficient understanding of Biological databases and
their types
Course Outcomes:
After completing the course, the students should be able to:
1. Describe the contents and properties of the most important bio-informatical
databases, perform text- and sequence-based searches, and analyze and
discuss the results in light of molecular biological knowledge
2. Apply the major steps in pair wise and multiple sequence alignment, build the
principle for, and execute pair wise sequence alignment by dynamic
programming
3. Compose the major features of evolution of genes and proteins and formulate
how different methods can be used to construct phylogenetic trees.
4. Assess the major features of methods for modeling protein structures and
generate programs for visualizing and analyzing such structures.
5. State examples of methods for describing and analyzing genes, genomes
and gene expression and identify and select central concepts used in
systems biology
UNIT I
Introduction to Bioinformatics: Scope of Bioinformatics, History of Bioinformatics;
Biological information resources and retrieval system Elementary commands and
protocols, ftp, telnet, http
169
UNIT II
Basic Sequencing: DNA mapping and sequencing , Map Alignment , sequencing
methods like Shotgun and Sanger method
UNIT III
Sequencing Alignment and Dynamic Programming: BLAST, Heuristic Alignment
algorithms , global sequence alignments-Needleman Wunsch algorithm, Smith-
Waterman algorithm-Local sequence alignments
UNIT IV
Evolutionary Trees and Phylogeny: Multiple sequence alignment and phylogenetic
analysis.
UNIT V
Databases: Introduction to Biological databases, Organization and management of
databases, Structure databases- PDB(Protein Data Bank), Molecular modeling
databases(MMDB),Primary databases NCBL,EMBL,DDBJ, Secondary Databases-
Swissprot, KEGG, Bio Chemical databases- KEGG, BRENDA, WIT, EXPASY
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Bioinformatics Basics, Applications in Biological Science and Medicine by
Hooman H. Rashidi and Lukas K.buehler CAC Press 2000
2. Algorithms on strings trees and sequences Dan Gusfield, Cambridge
University Press 1997
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Bioinformatics: David Mount 2000,CSH Publications
2. Bioinformatics: A machine Learning Approach P.Baldi. S.Brunak, MIT Press
1988
3. Developing Bioinformatics Computer Skills", Gibas C, Jambeck P
4. Bioinformatics: A Practical Guide to the Analysis of Genes and Proteins" ,
Baxevanis AD, Ouellette BFF (eds):
170
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech CSE, IT–I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective - I 3 0 3
(13ITD016)COMPUTER FORENSICS
Course Objectives:
1. Gain a working knowledge of Computer Forensics.
2. Explain the responsibilities and liabilities of a computer forensic investigator
3. Explain where digital evidence resides on computer storage devices
4. Learn how to work with Forensic tools.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. apply appropriate skills and knowledge in solving computer forensics problems.
2. display their competence in the various forensic computing field.
3. apply their theoretical and practical knowledge in forensic computing, into the
future and emerging technology
4. perform competitively as a technical support in any organization
UNIT I
Computer Forensics Fundamentals: What is Computer Forensics?. Use of
Computer Forensics in Law Enforcement, Computer Forensics in Law Enforcement,
Computer Forensics Assistance to Human Resources/Employment Proceedings,
Computer Forensics Services, Benefits of professional Forensics Methodology, Steps
taken by computer Forensics Specialists.
Types of Computer Forensics Technology: Types of Military Computer Forensics
Technology, Types of Law Enforcement - Computer Forensic Technology - Types of
Business Computer Forensics Technology.
Computer Forensics Evidence and Capture: Data Recovery Defined- Data Back-up
and Recovery- The Role of Back-up in Data Recovery- The Data Recovery Solution.
UNIT II
Evidence Collection and Data Seizure: Why Collection Evidence? Collection Options
– Obstacles – Types of Evidence – The Rules of Evidence- Volatile Evidence- General
Procedure – Collection and Archiving – Methods of Collection – Artifacts – Collection
Steps – Controlling Contamination: The chain of Custody.
Duplication and preservation of Digital Evidence: Preserving the Digital Crime
Scene – Computer Evidence Processing Steps – Legal Aspects of Collecting
Preserving Computer Forensics Evidence. Computer Image Verification and
Authentication: Special Needs of Evidential Authentication – Practical Consideration –
Practical Implementation.
171
UNIT III
Computer Forensics analysis and validation: Determining what data to collect and
analyze, validating forensic data, addressing data – hiding techniques, performing
remote acquisitions.
Network Forensics: Network Forensics overview, performing live acquisitions,
developing standard procedures for network forensics, unsing network tools, examining
the honeynet project.
UNIT IV
Processing crime and incident scenes: Identifying digital evidence, collecting
evidence in private-sector incident scenes, processing law enforcement crime scenes,
preparing for a search, securing a computer incident or crime scene, seizing digital
evidence at the scene, storing digital evidence, obtaining a digital hash, reviewing a
case.
Current computer forensic tools: evaluating computer forensic tool needs, computer
forensics software tools, computer forensics hardware tools, validating and testing
forensics software.
UNIT V
E-Mail investigations: Exploring the role of E-mail in investigation, exploring the role
of the client and server in E-mail, investigating e-mail crimes and violations,
understanding e-mail servers, using specialized e-mail forensic tools.
Cell phone and mobile device forensics: Understanding mobile device forensics,
understanding acquisition procedures for cell phones and mobile devices.
Working with windows and DOS Systems: Understanding file systems, exploring
Microsoft File Structures, Examining NTFS Disks, Understanding whole disk
encryption, windows registry, Microsoft startup tasks, MS-DOS Startup tasks, virtual
machines.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Computer forensics, computer crime investigation by John R.Vacca, Firewall
Media, New Delhi.
2. Computer forensics and investigations by Nelson, Phillips Enfinger Steuart,
CENGAGE Learning.
172
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Real Digital Forensics by Keith J.Jones, Rechard Bejtlich, Curtis W.Rose,
Addison-Wesley Pearson Education.
2. Forensic compiling, A Tractitioneris Guide By Tony Sammes and Brain
Jenkinson, Springer International Edition.
3. Computer Evidence Collection & Presentation by Christopher L.T.Brown,
Firewall Media.
4. Homeland Security, Techniques & Technologies by Jesus Mena, Firewall
Media
5. Software forensics Collecting Evidence from the scene of a digital crime by
Robert M.Slade, TMH 2005.
6. Windows forensics by Chad Steel, Wiley India Edition.
173
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech CSE, IT–I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective - I 3 0 3
(13CSE026)DESIGN PATTERNS
CourseObjectives:
1. Learn systematic approachesof design patterns that focus and describe abstract
systems of interaction between classes, objects, and communication flow.
2. Comprehend the nature of design patterns by understanding a small number of
examplesfrom different pattern categories, and to be able to apply these patterns
in creating an Object Orientdesign.
3. Given Object Orient design heuristics, patterns or published guidance, evaluate a
design forapplicability, reasonableness, and relation to other design criteria.
4 understanding the knowledge on the documentation and efforts required for
designing the patterns.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. Know the deeper knowledge of the principles of object-oriented design
2. Understand the design patterns that are common in software applications.
3. Understand how design patterns related to object-oriented design.
4. Document good design pattern structures.
5. Use patterns and have deeper knowledge of patterns.
.
UNIT –I
Introduction:
What Is a Design Pattern? Design Patterns in Smalltalk MVC, Describing Design
Patterns, The Catalog of Design Patterns, Organizing the Catalog, How Design
Patterns Solve Design Problems, How to Select a Design Pattern, How to Use a
Design Pattern.
UNIT-II
A Case Study: Designing a Document Editor :Design Problems, Document Structure,
Formatting, Embellishing the User Interface, Supporting Multiple Look-and-Feel
Standards, Supporting Multiple Window Systems, User Operations Spelling Checking
and Hyphenation, Summary .
UNIT-III
Creational Patterns: Abstract Factory, Builder, Factory Method, Prototype, Singleton,
Discussion of Creational Patterns.
Structural PatternPart-I: Adapter, Bridge, Composite
174
UNIT-IV
Structural PatternPart-II: Decorator, Façade, Flyweight, Proxy.
Behavioral PatternsPart-I : Chain of Responsibility, Command, Interpreter, Iterator.
UNIT-V
Behavioral Patterns Part-II: Mediator, Memento, Observer, State, Strategy, Template
Method ,Visitor, Discussion of Behavioral Patterns. What to Expect from Design
Patterns, A Brief History, The Pattern Community An Invitation, A Parting Thought.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Design Patterns By Erich Gamma, Pearson Education
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Pattern’s in JAVA Vol-I By Mark Grand ,Wiley DreamTech.
2. Pattern’s in JAVA Vol-II By Mark Grand ,Wiley DreamTech.
3 JAVA Enterprise Design Patterns Vol-III By Mark Grand ,Wiley DreamTech.
4. Head First Design Patterns By Eric Freeman-Oreilly-spd5.
175
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech CSE, IT–I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective - II 3 0 3
(13ITD021)CLOUD COMPUTING
Course Objectives:
At the end of the course, student will be able to appreciate the cloud computing
paradigm, recognize its various forms and able to implement some cloud computing
features.
1. At the end of the course, student will be able to appreciate the cloud
computing paradigm, recognize its various forms and able to implement
some cloud computing features.
2. Get a clear understanding of Cloud Computing Fundamentals and its
importance to various organizations.
3. Master the concepts of IaaS, PaaS, SaaS, Public and Private clouds.
4. Understand AWS and learn to develop applications in AWS.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. Articulate the main concepts, key technologies, strengths, and limitations of
cloud computing and the possible applications for state-of-the-art cloud
computing
2. Identify the architecture and infrastructure of cloud computing, including
SaaS, PaaS, IaaS, public cloud, private cloud, hybrid cloud, etc.
3. Explain the core issues of cloud computing such as security, privacy, and
interoperability.
4. Collaboratively research and write a research paper, and present the
research online. Knowledge of Governance of Cloud Computing.
UNIT-I
UNDERSTANDING CLOUD COMPUTING
Cloud Computing – History of Cloud Computing – Cloud Architecture – Cloud Storage
–Why Cloud Computing Matters – Advantages of Cloud Computing – Disadvantages of
Cloud Computing – Companies in the Cloud Today – Cloud Services
UNIT-II
DEVELOPING CLOUD SERVICES
Web-Based Application – Pros and Cons of Cloud Service Development – Types of
Cloud Service Development – Software as a Service – Platform as a Service – Web
176
Services – On-Demand Computing – Discovering Cloud Services Development
Services and Tools – Amazon Ec2 – Google App Engine – IBM Clouds
UNIT-III
CLOUD COMPUTING SECURITY ARCHITECTURE
Cloud security fundamentals-Vulnerability assessment tool for cloud- Privacy and
Security in cloud
Cloud computing security architecture: Architectural Considerations- General Issues-
Trusted Cloud computing- Secure Execution Environments and Communications-
Micro-architectures; Identity Management and Access control Identity management-
Access control, Autonomic Security
UNIT-IV
CLOUD COMPUTING FOR EVERYONE
Centralizing Email Communications – Collaborating on Schedules – Collaborating on
To-Do Lists – Collaborating Contact Lists – Cloud Computing for the Community –
Collaborating on Group Projects and Events – Cloud Computing for the Corporation
UNIT-V
CLOUD COMPUTING CASE STUDIES
Cloud computing case studies: Google App Engine – IBM Clouds –Windows live –
Micro soft dynamic CRM- Salesforce.com CRM- App Exchange – Amazon S3 – Oracle
OBIEE
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Cloud Computing: Implementation, Management and Security, John W.
Rittinghouse, James F.Ransome, CRC Press, rp2012.
2. Cloud computing a practical approach by Anthony T.Velte, Toby J Velte Robert
Elsenpeter, and TMH 2010
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Michael Miller, Cloud Computing: Web-Based Applications That Change the Way
You Work and Collaborate Online, Que Publishing, August 2008.
2. Haley Beard, Cloud Computing Best Practices for Managing and Measuring
Processes for On-demand Computing, Applications and Data Centers in the
Cloud with SLAs, Emereo Pty Limited, July 2008.
3. Gautam Shroff, Enterprise Cloud Computing: Technology, Architecture,
applications, Cambridge University Press, 2010.
4. Ronald Krutz Russell Dean Vines, Cloud Security
177
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech CSE, IT–I SEM L T/P/D C
ELECTIVE-II 3 0 3
(13CSE020)BUILDING ENTERPRISE APPLICATIONS
Course Objectives:
1. Define the Enterprise Architect’s roles, responsibilities and deliverables.
2. Identify non-functional requirements (NFRs) and describe common
problems and solutions.
3. Translate business requirements into an architecture.
4. How to weigh choices in architecting the client, web, business, integration
and data tiers.
5. Apply various evaluation criteria to choosing architectural elements and
patterns, tools, servers and frameworks.
.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, student should be able to get Knowledge and
Understanding about
1. Student knows different strategies and technologies for developing cross
platform, distributed, object-oriented applications in Java
2. Student should discuss issues involved in building robust e-business
systems in Java
3. Student knows about the Enterprise Java applications developed using
the architecture as a guideline can accommodate rapid change and
growth. By taking this course, you'll understand the technical context of
the Java EE and relevant technologies.
4. Student knows about various security threats and mechanisms.
5. Student knows about the overall software architecture and design of Java
EE technology-based enterprise software systems. Existing architects will
explore using Java EE technologies to improve quality of service in
enterprise systems..
UNIT-I
Introduction: Challenges of Enterprise Application Development, The Platform for
Enterprise Solutions, J2EE Application Scenarios: Multitier Application Scenario,
Stand-Alone Client Scenario, Web-Centric Application Scenario, Business-to-Business
Scenario, MVC Architecture
J2EE Platform Technologies: Component Technologies, Platform Roles and
Services, Service Technologies, Communication technologies.
UNIT –II
178
Client Tier: Requirements and constraints- Operating Environment, Deployment, Web
clients-protocols, Content format, types of web clients, EJB Clients, Enterprise
information system clients
Web Tier: Web Applications and Web Containers, Dynamic content creation,
Internationalization and Localization, Application Designs, Application Migration
Unit –III
Enterprise Java beans Tier: Business Logic, Enterprise Beans as J2EE Business
Objects, Session Beans, and Design Guidelines
Enterprise Information System Tier: Enterprise Information System Capabilities and
Limitations. Enterprise Information System Integration Scenarios, Relational Database
Management System Access, Application Component Provider Tasks, Application
Programming Model.
Unit –IV
Transaction Management : Properties of Transactions, J2EE Platform Transactions,
Scenarios, JTA Transactions ,Transactions in Applets and Application Clients
,Transactions in Web Components ,Transactions in Enterprise Information systems
Unit –V
Security : Security Threats and Mechanisms, Authentication-Protection
,Authentication Mechanisms , Authentication Call Patterns , Auto-Registration,
Exposing Authentication Boundaries with References , Authorization ,Protecting
Messages-Integrity Mechanisms, Confidentiality Mechanisms , Identifying Sensitive
Components ,Ensuring Confidentiality of Web Resources
TEXT BOOK:
1. Designing Enterprise Applications with the JavaTM 2 Platform, Enterprise
Edition , Nicholas Kassem and the Enterprise Team Version
179
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech IT–I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective - II 3 0 3
(13ITD020)INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SYSTEMS
Course Objectives:
1. Study fundamentals of DBMS, Data warehouse and Digital libraries
2. Learn various preprocessing techniques and searching and indexing
approaches in text mining
3. Know various clustering approaches and study different similarity measures
and different cognitive approaches used in text retrieval systems
4. Know about query languages and online IR system
Course Outcomes
By the end of this course the student should be able to:
1. Recognize the Boolean Model, Vector Space Model, and Probabilistic Model.
2. Understand retrieval utilities and different formatting tags
3. Understand cross-language information retrieval
4. Understand the clustering techniques and determine the efficiency.
UNIT-I
Introduction: Definition, Objectives, Functional Overview, Relationship to DBMS,
Digital libraries and Data Warehouses. Information Retrieval System Capabilities,
Search, Browse, Miscellaneous.
UNIT-II
Cataloging and Indexing: Objectives, Indexing Process, Automatic Indexing,
Information Extraction. Data Structures: Introduction, Stemming Algorithms, Inverted
file structures, N-gram data structure, PAT data structure, Signature file structure,
Hypertext data structure. Automatic Indexing: Classes of automatic indexing, Statistical
indexing, Natural language, Concept indexing, Hypertext linkages.
UNIT-III
Document and Term Clustering: Introduction, Thesaurus generation, Item clustering,
Hierarchy of clusters. User Search Techniques: Search statements and binding,
Similarity measures and ranking, Relevance feedback, Selective dissemination of
information search, weighted searches of Boolean systems, Searching the Internet and
hypertext.
UNIT-IV
Information Visualization: Introduction, Cognition and perception, Information
visualization technologies. Text Search Algorithms: Introduction, Software text search
algorithms, Hardware text search systems. Information System Evaluation:
180
Introduction, Measures used in system evaluation, Measurement example – TREC
results.
UNIT-V
Multimedia Information Retrieval, Models and Languages, Data Modeling, Query
Languages, Indexing and Searching. Libraries and Bibliographical systems, online IR
system, OPACs, Digital Libraries.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Information Storage and Retrieval systems Theory and Implementation
Second Edition
2. Modern Information Retrival By Ricardo Baeza-Yates, Pearson Education,
2007.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Information Retrieval: Algorithms and Heuristics By David A Grossman and
Ophir Frider, 2nd Edition, Springer.
2. Frakes, W.B., Ricardo Baeza-Yates: Information Retrieval Data Structures
and Algorithms, Prentice Hall, 1992.
3. Modern Information Retrival By Yates Pearson Education.
4. Information Storage & Retieval By Robert Korfhage – John Wiley & Sons
5. Natural Language Processing and Information Retrieval, T.Siddiqui and
U.S.Tiwary, Oxford University Press.
181
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech CSE, IT– I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective - II 3 0 3
(13CSE013)CRYPTOGRAPHY AND NETWORK SECURITY
Course Objectives:
1. Understand security concepts, Ethics in Network Security- tradeoffs inherent
in security, basic categories of threats to computers and networks and
Comprehend security services and mechanisms in the network protocol
stack.
2. Describe various cryptosystems- symmetric key cryptography, public key
cryptography.
3. Comprehend and apply authentication services and mechanisms, Generate
and distribute a PGP key pair and use the PGP package to send an
encrypted e-mail message.
4. Describe the enhancements made to IPv4 by IPSec, Understand the
concepts of web security.
5. Discuss system security Issues- viruses, measures to counter them, Intrusion
detection and Firewall Design Principles.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. Acquire knowledge in security issues, services, goals and mechanism of
security, Understand mathematical foundation required for various
cryptographic Algorithms.
2. Develop a security model to prevent, detect and recover from attacks,
Encrypt and decrypt messages. Analyse a given system with respect to
security of the system.
3. Sign and verify messages using well-known signature generation and
verification algorithms.
4. Should be able to write code for relevant cryptographic algorithms, Should be
able to write a secure access client for access to a server
5. Should be able to send and receive secure mails, Should be able to
determine firewall requirements, and configure a firewall.
UNIT-I
INTRODUCTION: Security Attacks, Services Mechanisms, A model for Internetwork
security, Classical Encryption techniques, Fiestel Cipher Structure,
Data Encryption Standard, Block Cipher Design Principles and Modes of Operation,
Triple DES, IDEA, BLOWFISH, RC-4, Evaluation criteria for AES, AES Cipher,
Placement of Encryption Function, Traffic Confidentiality.
UNIT-II
182
PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOGRAPHY
Confidentiality using Symmetric Encryption – Principles of Public key Cryptosystems,
RSA algorithm, Key Management, Diffie-Hellman key Exchange, Elliptic Curve
Cryptography. Buffer overflow, TCP session hijacking, ARP attacks, route table
modification, UDP hijacking and man-in-the-middle attacks.
UNIT-III
AUTHENTICATION AND HASH FUNCTIONS
Authentication requirements, Authentication functions, Message Authentication Codes,
Hash Functions, Security of Hash Functions and MACs, MD5 message Digest
algorithm , Secure Hash Algorithm, RIPEMD, HMAC Digital Signatures, Authentication
Protocols, Digital Signature Standard, Authentication Applications: Kerberos – X.509
Authentication Service
UNIT-IV
NETWORK SECURITY: Email Security and Web Security
Electronic Mail Security – PGP/ SMIME, IP security- Architecture, Authentication
Header, Encapsulating Security Payload, Key Management, Web Security- Secure
Socket Layer, Transport Layer Security and Secure Electronic Transaction
UNIT-V
SYSTEM LEVEL SECURITY
Intrusion detection – password management – Viruses and related Threats – Virus
Counter measures – Firewall Design Principles – Trusted Systems.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. William Stallings, “Cryptography And Network Security – Principles and
Practices”, Prentice Hall of India, Fourth Edition, 2005.
2. Bruce Schneier, “Applied Cryptography”, John Wiley & Sons Inc, 2001
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Charles B. Pfleeger, Shari Lawrence Pfleeger, “Security in Computing”, Third
Edition, Pearson Education, 2003
2. Atul Kahate, “Cryptography and Network Security”, Tata McGraw-Hill, 2003.
3. “Hack Proofing your network” by Ryan Russell, Dan Kaminsky, Rain Forest,
Puppy, Joe Grand, DavidAhmad, Hal Flynn Ido Dubrawsky, Steve W.Manzuik
and Ryan Permeh, wiley Dreamtech
4. Cryptography: Theory and Practice by Douglas R. Stinson, CRC press,
hardcover, Published March, 1995. ISBN 0-8493-8521-0
5. Network Security Essentials: Applications and Standards by William
Stallings.Prentice Hall, Hardcover, Published November 1999, 366 pages,
ISBN 0130160938.
183
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech CSE, IT– I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective - II 3 0 3
(13ITD019)MOBILE COMPUTING
Course Objectives:
1. Know about Global System for Mobile Communication.
2. Understand different Wireless Medium Access Control Protocols.
3. Differentiate the network and transport protocols used in wired and wireless
networks.
4. Define Database Issues and Data Dissemination and Synchronization.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. Learn the different wireless communication technologies and understand the
protocols used in the layered architecture
2. Explain different Wireless Medium Access Control Protocols.
3. Explain Mobile Network and Transport Layer Protocols
4. Explain database issues and data dissemination and synchronization methods
UNIT-I
Introduction to Mobile Communications and Computing:
Mobile Computing (MC) : Introduction to MC, Novel applications, Limitations, and
Architecture.
GSM: Mobile services, System architecture, Radio interface, Protocols, Localization
and calling, Handover, Security, and New data services.
UNIT-II
(Wireless) Medium Access Control (MAC): Motivation for a Specialized MAC
(Hidden and Exposed Terminals, Near and Far Terminals), SDMA, FDMA, TDMA,
CDMA, MAC Protocols for GSM.
UNIT-III
Mobile IP Network Layer: Mobile IP (Goals, assumptions, entities and terminology, IP
packet delivery, agent advertisement and discovery, registration, tunneling and
encapsulation, optimizations), Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP).
UNIT-IV
Mobile Transport Layer: Traditional TCP, Indirect TCP, Snooping TCP, Mobile TCP,
Fast retransmit/fast recovery, Transmission/ time-out freezing, Selective
retransmission, Transaction oriented TCP.
184
UNIT-V
Database Issues: Hoarding techniques, caching invalidation mechanisms.
Data Dissemination: Communications asymmetry, classification of new data delivery
mechanisms, pushes based mechanisms, pull-based mechanisms, hybrid
mechanisms, selective tuning (indexing) techniques.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. “Handbook of Wireless Networks and Mobile Computing”, Stojmenovic and
Cacute, Wiley, 2002, I
2. “Mobile Communications”, Jochen Schiller, Addison-Wesley, Second
Edition, 2004
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. “Mobile Computing Principles: Designing and Developing Mobile Applications
with UML and XML“, Reza Behravanfar, Cambridge University Press,
Oct2004.
2. ”Mobile Computing”, Raj Kamal, Oxford University Press ,2007
3. “Mobile and Wireless Design Essentials”, Martyn Mallick, Wiley DreamTech,
2003.
4. “Principles of Mobile Computing”, Hansmann, Merk, Nicklous, Stober, 2nd
edition Springer 2003.
185
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech CSE, IT–I SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13ITD108)WEB TECHNOLOGIES LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
1. Choose best technologies for solving web client/server problems
2. Create conforming web pages ,Use JavaScript for dynamic effects
3. Use Javascript to validate form input entry, Use appropriate client-side or
Server-side applications, Create adaptive web pages, Implement cookies
4. Deploy Java Applets and Servlets ,Create an XML application
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. Identify the entities responsible for implementing mark-up language
standards.
2. Code and troubleshoot HTML and XHTML web pages, incorporating
CSS and Scripts.
3. Incorporate multimedia (images, animation, sound, and movies) into web
pages.
4. Demonstrate effective use of Dreamweaver to build and publish
professional websites that employ best practices, adhere to current web
standards, and pass Validation.
HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE REQUIRED
1. A working computer system with either Windows or Linux
2. A web browser either IE or firefox
3. Tomcat web server
4. XML editor like Altova Xml-spy [www.Altova.com/XMLSpy – free ] ,
Stylusstudio , etc.,
5. A database either Mysql or Oracle
6. JVM(Java virtual machine) must be installed on your system
7. BDK(Bean development kit) must be also be installed
TASK 1
Design the following static web pages required for an online book store web site.
1) HOME PAGE: The static home page must contain three frames.
186
Top frame : Logo and the college name and links to Home page, Login page,
Registration page, Catalogue page and Cart page (the description of these pages
will be given below). Left frame : At least four links for navigation, which will
display the catalogue of respective links. For e.g.: When you click the link “CSE”
the catalogue for CSE Books should be displayed in the Right frame.
Right frame: The pages to the links in the left frame must be loaded here. Initially
this page contains description of the web site.
Web Site Name
Logo
Home Login Registration Catalogue Cart
CSE
ECE
EEE Description of the Web Site
CIVIL
Fig 1.1
2) LOGIN PAGE:
This page looks like below:
Web Site Name
Logo
Home Login Registration Catalogue Cart
CSE
ECE Login :
EEE Password:
CIVIL
Submit Reset
3) CATOLOGUE PAGE:
The catalogue page should contain the details of all the books available in the web site
in a tabular format.
187
The details should contain the following:
1. Snap shot of Cover Page.
2. Book Title, Author Name, Publisher.
3. Price.
4. Add to cart button.
Web Site Name
Logo
Home Login Registration Catalogue Cart
CSE Book : XML Bible
Author : Winston $ 40.5
ECE Publication : Wiely
EEE
Book : AI $ 63
Author : S.Russel
CIVIL
Publication : Princeton hall
Book : Java 2
Author : Watson $ 35.5
Publication : BPB publications
Book : HTML in 24 hours $ 50
Author : Sam Peter
Publication : Sam publication
TASK 2
4) CART PAGE:
The cart page contains the details about the books which are added to the cart.
The cart page should look like this:
Logo Web Site Name
Home Login Registration Catalogue Cart
188
IT
CSE Book name Price Quantity Amount
ECE
EEE Java 2 $35.5 2 $70
CIVIL XML bible $40.5 1 $40.5
Total amount - $130.5
5) REGISTRATION PAGE:
Create a “registration form “with the following fields
1) Name (Text field)
2) Password (password field)
3) E-mail id (text field)
4) Phone number (text field)
5) Sex (radio button)
6) Date of birth (3 select boxes)
7) Languages known (check boxes – English, Telugu, Hindi, Tamil)
8) Address (text area)
TASK 3
VALIDATION:
a) Write JavaScript to validate the following fields of the above registration page.
1. Name (Name should contains only alphabets and the length should not
be less than 6 characters).
2. Password (Password should not be less than 6 characters length).
3. E-mail id (should not contain any invalid and must follow the standard
pattern
name@domain.com)
4. Phone number (Phone number should contain 10 digits only).
b) Write JavaScript to validate the above login page with the above parameters.
EXPERIMENT 4
Design a web page using CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) which includes the following:
1) Use different font, styles:
In the style definition you define how each selector should work (font, color
etc.). Then, in the body of your pages, you refer to these selectors to activate
the styles. For example:
189
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<style type="text/css">
B.headline {color:red; font-size:22px; font-family:arial; text-decoration:underline}
</style>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<b>This is normal bold</b><br>
<b class="headline">This is headline style bold</b>
</BODY>
</HTML>
2) Set a background image for both the page and single elements on the
page.
You can define the background image for the page like this:
BODY {background-image:url(myimage.gif);}
3) Control the repetition of the image with the background-repeat property.
As background-repeat: repeat
Tiles the image until the entire page is filled, just like an ordinary
background
image in plain HTML.
4) Define styles for links as
A:link
A:visited
A:active
A:hover
Example:
<style type="text/css">
A:link {text-decoration: none}
A:visited {text-decoration: none}
A:active {text-decoration: none}
A:hover {text-decoration: underline; color: red;}
</style>
5) Work with layers: For example:
190
LAYER 1 ON TOP:
<div style="position:relative; font-size:50px; z-index:2;">LAYER 1</div>
<div style="position:relative; top:-50; left:5; color:red; font-size:80px; z-
LAYER 2 ON TOP:
<div style="position:relative; font-size:50px; z-index:3;">LAYER 1</div>
<div style="position:relative; top:-50; left:5; color:red; font-size:80px; z-
6) Add a customized cursor:
Selector {cursor:value}
For example:
<html>
<head>
<style type="text/css">
.xlink {cursor:crosshair}
.hlink{cursor:help}
</style>
</head>
<body>
<b>
<a href="mypage.htm" class="xlink">CROSS LINK</a>
<br>
<a href="mypage.htm" class="hlink">HELP LINK</a>
</b>
</body>
</html>
TASK 5
Write an XML file which will display the Book information which includes the following:
1) Title of the book
2) Author Name
3) ISBN number
4) Publisher name
5) Edition
6) Price
Write a Document Type Definition (DTD) to validate the above XML file.
Display the XML file as follows.
The contents should be displayed in a table. The header of the table should be in color
GREY. And the Author names column should be displayed in one color and should be
capitalized and in bold. Use your own colors for remaining columns.
Use XML schemas XSL and CSS for the above purpose.
191
Note: Give at least for 4 books. It should be valid syntactically.
Hint: You can use some xml editors like XML-spy
TASK 6
VISUAL BEANS:
Create a simple visual bean with a area filled with a color.
The shape of the area depends on the property shape. If it is set to true then the shape
of the area is Square and it is Circle, if it is false.
The color of the area should be changed dynamically for every mouse click. The color
should also be changed if we change the color in the “property window “.
TASK 7
Install TOMCAT web server.
While installation assign port number 8000 to TOMCAT. Make sure that these ports are
available i.e., no other process is using this port.
Access the above developed static web pages for books web site, using these servers
by putting the web pages developed in TASK-1 and TASK-2 in the document root.
Access the pages by using the urls: http://localhost:8000/vnr/books.html
TASK 8
User Authentication:
Assume four users user1, user2, user3 and user4 having the passwords
pwd1,pwd2,pwd3 and pwd4 respectively. Write a servelet for doing the following.
1. Create a Cookie and add these four user id’s and passwords to this Cookie.
2. Read the user id and passwords entered in the Login form (TASK1) and
authenticate with the values (user id and passwords) available in the cookies.
If he is a valid user (i.e., user-name and password match) you should welcome
him by name(user-name) else you should display “ You are not an authenticated
user “.Use init-parameters to do this. Store the user-names and passwords in the
web.xml and access them in the servlet by using the getInitParameters() method.
TASK 9
Install JSDK. User Authentication: Assume four users user1, user2, user3 and user4
having the passwords pwd1, pwd2, pwd3 and pwd4 respectively. Write a servelet for
doing the following.
1. Use init-parameters to do this. access them in the servlet by using the
getInitParameters() method.
2. Read the user id and passwords entered in the Login form (TASK1) and
authenticate with the values (user id and passwords) with above accessed values.
If user is a valid user (i.e., user-name and password match) you should welcome
user by name (user-name) else you should display “You are not an authenticated
user “.
192
TASK 10
Install a database (Mysql or Oracle).
Create a table which should contain at least the following fields: name, password,
email-id, phone number (these should hold the data from the registration form).
Practice 'JDBC' connectivity.
Write a java program/servlet/JSP to connect to that database and extract data from the
tables and display them. TASK with various SQL queries.
Insert the details of the users who register with the web site, whenever a new user
clicks the submit button in the registration page (TASK2).
TASK 11
Write a JSP which does the following job: Insert the details of the 3 or 4 users who
register with the web site (TASK9) by using registration form. Authenticate the user
when he submits the login form using the user name and password from the database
(similar to TASK8 instead of cookies).
TASK 12
Create tables in the database which contain the details of items (books in our case like
Book name, Price, Quantity, Amount)) of each category. Modify your catalogue page
(TASK 2) in such a way that you should connect to the database and extract data from
the tables and display them in the catalogue page using JDBC.
193
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech CSE, IT–I SEM L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13ITD107)MOBILE APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
Students should implement (and learn to use the tools to accomplish this task) the
following during Practical hours:
1. Understand the app idea and design user interface/wireframes of mobile app
2. Set up the mobile app development environment
3. Develop and debug mobile app components – User interface, services,
notifications, broadcast receivers, data components
4. Using emulator to deploy and run mobile apps
5. Testing mobile app - unit testing, black box testing and test automation
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this lab course, student shall be able to:
1. Understand user interfaces of mobile apps with android
2. Design and develop mobile apps, using Android as development platform
3. Solve real world problems using Android as development platform
HARDWARE / SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS
• Machine: Pentium P4, 2.8 GHz or higher, 2 GB (or higher) RAM, 40 GB (or
higher) HD,Windows XP with SP2 (or higher).
• S/W on Students Machine : Android ADT bundle, MonkeyTalk, Robotium,
Tomcat (or any other J2EE web container)
1) Create “Hello World” application. That will display “Hello World” in the middle of
the screen in the red color with white background.
2) To understand Activity, Intent
a. Create sample application with login module.(Check username and password)
b. On successful login, go to next screen. And on failing login, alert user using
Toast.
c. Also pass username to next screen.
3) Create login application where you will have to validate EmailID(UserName). Till
the username and password is not validated, login button should remain disabled.
4) Create and Login application as above. On successful login, open browser with
any URL.
5) Create an application that will pass some number to the next screen and on the
next screen that number of items should be display in the list.
6) Understand resource folders:
a. Create spinner with strings taken from resource folder (res >> value folder).
194
b. On changing spinner value, change image.
7) Understand Menu option.
a. Create an application that will change color of the screen, based on selected
options from the menu.
8) Create an application that will display toast (Message) on specific interval of time.
9) Create an background application that will open activity on specific time.
10) Create an application that will have spinner with list of animation names. On
selecting animation name , that animation should affect on the images displayed
below.
11) Understanding of UI :
a. Create an UI such that , one screen have list of all the types of cars.
b. On selecting of any car name, next screen should show Car details like : name ,
launched date , company name, images(using gallery) if available, show different
colors in which it is available.
12) Understanding content providers and permissions:
a. Read phonebook contacts using content providers and display in list.
13) Read messages from the mobile and display it on the screen.
14) Create an application to call specific entered number by user in the EditText
15) Create an application that will create database with table of User credential.
16) Create an application to read file from asset folder and copy it in memory card.
17) Create an application that will play a media file from the memory card.
18) Create an application to make Insert , update , Delete and retrieve operation on
the database.
19) Create an application to read file from the sdcard and display that file content to the
screen.
20) Create an application to draw line on the screen as user drag his finger.
21) Create an application to send message between two emulators.
22) Create an application to take picture using native application.
23) Create an application to pick up any image from the native application gallery and
display it on the screen.
24) Create an application to open any URL inside the application and clicking on any
link from that URl should not open Native browser but that URL should open the
same screen.
195
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech IT–II SEM L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13CSE024)SOFT COMPUTING
Course Objectives:
1. T o introduce with soft computing concepts like neural networks, supervised learning
and unsupervised learning techniques.
2. To introduce the concepts of neural network basics and its types.
3. To understand the features of fuzzy sets and its relations.
4. To familiarize the applications of neural networks and fuzzy logic member function
features
5. To know the real time applications of internet search techniques and fuzzy
controllers.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. Identify and describe soft computing techniques and their roles in building
intelligent machines.
2. Recognize the feasibility of applying a soft computing methodology for a particular
problem.
3. Apply fuzzy logic and reasoning to handle uncertainty and solve problems
4. Apply genetic algorithms and neural networks to classify patterns and regression
problems.
5. Evaluate and compare solutions by various soft computing approaches for a given
problem.
UNIT-I
Introduction: Neural Networks, Fuzzy Logic, Genetic Algorithms, Hybrid Systems,
Soft Computing, Soft Computing Constituents, Soft Computing Characteristics.
Artificial Neural Networks: Introduction, Fundamental Concept, Evolution of Neural
Networks, Basic models of ANN, Important Terminologies.
UNIT-II
Supervised Learning Networks: Introduction, Perceptron Networks, Adaptive Linear
Neuron, Back propagation Network. Associative Memory Networks: Introduction,
Training Algorithms for pattern association and Hopfield Networks.
UNIT-III
Unsupervised Learning Networks: Introduction, Fixed Weight Competitive Nets,
Kohonen Self-Organizing Feature Maps, Counter Propagation Networks.
Fuzzy Sets: Introduction, Classical Sets, Fuzzy Sets, Classical Relations, Fuzzy
Relations
196
UNIT-IV
Membership functions- Features, Fuzzification, Membership value assignments,
Defuzzification Methods, Fuzzy Arithmetic, Fuzzy Measures, Fuzzy Inference Systems,
and Fuzzy Logic Control Systems
UNIT-V
Genetic Algorithms- Introduction, Basic operators and terminology, Traditional
Algorithm vs Genetic Algorithm, Simple GA, General GA, Classification of GA, Genetic
Programming, Applications of GA.
Applications of Soft Computing : Internet Search Technique, Hybrid Fuzzy
Controllers.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Principles of Soft Computing- S N Sivanandam, S N Deepa, Wiley India, 2007
2. Neuro-Fuzzy and Soft Computing A Computational Approach to Learning and
Machine Intelligence – J.S.R.Jang, C.T.Sun, E.Mizutani, PHI
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Artificial Intelligence and Soft Computing- Behavioral and Cognitive Modeling of
the Human Brain- Amit Konar, CRC press, Taylor and Francis Group.
2. Soft Computing and Intelligent System Design -Fakhreddine O Karray, Clarence D
Silva,. Pearson Edition, 2004.
3. Artificial Intelligence – Patric Henry Winston – Third Edition, Pearson Education.
4. Fuzzy Sets and Fuzzy Logic Theory and Applications – George J.Klir, Bo Yuan
5. Genetic Algorithms in Search, Optimization and Machine Learning – David
E.Goldberg Addison-Wesley
6. An Introduction to Genetic Algorithms – Melanie Mitchell, MIT Press
7. Artificial Neural Networks – B.Yegnanarayana.
197
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech IT–II SEM L T/P/D C
Elective - III 3 0 3
(13CSE011)ADVANCED COMPUTER ARCHITECTURE
Course Objectives:
1. know the classes of computers, and new trends and developments in
computer architecture
2. Understand pipelining, instruction set architectures, memory addressing.
3. Understand the various techniques to enhance a processors ability to exploit
Instruction-level parallelism (ILP), and its challenges.
4. Understand symmetric shared-memory architectures and their performance,
several advanced optimizations to achieve cache performance.
5. Understand storage systems, RAID, I/O performance, and reliability
measures.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students are expected to:
1. Describe the principles of computer design.
2. Classify instruction set architectures.
3. Analyze the operation of performance enhancements such as
pipelines,caches, shared memory.
4. Describe modern architectures such as RISC, VLIW (very large instruction
word) and multi-cpu systems.
5. Compare the performance of different architectures
UNIT -I
Fundamentals of Computer design- Technology trends- cost price and their trends-
measuring and reporting performance - quantitative principles of computer design.
UNIT –II
Instruction set principles and examples- Classifying instruction set architecture -
memory addressing- type and size of operands- operations in the instruction set-
instructions for control flow- encoding an instruction set.
UNIT –III
Instruction level parallelism (ILP)and its dynamic exploitation – Concepts and
challenges-overcoming data hazards- reducing branch costs with dynamic hardware
prediction – high performance instruction delivery- hardware based speculation
ILP software approach- compiler techniques- static branch protection - VLIW
approach - H.W support for more ILP at compile time.
198
UNIT –IV
Memory hierarchy design- Cache performance- reducing cache misses penalty and
miss rate–virtualmemory.
Multiprocessors and thread level parallelism- symmetric shared memory
architectures- distributed shared memory- Synchronization- multi threading
UNIT –V
Storage systems - Types – Buses - RAID- errors and failures - designing an I/O
system in fiveeasypieces. Inter connection networks and clusters - interconnection
network media – practical issues in interconnecting networks – clusters- designing a
cluster
TEXT BOOKS:
1) Computer Architecture A quantitative approach 3rd edition John L. Hennessy
& David A. Patterson Morgan Kufmann (An Imprint of Elsevier)
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. “Computer Architecture and parallel Processing” Kai Hwang and A.Briggs
International Edition McGraw-Hill.
2. Advanced Computer Architectures, DezsoSima, Terence Fountain, Peter
Kacsuk, Pearson.
199
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech CSE, IT–II SEM L T/P/D C
ELECTIVE-III 3 0 3
(13ITD007)M-COMMERCE
Course Objectives:
1. To describe e-commerce system concepts
2. To critically analyze examples and cases of e-commerce systems
3. To describe systems and technology in m-commerce
4. To examine some of the applications in m-commerce
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to:
1. comprehend the underlying economic mechanisms and driving forces of E-
Commerce;
2. understand the critical building blocks of E-Commerce and M-Commerce and
different types of prevailing business models employed by leading industrial
leaders;
3. appraise the opportunities and potential to apply and synthesize a variety of
M-Commerce concepts and solutions to create business value for
organizations, customers, and business partners;
4. Formulate M-Commerce strategies that lever firm’s core competencies,
facilitate organizational transformation, and foster innovation;undertake
planning, organizing, and implementing of M-Commerce initiatives to
effectively respond to of dynamic market environments.
UNIT-I Electronic Commerce
Traditional commerce and E commerce – Internet and WWW – role ofWWW – Value
chains – strategic business and Industry value chains –role of E Commerce. Packet
switched networks – TCP/IP protocol script –Internet utility programmes – SGML,
HTML and XML – web client andservers – Web client/server architecture – Intranet and
extranets – WebBased Tools for E Commerce – Security.
UNIT-II Mobile Commerce
Introduction – Infrastructure of M– Commerce – Types of Mobilecommerce services –
Technologies of wireless business – Benefits andLimitations – Support – Mobile
Marketing & Advertisement – Non– InternetApplications in M– Commerce –
Wireless/wired commerce comparisons.
UNIT-III Mobile Commerce: Technology
A Framework for the Study of Mobile Commerce – NTT DoCoMo’s i–Mode – Wireless
Devices for Mobile Commerce – Towards AClassification Framework For Mobile
200
Location Based Services – WirelessPersonal and Local Area Networks – The Impact of
Technology Advanceson Strategy Formulation in Mobile Communications Networks.
UNIT-IV Mobile Commerce: Theory And Applications
The Ecology of Mobile Commerce – The Wireless Application Protocol –Mobile
Business Services – Mobile Portal – Factors influencing theAdoption of Mobile Gaming
Services – Mobile Data Technologies andSmall Business Adoption and Diffusion – M–
Commerce in theAutomotive Industry – Location– Based Services: Criteria for
Adoptionand Solution Deployment – The Role of Mobile Advertising in Building aBrand
– M– Commerce Business Models.
UNIT-V Business– To– Business Mobile E– Commerce
Enterprise enablement – Email and messaging – Field force automation– Field sales
support – Asset tracking and Maintenance/Management –Remote IT support –
Customer retention – Warehouse automation –Security.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Brian E. Mennecke , Troy J. Strader , “Mobile Commerce: (Soft
Cover):Technology, Theory and Applications”, Idea Group Inc., IRM press , 2003.
2. Ravi Kalakota and Andrew B.Whinston “Frontiers of ElectronicCommerce”,
Pearson Education, 2003.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. P. J. Louis, “ M– Commerce Crash Course”, McGraw– Hill CompaniesFebruary
2001.
2. Paul May, “Mobile Commerce: Opportunities, Applications, andTechnologies of
Wireless Business” Cambridge University Press
201
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech IT–II SEM L T/P/D C
Elective-III 3 0 3
(13CSE021)ADVANCED BUSINESS ANALYTICS
Course Objectives:
1. Expose the students to Business Intelligence domain by Introducing insights
of Data Mining, Data Warehousing and Integration issues.
2. Predict frequent patterns using association analysis techniques.
3. Discuss supervised and unsupervised learning techniques to obtain useful
and hidden data for analysis.
4. Introduce Interactive Visual Data Analysis techniques to visualize.
5. Describe various kinds of data and to know how to utilize time series data.
Course Outcomes:
1. Differentiate between Transaction Processing and Analytical applications and
describe the need for Business Intelligence.
2. Exhibit understanding of technology and processing associated with data
mining.
3. Demonstrate Data Mining implementation methodology and project life cycle.
4. Design an enterprise dashboard that depicts the key performance indicators
which helps in decision making.
5. Show application of concepts using open source tools
UNIT-I Introduction and Algorithms of Data Mining
What is Data Mining? Integration of Data Mining system with a Database or a Data
Warehouse System, Major issues in Data Mining, Applications and Trends in Data
Mining. Mining Frequent Patterns, Associations: Basic Concepts, Efficient and Scalable
Frequent Itemset, Mining methods ( Apriori Algoithm, improving efficiency of Apriori,
Mining frequent Itemsets without Candidate generation, using vertical data formats,
closed frequent itemsets). Mining various kinds of association rules, from association
analysis to Correlation analysis, constraint-based association mining
UNIT-II Cluster Analysis, Classification and Prediction
Types of data in cluster analysis, classical Partitioning methods: k-Means and k-
Medoids.
What is classification? What is Prediction? Classification by Decision tree Induction,
Bayesian classification, Rule based classification, Prediction: Linear Regression, non-
linear regression
202
UNIT-III Introduction to Interactive Visual Data Analysis
• Challenges faced by everyday data analysts
• A brief history of interactive visual data analysis
• Differences between statics graphics and interactive graphics
UNIT-IV Sensing and Analyzing Univariate Data
• Sensing and Analyzing Univariate Data
• Distribution analysis of categorical data
• Distribution analysis of continuous data
• Deviation analysis
• Part-to whole and ranking analysis
• Univariate data analysis best practices
UNIT-V Sensing and Analyzing Time Series Data
• Characteristics of time-series data
• Visual analysis techniques for time-series data
• Interactive graphics aided time-series analysis
• Visual time-series analysis best practices
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Jiawei Han and Micheline Kamber, Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques,
Second Edition, Elsevier
2. Michael Berry and Gordon Linoff, Data Mining Techniques, Wiley Publishing,
2004.
3. Kimball and Ross, The Data Warehouse Toolkit, Second Edition, John Wiley
& Sons, 2002.
4. T. Davenport, “Competing on Analytics,” Harvard Business Review (Decision
Making), January 2006.
203
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech IT–II SEM L T/P/D C
Elective-III 3 0 3
(13ECE013)DIGITAL IMAGE PROCESSING
Course Objectives
1. To introduce fundamentals of digital image processing and study image
transforms
2. To demonstrate digital image processing techniques in spatial and frequency
domains
3. To study and compare various image compression algorithms
4. To study advanced image analysis methods: image segmentation,
morphological image processing, & image restoration
.Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
1. Understand the basic principles of digital image processing and perform
image transforms
2. Understand and perform basic image processing methods such as Image
filtering operations, Image enhancement
3. Analyze and compare various image compression techniques and their
applications
4. Design and implement various algorithms for image analysis
UNIT-I
Fundamentals of Image Processing: Digital Image Fundamentals, Basic steps of
Image Processing System, Sampling and Quantization of an image, relationship
between pixels, Imaging Geometry.
Image Transforms: 2 D- Discrete Fourier Transform, Discrete Cosine Transform
(DCT), Haar Transform, Hadmard Transform, Hotelling Transform and slant transform.
UNIT-II
Image Enhancement: Spatial domain methods: Histogram processing, Fundamentals
of Spatial filtering, Smoothing spatial filters, Sharpening spatial filters.
Frequency domain methods: Basics of filtering in frequency domain, image
smoothing, image sharpening, Selective filtering.
UNIT-III
Image Segmentation: Segmentation concepts, Point, Line and Edge Detection, Edge
Linking using Hough Transform, Thresholding, Region Based segmentation.
Wavelet based Image Processing: Introduction to wavelet Transform, Continuous
wavelet Transform, Discrete wavelet Transform, Filter banks, Wavelet based image
compression
204
UNIT-IV
Image Compression: Image compression fundamentals - Coding Redundancy,
Spatial and Temporal redundancy, Compression models: Lossy and Lossless, Huffman
coding, Arithmetic coding, LZW coding, Run length coding, Bit plane coding, Transform
coding, Predictive coding, JPEG Standards.
UNIT-V
Image Restoration: Image Restoration Degradation model, Algebraic approach to
restoration, Inverse Filtering, Least Mean square filters.
Morphological Image Processing: Dilation and Erosion, Opening and closing, the hit
or miss Transformation, Overview of Digital Image Watermarking Methods
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Digital Image Processing- Rafael C. Gonzalez and Richard E.Woods, 3rd
Edition, Pearson, 2008.
2. Digital Image Processing- S.Jayaraman, S Esakkirajan, T Veerakumar, TMH,
2010.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Digital Image Processing-William K.Pratt, 3rd Edition, John Willey, 2004.
2. Fundamentals of Digital Image Processing-A.K.Jain, PHI, 1989.
3. Digital Image Processing using MATLAB - Rafael C. Gonzalez, Richard
E.Woods and Steven L.Edding 2nd , TMH. 2010.
4. Digital Image Processing and Computer Vision – Somka, Hlavac, Boyl,
Cengage Learning, 2008.
5. Introduction to image Processing and Analysis – John C. Russ, J. Christian
Russ, CRC Press, 2010
205
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech IT–II SEM L T/P/D C
Elective-III 3 0 3
(13CSE018)GAMING ENGINEERING
Course Objectives:
1. Mastery of event-based programming and Mastery of resource management
as it relates to rendering time, including level-of-detail and culling.
2. Familiarity with the various components in a game or game engine.
3. Familiarity with leading open source game engine components.
4. Familiarity of game physics. And Familiarity with game animation.
5. Exposure to processing real world problems on GPU.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course student will be able to:
1.Understand all game development problems and issues, such as story creation,
character control, scene management, selection of programming language,
mathematical analysis, physical analysis, graphics, multimedia, artificial
intelligence, and others.
2. Describe the hardware and software components of a gaming system.
3. Design and build a single-user 2D and 3D game.
4. Design and build a multi-user PC or Mobile game
5. Solve complex logic problems using the tools and techniques found in Computer
Science, Software Engineering, and Game Programming.
UNIT-I
Introduction to Game Programming
History of Computer Games, Game design principles and architecture, Game design
process, Basic Structure of a Game ,Using XNA and working with Xbox 360, Structure
of an XNA application , Installing XNA and opening your first XNA project, Working with
XNA's Sprite Manager ,Component programming, C# vs. Java .
UNIT-II
2-D Game Design
Rendering 2D images to the screen, Scaling, rotating and positioning 2D images,
Keyboard input, Playing sound effects in XNA, Per-pixel texture manipulations,
Random terrain slope generation, Alpha blending, Collision detection, And even a
complete 2D particle engine for the explosions.
UNIT-III
3-D Game Design
Effect file, First triangle: defining points, displaying them using XNA, World space:
defining points in 3D space, defining camera position, Rotation & translation, Indices,
206
Terrain basics, Terrain from file, reading user input on the keyboard, Adding colors,
Lighting basics, Terrain lighting.
UNIT-IV
3-D Game Programming Using HLSL
Graphics Processing Unit (GPU), Running a game on GPU, HLSL introduction, Vertex
format, Vertex shader, Pixel shader, Per-pixel colors, Textured triangle, Triangle strip,
World transform, World normals, Per-pixel lighting, Shadow map, Render to texture,
Projective texturing, Real shadow, Shaping the light, Preshaders.
UNIT-V
Case Studies
1. Creating a Shooters (2-D) game and Creating a Flight Sim(3-D) game.
TEXT BOOK:
1. XNA 3.0 Game Programming Recipes: A Problem-Solution Approach,
Riemer Grootjans, A Press, 2009.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Beginning XNA 3.0 Game Programming: From Novice to Professional,
Alexandre Santos Lobao, Bruno Pereira Evangelista, Antonio Leal de Farias ,
Riemer Grootjans, A Press, 2009.
2. Learning XNA 4.0: Game Development for the PC, Xbox 360, and Windows
Phone 7, Aaron Reed, O’Reilly, 2011.
3. Microsoft XNA Game Studio Creator's Guide, Second Edition, Stephen
Cawood and Pat McGee, Mc. Graw Hill, New York, 2009.
4. http://www.riemers.net/eng/Tutorials/xnacsharp.php
207
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech CSE, IT– II SEM L T/P/D C
Elective - IV 3 0 3
(13ITD017)NETWORK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Course Objectives:
1. Understand the working principle of networks, and protocols
2. Understand the architecture of SNMP version to manage the networks
3. An understanding of the RMON protocol to monitor network remotely
4. We based management of the centralized networks
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
1. underlay the network hardware, network topologies.
2. underlay the network protocols
3. Able to implement, manage and configure the network components from the
centralized system.
4. Design considerations of the network
UNIT-I
Data communications and Network Management Overview : Analogy of Telephone
Network Management, Communications protocols and Standards, Case Histories of
Networking and Management, Challenges of Information Technology Managers,
Network Management: Goals, Organization, and Functions, Network and System
Management, Network Management System Platform, Current Status and future of
Network Management.
UNIT-II
SNMPV1 Network Management: Organization and Information and Information
Models.
Managed network: The History of SNMP Management, The SNMP Model, The
Organization Model, System Overview, The Information Model.
SNMPv1 Network Management: Communication and Functional Models. The SNMP
Communication Model, Functional model.
UNIT-III
SNMP Management: SNMPv2: Major Changes in SNMPv2, SNMPv2 System
Architecture, SNMPv2 Structure of Management Information, the SNMPv2
Management Information Base, SNMPv2 Protocol.
SNMP Management: RMON: What is Remote Monitoring? , RMON SMI and MIB,
RMON1, RMON2, ATM Remote Monitoring, A Case Study of Internet Traffic Using
RMON
208
UNIT-IV
Telecommunications Management Network: Why TMN? , Operations Systems,
TMN Conceptual Model, TMN Standards, TMN Architecture, TMN Management
Service Architecture, An Integrated View of TMN, implementation Issues.
UNIT-V
Web-Based Management: NMS with Web Interface and Web-Based Management,
Web Interface to SNMP Management, Embedded Web-Based Management, Desktop
management Interface, Web-Based Enterprise Management, WBEM: Windows
Management Instrumentation, Java management Extensions, Management of a
Storage Area Network , Future Directions.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Network Management, Principles and Practice, Mani Subramanian, Pearson
Education.
2. Principles of Network System Administration, Mark Burges, Wiley Dreamtech.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Network management, Morris, Pearson Education.
2. Distributed Network Management, Paul John Wiley.
209
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II SEM L T/P/D C
Elective - IV 3 0 3
(13ECE023)EMBEDDED REAL TIME OPERATING SYSTEMS
Course Objectives
1. Learn the general embedded system concepts
2. Understand design of embedded hardware and software development tools
3. Learn the basics of OS and RTOS
4. Describe key issues such as CPU scheduling, memory management, task
synchronization, and file system in the context of real-time embedded
systems.
Course Outcomes
After completing this course the student will be able to
• Understand and design real time and non real time embedded systems
• Define the unique design challenges of real-time systems and program them.
• Understand unique characteristics of RTOS and use RTOS to build an
embedded real-time system
• Gain knowledge and skills necessary to design and develop embedded
applications based on real-time operating systems.
UNIT-I
FUNDAMENTALS OF EMBEDDED SYSTEMS
Definition – Classification of Embedded Systems - Processors in the system - Other
Hardware units. Software components - Examples for embedded systems, Design
issues and trends
UNIT-II
EMBEDDED HARDWARE DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT
Processor Architecture- Structured units of a processor - Processor selection factors.
Common memory devices - Memory selection - Memory map - Internal devices & I/O
devices, Serial devices - Parallel port devices, Timer and Counting devices - Direct
memory access, Communication Interface Standards,.
UNIT-III
EMBEDDED SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT ‘
Embedded System Development Process, Embedded Operating systems, Types of
Embedded Operating systems, Host and Target machines, Linkers/Locators for
embedded software, getting embedded software into the target system, Testing on
host machine.
210
UNIT-IV
REAL TIME OPERATING SYSTEMS CONCEPTS -I
Typical OS structure - RTOS structure - The context of its use - Schedule management
for multiple tasks - Scheduling in real time - RTOS task scheduling models – Round
Robin, Round Robin with Interrupts, Priority driven- Preemptive and Non-preemptive
scheduling
UNIT-V
REAL TIME OPERATING SYSTEMS CONCEPTS -II
Tasks and Task states, Tasks and Data, Semaphores and shared data, Message
queues, Mailboxes and Pipes, Timer functions, events, Memory management, Interrupt
routines in an RTOS environment.
Case study of RTOS using MUCOS. Case study for RTOS based programming -
Coding for Automatic Chocolate vending machine using MUCOS.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. An Embedded Software Primer – David E. Simon, Pearson Ed., 2005.
2. Embedded systems - architecture, programming and design - Raj Kamal;
Tata McGraw Hill
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Real time Systems”, J. W. S. Liu, Pearson
2. The 8051 Microcontroller & Embedded Systems using Assembly and C by
Ayala &Gadre,Cengage Publications
211
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech CSE, IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
Elective-IV 3 0 3
(13ECE081)VLSI SYSTEM DESIGN
Course Objectives:
1. To learn the various fabrication steps of IC and come across basic electrical
properties of MOSFET.
2. To study the concepts of stick diagrams and layouts with the knowledge of MOS
layers through design rules.
3. To study gate level design of subsystems and integrated circuits.
4. To learn basic circuit concepts and scaling of MOS transistors.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
1. Understand the various fabrication processes for different FET transistors.
2. Design the basic combinational circuits using stick and layout diagrams.
3. Learn the elecrical properties and circuit concepts of MOS transistors.
4. Design the systems using subsystems design process.
UNIT-I
Review of microelectronics and Introduction to MOS technology: Introduction to
IC technology: Fabrication process: Oxidation, Diffusion, Lithography, Ion Implantation
and Metallisation. Introduction to MOS and related VLSI technology – NMOS-CMOS-
BICMOS Technologies used in VLSI circuits.
UNIT-II
BASIC ELECTRICAL PROPERTIES: Basic Electrical Properties of MOS, CMOS and
BiCMOS Circuits:
I –V relationships, MOS transistor threshold Voltage, g , g , figure of merit w ,
Ds Ds m ds o
Pass transistor, NMOS inverter, CMOS Inverter
UNIT-III
VLSI Circuit Design Process: VLSI Design Flow ,MOS layers , stick diagrams
, design rules and layout –Lambda based design rules for wires, transistors and
contact cuts, Layout Diagrams for logic gates.
UNIT-IV
Basic Circuit concepts and scaling of MOS transistors:
Sheet resitsance, Area capacitance, Delay unit, Inverter Delays ,Rise time and fall time
estimations, wiring capacitance, Choice of layers, Scaling models ,Scaling factors,
Limitaions of scaling.
212
UNIT-V
GATE LEVEL DESIGN AND LAYOUT: Architectural issues, Switch logic networks,
Gate logic, transmission gate logic, Alternate gate circuit: Pseudo-NMOS, Dynamic
CMOS logic.
SUBSYSTEM DESIGN: Subsystem Design, Shifters, Adders, ALUs, Multipliers: Array
multiplier, Serial-Parallel multiplier, Parity generator, Comparators, Zero/One
Detectors, Up/Down Counter.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Basic VLSI design by Douglas A, Pucknell, Kamran Eshraghian,
Prantice Hall, 1996 3rd edition.
2. CMOS VLSI Design – A circuits and systems perspective, Neil H.E Weste ,
David Harris, Ayan Banerjee, pearson ,2009.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. CMOS logic circuit Design – John P. Uyemura , Springer , 2007
2. Modern VLSI Design –Wayne Wolf, Pearson Education , 3rd Edition, 1997.
3. VLSI Design – A.Albert Raj, Latha PHI, 2008.
213
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
ELECTIVE-IV 3 0 3
(13EIE081)ROBOTICS
Course Objectives:
1. Classification by coordinate system and control system
2. Different types Power Sources And Sensors
3. Classification Of Manipulators, Actuators And Grippers
4. Knowledge on kinematics
5. Applications of different Robots
Course Outcomes:
1. Different types of Power Sources and Sensors, Classification Of Manipulators,
Actuators And Grippers
2. Acquire knowledge on different applications of various types of robots.
3. Analyze the direct and the inverse kinematics problems and calculate the
manipulator dynamics
4. Trajectory planning of a robot arm.
5. Analyze end-of arm tooling, automation sensors, robot control and robot
programming.
UNIT-I
Introduction: Classification of robots, basic robot components, manipulator end
effectors, controller, power unit, sensing devices, specification of robot systems,
accuracy precision and repeatability.
Robotic sensing devices:
Position, velocity and acceleration sensors, proximity and range sensors, touch and
slip sensors, tectile sensors, force and torque sensors.
UNIT-II
Robot Motion Analysis:
Manipulator Kinematics, Inverse Manipulator Kinematics, Manipulator Dynamics-
newton-Eulor and Lagrange formulation, Trajector generation.
UNIT-III
Robotic vision system: imaging components, picture coding, object recognition ,
training and vision systems, review of existing vision systems.
UNIT-IV
Robotics programming:
Methods of robot programming, types of programming, robotics programming
languages, artificial intelligence.
214
UNIT-V
Robot applications: material transfer and machine loading /unloading, processing
applications, welding and painting assembly and inspection, future robotic applications
and related technologies developments.
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Industrial robotics: Groover, weiss nagel and odrey, Mc Graw
2. Hill.Robotics engineering: klafter, Chmielwski and nagirn,Prentice hill.
3. Robotics Technology and Flexible Automation / SR Deb
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Robotics for engineering: Yorem Korem, Mc Graw Hill.
2. Robotics:control,sensing vision and intelligence: K.S. Fu, R.C.Gonzalez, C.S.g
Lee, McGraw HILL
3. Fundamentals of Robotics Analysis and control: Robert J. Schiling
215
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech IT – II SEM L T/P/D C
ELECTIVE-IV 3 0 3
(13CSE027)MULTI CORE TECHNOLOGIES
CourseObjectives:
1. Formulate the parallelism techniques
2. Explain the cache memory hierarchy
3. Discuss the multi core architecture
4. Understand the parallel programing for multi core systems
5. Evaluate techniques for multi core CPU
CourseOutcomes:
At the end of the course student should be able to:
1. Understand the concepts of high performance computer architecture
2. Parallel programming for Shared Memory architecture using OpenMP
libraries.
3. Explain different types of synchronization techniques.
4. implement and evaluate techniques for the creation of efficient multi core
CPU programs
5. Develop the parallelism techniques
UNIT-I
INTRODUCTION TO MULTIPROCESSORS AND SCALABILITY: Scalable design
principles – Principles of processor design – Instruction Level Parallelism, Thread level
parallelism. Parallel computer models –- Symmetric and distributed shared memory
architectures – Performance Issues.
UNIT-II
Brief introduction to cache hierarchy and communication latency, Shared memory
multiprocessors, general architectures and the problem of cache coherence.
SYNCHRONIZATION PRIMITIVES: Atomic primitives; locks: TTS, ticket, array;
barriers: central and tree; performance implications in shared memory programs.
UNIT-III
MULTI-CORE ARCHITECTURES - Introduction to multi-core architectures -Software
and hardware multi threading – SMT and CMP architectures –Design issues – Case
studies – Intel Multi-core architecture – SUN CMP architecture., issues involved into
writing code for multi-core architectures, development of programs for these
architectures, program optimizations techniques.
UNIT- IV
PARALLEL PROGRAMMING: Fundamental concepts – Designing for threads –
scheduling - Threading and parallel programming constructs – Synchronization –
216
Critical sections – Deadlock. Threading, API's, OpenMP – Threading a loop – Thread
overheads – Performance issues – Library functions. Solutions to parallel programming
problems – Data races, deadlocks and live locks – Non-blocking algorithms – Memory
and cache related issues.
UNIT-V
CHIP MULTIPROCESSORS: Why CMP (Moore's law, wire delay); shared L2 vs.tiled
CMP; core complexity; power/performance; Snoopy coherence: invalidate vs. update,
MSI, MESI, MOESI, MOSI; performance trade-offs; pipelined snoopy bus design;
Memory consistency models: SC, PC, TSO, PSO, WO/WC, RC.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Shameem Akhter and Jason Roberts, “Multi-core Programming”, Intel Press,
2006.
2. Michael J Quinn, Parallel programming in C with MPI and OpenMP, Tata
Mcgraw Hill, 2003.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. John L. Hennessey and David A. Patterson, “Computer architecture – A
quantitative approach”, Morgan Kaufmann/Elsevier Publishers, 4th. Edition,
2007.
2. David E. Culler, Jaswinder Pal Singh, “Parallel computing architecture: A
hardware/ software approach” , Morgan Kaufmann/Elsevier Publishers, 1999.
217
