SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/R13/R13ME.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
Mechanical Engineering
B.TECH. FOUR YEAR DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2013-2014)
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous Institute
Approved by AICTE & Affiliated to JNTUH
Accredited by NBA and NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
Bachupally, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500090, Telangana State, India
Phone: 040-23042758/59/60; FAX: 040-23042761
E-Mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
1
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
Approved by AICTE & Affiliated to JNTUH
Accredited by NBA and NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS FOR B.TECH. DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for Students admitted from the academic year 2013-2014)
1. Courses of study
The following courses of study are offered at present for specialization for the
B. Tech. Course:
Branch
Branch
Code
01 Civil Engineering.
02 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
03 Mechanical Engineering
04 Electronics and Communication Engineering
05 Computer Science and Engineering.
10 Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
12 Information Technology
24 Automobile Engineering
1.1 Eligibility Criteria for Admission
• The eligibility criteria for admission into engineering programmes shall
be as mentioned below:
• The candidate shall be an Indian National / NRI
• The candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st
December of the academic year for which the admissions are being
conducted.
• The Candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or
equivalent as on the date of admission
1.1 .1 Seats in each programme in the Institution are classified into Category A and
Category B as per the G.Os.
2
a) Category – A Seats
These seats will be filled through counseling as per the rank at the Common
Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by the State Government and as per
other admission criteria laid down in the G.Os.
1.1.2 Category - B Seats
These seats will be filled by the institute as per the G.Os Issued by State
Government from time to time.
1.1.3 Category: Lateral Entry
The candidate shall be admitted into the Third Semester, (2nd year, Ist
Semester) based on the rank secured by the candidate at Engineering
Common Entrance Test (ECET (FDH)) by the Convener, ECET.
2. Distribution and Weightage of Marks
i. The performance of a student in each Semester shall be evaluated subject –
wise with a maximum of 100 marks for theory and 100 marks for
practical subjects. In addition, an Industry oriented mini-project, Seminar,
Comprehensive viva-voce, and Project Work shall be evaluated for 100, 100,
100 and 200 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects the distribution shall be 30 marks for Mid Semester
Evaluation and 70 marks for the End Semester Examination.
For theory subjects, two mid examinations will be conducted in each
Semester as per the academic calendar. Each mid examination is evaluated
for 25 marks.
For the Mid-Examination the Distribution of Marks (25 Marks) as follows
Part-A: - 4 Marks (4X1 Marks) Compulsory
6 Marks (3X2 Marks) Compulsory
Part-B:- 15 Marks (3X5 Marks) 3 out of 4 Questions
Assignment Test/Assignment: - Two assignments are to be given to
students covering the syllabus of First Mid and Second Mid Examinations
respectively and are evaluated for 5 marks each.
The first assignment shall be submitted after first mid examinations and
second Assignment should be submitted after second mid examination.
At the end of the Semester, Internal Marks (Maximum 30) for the respective
subject is assigned as follows:
(a) 25 marks: 80% from the best performed mid examination and 20% from
the other mid examination.
(b) 5 marks: Average of the two assignments/assignment tests
iii. For practical subjects there shall be a continuous evaluation during the
Semester for 30 marks and 70 marks for end examination. Out of the 30
marks, day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be evaluated for 10
marks, and 10 marks for practical examination and 10 marks for laboratory
record.
3
NOTE: A. Student who is absent for any assignment/Mid-term examination
for any reason what so ever shall be deemed to have secured ‘zero’
marks in the test/examination and no makeup test/examination shall be
conducted.
B. If any student absent for mid exam due to Medical/Acute illness
same may be reported in advance to Head of the Department in writing
with a request to reconduct the mid-term examination. The committee
consisting of HOD/Dean-Academics/Dean-Examinations will take the
final decision on the conduct of mid-term examination.
iv For the subjects having design and / or drawing, (such as Engineering
Graphics, Engineering Drawing, Machine Drawing, Production Drawing
Practice, and Estimation etc.,) the distribution shall be 30 marks for internal
evaluation (15 marks for day-to-day work and 15 marks for Mid
examination (the average of the two examinations will be taken into account)
and 70 marks for end semester examination.
V There shall be an industry-oriented mini-Project, in collaboration with an
industry of their specialization, to be taken up during the summer vacation
after III year II Semester examination. The industry oriented mini project
shall be evaluated during the IV year I Semester. The industry oriented
mini project shall be submitted in report form and should be presented before
a committee, which shall be evaluated for 100 marks. The committee
consists of Head of the Department, the supervisor of mini project and a
senior faculty member of the department. There shall be no mid-term
assessment for industry oriented mini project. However, attending the
shadow engineering program is a pre – requisite for evaluating industry
– oriented mini project. Students should submit a report on learning
outcomes of the shadow engineering and Engineer in Mirror. Every student
should attend shadow engineering and Engineer in Mirror programme in an
industry for not more than a week days during second year and third year
respectively.
vi. There shall be a Seminar presentation in IV year II Semester. For the
Seminar, the student shall collect the information on a specialized topic other
than the project topic and prepare a technical report, showing his
understanding of the topic, and submit to the department, which shall be
evaluated by a Departmental committee consisting of the Head of the
Department, Seminar supervisor and a senior faculty member. The seminar
will be evaluated for 100 marks based on the report and presentation
made.
vii. There shall be a Comprehensive Viva-Voce in IV year II Semester. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce will be conducted by a Committee consisting of
the Head of the Department and three Senior Faculty members of the
4
Department after submitting M.T.P record in complete. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce is aimed to assess the student’s understanding in
various subjects studied during the B.Tech course of study. The
Comprehensive Viva-Voce is evaluated for 100 marks by the Committee.
There will be no Midterm assessment for the Comprehensive viva-voce.
viii. The Project work shall be started by the student in the beginning of the IV
year I Semester. Out of a total of 200 marks for the project work, 60 marks
shall be for Midterm Evaluation and 140 marks for the Semester end
Examination. The viva-voce shall be conducted by a committee comprising
of an external examiner, Head of the Department and the project supervisor
and one senior faculty. The evaluation of project work shall be conducted at
the end of the IV year II Semester. The Midterm Evaluation shall be on
the basis of three Seminars conducted during the IV year II Semester for
30 marks by the committee consisting of Head of the Department,
project supervisor and senior faculty member of the Department and for
30 marks by the supervisor of the project.
3. Semester end Examination
(a) Theory Courses
Each course is evaluated for 70 marks. Examination is of 3 hours duration.
Question Paper Pattern is as follows
Part A:- 30 Marks Compulsory
5X1Marks (One question from each unit)
5X2Marks (One question from each unit)
5X3Marks (One question from each unit)
Part B:- 40 Marks (4 out of 6 questions) (At least one question from
each unit)
(b) Practical Courses
Each lab course is evaluated for 70 marks. The examination shall be
conducted by the laboratory teacher and another senior teacher concerned
with the subject of the same/other department/Industry. One of examiner will
be appointed by the Controller of Examinations in consultation with HOD as
and when required and is evaluated as per standard format.
(c ) Supplementary Examinations
Supplementary Examinations will be conducted for the current semester after
the declaration of the results of the regular examination of that semester.
4. Attendance Requirements
i. A student shall be eligible to appear for the Semester end examinations if he /
she acquire a minimum of 75% of attendance in aggregate of all the
subjects for Semester.
5
ii. Condonation of shortage of attendance in aggregate up to 10% (65% and above
and below 75%) in a semester may be granted by Institute Academic
Committee.
iii. A student will not be permitted to write the end examination and not promoted to
the next Semester unless he satisfies the attendance requirement of the present
Semester, as applicable. He may seek re-admission for that Semester when
offered next.
iv. Shortage of Attendance below 65% in aggregate shall in NO case be
condoned.
v. Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned / not paid the stipulated
fee in any Semester are not eligible to take their end semester examination of
that Semester.
5. Minimum Academic Requirements
The following academic requirements have to be satisfied in addition to the
attendance requirements mentioned in item No.4.
i. A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic
requirements and earned the credits allotted to each theory or practical design
or drawing subject or project, if he secures not less than 35% (25 out of 70
marks) of marks in the end examination and a minimum of 40% of marks
in the sum total of the Midterm evaluation and end semester examination
taken together.
ii. A student shall be promoted from II to III year only if he fulfills the academic
requirement of getting 50 credits from the examinations held upto II Year II
Semester including Supplementary examinations of II B.Tech II Semester.
iii. A student shall be promoted from III year to IV year only if he fulfills the
academic requirement of getting a total of 75 credits from the examinations
held upto III Year II Semester including Supplementary examinations of III
B.Tech II Semester.
Iv. A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 200
credits and earn atleast 192 credits. Marks obtained in these credits shall be
considered for the calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) and
percentage of marks.
v. The student should obtain two certificate courses during his/her course of study
vi. Students who fail to earn atleast 192 credits as indicated in the course structure
within eight academic years from the year of their admission shall forfeit
their seat in B.Tech. Course and their admission stand Cancelled.
6. Course pattern
i. The entire course of study is of four academic years. All I, II, III and IV years
are of Semester pattern.
6
ii. A student eligible to appear for the end semester examination in a subject,
but absent or has failed in the end semester examination may reappear for
that subject at the supplementary examination whenever conducted.
iii. When a student is detained due to shortage of attendance in any Semester,
he may be re-admitted into that Semester when it is offered next, with the
academic regulations of the batch into which he gets readmitted.
iv. When a student is detained due to lack of credits in any year, he may be
eligible for promotion to the next year after obtaining required number of
credits and fulfillment of the academic requirements.
Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
A student will be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. Degree if
he/she fulfils the following academic regulations:
i) Pursued a course of study for not less than four academic years and not
more than eight academic years.
ii) Registered for 200 credits and secured a minimum of 192 credits with
compulsory subjects as listed in Table.
Table: Compulsory Subjects
Serial Number Subject Particulars
1. All Practical Subjects
2. Industry oriented mini project
3. Comprehensive Viva-Voce
4. Seminar
5. Project work
iii) The student should obtain two certificate courses during his/her course of
study
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award
of the degree within eight academic years from the year of their
admission, shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech. Course.
7. CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points:
The absolute grading method is followed, based on the total marks
obtained in internal and external examinations. Grades and grade points are
assigned as per the Table given below
B.Tech Program: The Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the total marks
obtained in internal and external examinations. Grades and Grade points are assigned
as given below
7
Marks Obtained Grade Description Grade Points(GP)
of Grade Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A+ Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 A Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 B Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 C Fair 6.00
>=40 and <49.99 D Pass 5.00
<40 F Remedial
Not Appeared the N Absent
Exam(s)
The student is eligible for the award of the B.Tech degree with the class as
mentioned in the Table.
CGPA CLASS
>= 7.5 First Class with Distinction
>= 6.5 and <7.5 First class
>= 5.5 and < 6.5 Second Class
>=5.0 and < 5.5 Pass class
Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
The performance of each student at the end of the each semester is indicated in
terms of SGPA. The SGPA is calculated as below:
Where ‘Ci’ = Number of Credits allotted to particular subject ‘I’
‘Gi’ = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded in that
subject ‘i”
‘i”= 1,2,…..P represent the number of subjects for that particular
semester
8
* SGPA is calculated and awarded for the candidates who pass all the
courses in a semester.
Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) for Entire
Programme. The CGPA is calculated as below:
Assessment of the overall performance of a student is obtained by calculating
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA), which is weighted average of the grade
points obtained in all subjects during the course of study.
Where Ci= Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘I”
Gi = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded in that
subject ‘i”
I= 1,2,….m represent the number of subjects of the entire program.
Grade lower than D in any subject is not considered for CGPA calculation. The
CGPA is awarded only when the student acquires the required number of credits
prescribed for the program.
Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
e) Award list indicating the marks awarded to the student.
8. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to College, or if any case of indiscipline is pending
against him, the result of the candidate may be withheld. The award or issue of
the Degree may also be withheld in such cases.
9. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or
any other academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and
when they become eligible. They have to take up Equivalent subjects, as substitute
subject in place of repetition of subjects as decided by the BoS chairman of the
respective department. He/She will be admitted under the regulation of the batch in
which he/she is readmitted.
10. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each Semester shall be 90 instruction days.
11. There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission process.
9
12. The decision of the Institute Academic Committee will be final in respect of
equivalent subjects for those students who are transferred from other
colleges. The transfer of students from other college or from this institute is
to approved by the Governing Council.
13. General
i. Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include “she”,
“her”, “hers”.
ii. The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
iii. In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arises in the above rules and
regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
iv. The Chairmen Academic Council may change or amend any or all of the
academic regulations or syllabi at any time and the changes or amendments
made shall be applicable to all the students concerned with effect from the
dates notified by the College.
14. Academic Regulations for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2013-2014)
(i) Registered for 150 credits and secured a minimum of 142 credits with
compulsory subjects as listed in table.
Table: Compulsory Subjects
Serial Number Subject Particulars
1. All Practical Subjects
2. Industry oriented mini project
3. Comprehensive Viva-Voce
4. Seminar
5. Project work
(ii) A student who fails to earn a minimum of 142 credits as indicated in the course
structure within six academic years from the year of their admission shall forfeit
their seat in B.Tech. programme and their admission stands cancelled.
(iii) The same attendance regulations are adopted as that of B.Tech. Four year
degree course.
(iv) A student shall be promoted from Third year to Fourth year only on fulfilling the
academic requirements of securing 50 credits from the examinations held upto
III B.Tech II Semester including Supplementary Examinations.
(v) All other regulations as applicable to B.Tech. four year degree course will hold
good for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme).
10
15. Malpractice Rules
Disciplinary Action for Malpractices/Improper Conduct in Examinations
Nature of Malpractices/Improper Punishment
conduct
If the candidate:
1. (a) Possesses or keeps accessible in Expulsion from the examination hall and
examination hall, any paper, note cancellation of the performance in that
book, programmable calculators, Cell subject only.
phones, pager, palm computers or any
other form of material concerned with
or related to the subject of the
examination (theory or practical) in
which he is appearing but has not
made use of (material shall include any
marks on the body of the candidate
which can be used as an aid in the
subject of the examination)
(b)Gives assistance or guidance or Expulsion from the examination hall and
receives it from any other candidate cancellation of the performance in that
orally or by any other body language subject only of all the candidates
methods or communicates through cell involved. In case of an outsider, he will
phones with any candidate or persons be handed over to the police and a case
in or outside the exam hall in respect of is registered against him.
any matter.
2. Has copied in the examination hall Expulsion from the examination hall and
from any paper, book, programmable cancellation of the performance in that
calculators, palm computers or any subject and all other subjects the
other form of material relevant to the candidate has already appeared
subject of the examination (theory or including practical examinations and
practical) in which the candidate is project work and shall not be permitted to
appearing. appear for the remaining examinations of
the subjects of that Semester/year.
The Hall Ticket of the candidate is to be
cancelled.
3. Impersonates any other candidate in The candidate who has impersonated
connection with the examination. shall be expelled from examination hall.
The candidate is also debarred and
forfeits the seat. The performance of the
original candidate who has been
impersonated, shall be cancelled in all
11
the subjects of the examination (including
practicals and project work) already
appeared and shall not be allowed to
appear for examinations of the remaining
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class work
and all end semester examinations. The
continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the academic
regulations in connection with forfeiture
of seat. If the imposter is an outsider, he
will be handed over to the police and a
case is registered against him.
4. Smuggles the Answer book or Expulsion from the examination hall and
additional sheet or takes out or cancellation of performance in that
arranges to send out the question subject and all the other subjects the
paper during the examination or candidate has already appeared
answer book or additional sheet, including practical examinations and
during or after the examination. project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class work
and all end semester examinations. The
continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the academic
regulations in connection with forfeiture
of seat.
5. U s e s o b j e c t i o n a b l e , a b u s i v e o r C a n c e l la t i o n o f the performance in that
offensive language in the answer subject.
paper or in letters to the examiners or
writes to the examiner requesting him
to award pass marks.
6. Refuses to obey the orders of the Chief In case of students of the college, they
Superintendent/Assistant – shall be expelled from examination halls
Superintendent / any officer on duty or and cancellation of their performance in
misbehaves or creates disturbance of that subject and all other subjects the
any kind in and around the candidate(s) has (have) already
examination hall or organizes a walk appeared and shall not be permitted to
12
out or instigates others to walk out, or appear for the remaining examinations of
threatens the officer-in charge or any the subjects of that semester/year. The
person on duty in or outside the candidates are also debarred and forfeit
examination hall of any injury to his their seats. In case of outsiders, they will
person or to any of his relations be handed over to the police and a police
whether by words, either spoken or case is registered against them.
written or by signs or by visible
representation, assaults the officer-in-
charge, or any person on duty in or
outside the examination hall or any of
his relations, or indulges in any other
act of misconduct or mischief which
result in damage to or destruction of
property in the examination hall or any
part of the College campus or engages
in any other act which in the opinion of
the officer on duty amounts to use of
unfair means or misconduct or has the
tendency to disrupt the orderly conduct
of the examination.
7. Leaves the exam hall taking away Expulsion from the examination hall and
answer script or intentionally tears of cancellation of performance in that
the script or any part thereof inside or subject and all the other subjects the
outside the examination hall. candidate has already appeared
including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class work
and all end semester examinations
including supplementary Examinations.
The continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the academic
regulations in connection with forfeiture
of seat.
8. Possess any lethal weapon or firearm Expulsion from the examination hall and
in the examination hall. cancellation of the performance in that
subject and all other subjects the
candidate has already appeared
13
including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred and forfeits
the seat.
9. If student of the college, who is not a If the student belongs to the college,
candidate for the particular expulsion from the examination hall and
examination or any person not cancellation of the performance in that
connected with the college indulges in subject and all other subjects the
any malpractice or improper conduct candidate has already appeared
mentioned in clause 6 to 8. including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred and forfeits
the seat.
Person(s) who do not belong to the
College will be handed over to police
and, a police case will be registered
against them.
10. Comes in a drunken condition to the Expulsion from the examination hall and
examination hall. cancellation of the performance in that
subject and all other subjects the
candidate has already appeared
including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be permitted
for the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year.
11. Copying detected on the basis of Cancellation of the performance in that
internal evidence, such as, during subject and all other subjects the
valuation or during special scrutiny. candidate has appeared including
practical examinations and project work
of that semester/year.
12. If any malpractice is detected which is
not covered in the above clauses 1 to
11 shall be reported to the academic
council of the Institute for further action
to award suitable punishment.
14
Malpractices identified by squad or special invigilators
Punishments to the candidates as per the above guidelines.
Malpractice identified at Spot center during valuation
The following procedure is to be followed in the case of malpractice cases detected
during valuation, scrutiny etc. at spot center.
1) Malpractice is detected at the spot valuation. The case is to be referred to the
malpractice committee. Malpractice committee will meet and discuss/question
the candidate and based on the evidences, the committee will recommend
suitable action on the candidate.
2) A notice is to be served to the candidate(s) involved through the Principal to his
address and to the candidate(s) permanent address regarding the malpractice
and seek explanations.
3) The involvement of staff who are in charge of conducting examinations,
invigilators valuing examination papers and preparing / keeping records of
documents relating to the examinations in such acts (inclusive of providing in
correct or misleading information) that infringe upon the course of natural justice
to one and all concerned at the examinations shall be viewed seriously and
recommended for award of appropriate punishment after thorough enquire.
4) Based on the explanation and recommendation of the committee action may be
initiated.
5) Malpractice committee:
i. Principal Chairman
ii. Controller of Examinations Convener
iii. Invigilator Member
iv. Chief Examiner of the subject/subject expert Member
v. Concerned Heads of the Department Member
15
B.TECH. (MECHANICAL ENGINEERING):
Degree: B.Tech. Specialization: Mechanical Engineering
Duration: 4 Years Details: 8 semesters
Mode of Full-time Year of starting: 1995
Intake: 120 Regulations: R13
(cid:1) Overview of the programme:
Mechanical engineering is a broad and diverse discipline that derives its breadth
from the need to design, analyze and manufacture everything from small to large
components, assemblies., and systems either stationary or in motion. The four
year programme is designed to prepare graduates with creative thinking that
allows them to design a product, use the analytical tools to achieve the design
goals, ability to overcome constraints, work in a team to find solutions with social
relevance. The programme has been running for the last 18 years and is regularly
updated in line with the subject developments and changing industrial practices.
Mechanical engineers learn about materials, solid and fluid mechanics,
thermodynamics, heat transfer, control, instrumentation, design, and
manufacturing processes, etc., to understand mechanical systems. Specialized
mechanical engineering subjects include unconventional machining processes,
composite materials, MEMS, nanotechnology, tribology, vibrations etc.
(cid:1) Objectives:
• To prepare students for successful careers as mechanical engineers in
organizations that meet the needs of Indian and global/multinational
industrial/research establishments.
• To provide a strong foundation in mathematical, scientific and
engineering fundamentals in both domain and cross domain spheres,
that enables students to visualize, analyze and solve mechanical
engineering problems and be innovative and research oriented.
• To train students with a wide spectrum of scientific and engineering
courses so that students could comprehend, analyze, design and create
products and services that address real life problems, which are efficient
and cost effective.
• To inculcate in students a professional and ethical attitude, impart
effective communication skills and ability to work in teams with
multidisciplinary approach, be part of and interact with professional
bodies so as to resolve engineering issues of social relevance.
• To provide students with an academic environment that fosters
excellence, leadership, yearning to pursue higher studies and passion
for lifelong learning so as to have a successful professional career.
16
(cid:1) Outcomes:
• Engineering Knowledge: Graduates will demonstrate basic knowledge
of mathematics, sciences and mechanical engineering and essential
computational techniques/procedures that aid in problem solving and be
in a position to face competitive examinations.
• Problem Analysis: Graduates will demonstrate ability to identify,
critically analyze, formulate and solve mechanical engineering problems.
• Design and Development solutions: Graduates will demonstrate
ability to design a system, a component or a process in the domain of
mechanical engineering, prepare a model, conduct experiments, analyze
and interpret data.
• Conduct Investigations of Complex Problems: Graduates will
demonstrate an ability to visualize and work in engineering and science
laboratories on multidisciplinary tasks as teams, conduct investigations
and solve complex problems.
• Modern tool usage: Graduates will demonstrate skills to use modern
engineering tools, equipments, processes, state of the- art software
packages on modeling and analysis for solving problems.
• The engineer and society: Graduates will demonstrate understanding
of impact of engineering solutions on the society to ensure that no ill
effects befall and be aware of contemporary issues.
• Environment and sustainability: Graduates will demonstrate the
understanding of impact of engineering solutions on the environment to
mitigate any ill effects and ensure sustainability of solutions arrived.
• Ethics: Graduates will demonstrate knowledge, understanding and
application of professional and ethical responsibilities and human values
in all professional transactions.
• Individual and Team Work: Graduates will demonstrate ability to work
as an individual as well as a team member on engineering problems and
be able to understand group dynamics and play his role appropriately in
the group and develope entrepreneurial skills.
• Communication: Graduates will demonstrate ability to communicate
effectively in both verbal and written form.
• Project Management and Finance: Graduates will demonstrate ability
to administer and regulate projects with emphases on time
management, financial management and personnel management.
• Life Long Learning: Graduates will demonstrate penchant for self
education, inclination for updating with developments, participate in
professional societies, interact with stalwarts in the field and continue
life-long learning.
17
(cid:1) Opportunities:
The passed out students of this programmes are well received by the core
manufacturing industry as well as software organizations. The students discharge
responsibilities as design engineers, manufacturing engineers, production
engineers, engineering managers, systems engineers, or R & D engineers. They
are placed in various companies like Tata Consultancy Services, Hyundai, Honda,
Mahindra & Mahindra, Denison Hydraulics - Veljan, info tech, cap Gemini, Rane
Valves to name a few. Some of the graduate students have opted for pursuing
higher studies in various advanced topics of mechanical engineering, both in India
and in universities abroad – US, Germany, Canada etc.
18
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH (ME)
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
13MTH001 Advanced Calculus 3 1 3
13PHY001 Engineering Physics 3 1 3
Chemistry of Engineering
13CHE002 3 0 3
Materials
C and Data Structures
13CSE078 4 1 4
13MED001 Engineering Mechanics – I 4 1 4
13MED101 Engineering Graphics – I 0 6 3
Engg. Physics and Chemistry
13EPC101 0 3 2
Lab
C and Data Structures
13CSE125 0 3 2
Laboratory
Total 17 16 24
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
19
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH (ME)
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
13CED004 Environmental Studies 3 0 3
Linear Algebra and Ordinary
13MTH002 3 1 3
Differential Equations
13PHY002 Physics of Materials 3 0 3
13CHE001 Engineering Chemistry 3 0 3
13ENG001 English 3 0 3
13MED002 Engineering Mechanics – II 4 1 4
Engineering Graphics - II (using
13MED102 0 6 3
AutoCAD)
13MED103 IT and Engineering Workshop 0 3 2
English Language
13ENG101 0 3 2
Communication Skills Lab
Total 19 14 26
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
20
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH (ME)
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Partial Differential Equations
13MTH005 with applications and Complex 3 1 3
Analysis
13MED003 Mechanics of Solids 4 1 4
13MED004 Thermodynamics 4 1 4
Metallurgy and Material
13MED005 4 0 4
Science
Fluid Mechanics and
13MED006 4 1 4
Hydraulic Machines
Metallurgy and Material
13MED104 0 3 2
Science Lab
13MED105 Mechanics of Solids Lab 0 3 2
Fluid Mechanics and
13MED106 0 3 2
Hydraulic Machines Lab
Total 19 13 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
21
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH (ME)
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
Numerical Analysis and Linear
13MTH003 3 1 3
Programming
Business Economics and
13CMS001 4 0 4
Financial Analysis
13MED007 Kinematics of Machinery 4 0 4
13MED008 Thermal Engineering 4 0 4
Basic Electrical and
13EEE079 3 1 3
Electronics Engineering
13MED107 Machine Drawing 0 6 3
13MED108 Thermal Engineering Lab 0 3 2
Basic Electrical and
13EEE179 0 3 2
Electronics Engineering Lab
Total 18 14 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
22
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH (ME)
III YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
13MED009 Production Technology 3 0 3
13MED010 Dynamics of Machinery 4 1 4
Mechanical Engineering
13MED011 4 1 4
Design - I
13MED012 Heat and Mass Transfer 4 1 4
13MED013 Turbo Machinery 3 1 3
13MED014 Operations Research 3 1 3
13MED109 Production Technology Lab 0 3 2
13MED110 Heat and Mass Transfer Lab 0 3 2
Total 21 11 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
23
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH (ME)
III YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
13MED015 Machine Tools 4 1 4
Mechanical Engineering Design -
13MED016 4 1 4
II
13MED017 Metrology and Quality Control 4 0 4
Instrumentation and Control
13EIE080 4 0 4
Systems
Elective – I OPEN
13CED037
Disaster Management
13ITD005 JAVA Programming
13AED010 Modern Automobile Technologies 3 1 3
13MED020 Non Conventional Energy Source
13CSE016 Intellectual Property Rights
13MED111 Machine Tools and Metrology Lab 0 3 2
Advanced English
13ENG102 0 3 2
Communication Skills Laboratory
Instrumentation and Control
13EIE176 0 3 2
Systems Lab
Total 19 12 25
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
24
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH (ME)
IV YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
13MED018 Finite Element Method 3 1 3
13MED019 CAD/CAM 4 0 4
13AED076 Automobile Engineering 3 1 3
Elective – II
13MED021
Automation & Robotics
13MED022 Composite Materials
3 1 3
13MED023 Theory of Metal Cutting
13MED025 Surface Modification Techniques
13MED026 Tool Design
Elective – III
13MED027
Mechanical Vibrations
13MTH006 Probability & Stochastic Process
13MED028 Advanced Solid Mechanics 3 1 3
13MED030 Refrigeration and Air Conditioning
Introduction to Aircraft Industry and
13MED031
Aircraft Systems
13MED112 CAD/CAM Lab 0 3 2
13MED113 Production Drawing Practice Lab 0 3 2
13MED114 Automation & Robotics Lab 0 3 2
13MED204 Comprehensive Viva Voce 0 0 2
13MED201 Industrial Oriented - Mini Project 0 4 2
Total 16 17 26
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
25
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH (ME)
IV YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Subject Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Industrial Engineering and
13MED032 4 0 4
Management
Elective – IV
13MED033 Unconventional Machining processes
13MED034 Nano Science and Technology
3 1 3
13MED036 Design for Manufacturing
13MED037 Principles of Entrepreneurship
13CSE077 Interactive Computer Graphics
Elective – V
13MED038 Product Life Cycle Management
Plant Layout and Material Handling
13MED039
Systems
13MED040 Computational Fluid Dynamics
3 1 3
13MED042 Metal Casting Technology
13MED043 Design of Aircraft Structures
13MED044 Power Plant Engineering
13MED203 Technical Seminar 0 3 2
13MED202 Project Work 0 18 12
Total 10 23 24
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
26
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year I Sem, B.Tech– Common to all branches L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13MTH001) ADVANCED CALCULUS
Course prerequisites: Differentiation, Integration
Course Objectives:
• Understand Taylor’s theorem and its application to maxima and minima of
f(x,y).
• Understand the process of curve sketching.
• Understand multiple integrals and its applications.
• Apply the integral theorems of vector calculus.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Solve problems involving the maxima and minima of f(x,y).
• Apply the curve tracing concepts to find arc length of curves, surface area,
volume of solids of revolution.
• Evaluate the multiple integrals using appropriate change of variables.
• Verify the integral theorems.
UNIT I
CALCULUS OF ONE AND SEVERAL REAL VARIABLES
Mean value thoerems – Rolle’s Thoerem, Lagrange’s Mean value thoerem Cauchy’s
Mean value theorem, Taylor’s expansion and McLaurin’s expansion of functions
(without proofs).
Partial differentiation, partial derivatives of first and second order in terms of partial
derivaties, Jacobian, Euler’s theorem on homogeneous functions, change of variables,
Taylor’s theorem of two variables(without proof) and its application. Maxima and
Minima of two variables, Langrange’s method of undeterrmined multipliers.
UNIT II
CURVE TRACING AND RELATED APPLICATIONS
Curvature of curves in Cartesian, parametric and polar coordinates. Tracing of curves
in Cartesian, parametric and polar coordinates (like conics, astroid, hypocycloid,
Folium of Descartes, Cycloid, Circle, Cardiode, Lemniscate). Applications - finding area
under the curves, Length of the curves, volume and surface area of solids of revolution
UNIT III
MULTIPLE INTEGRALS
Introduction of Multiple integrals, evaluation of double and triple integrals, change of
order of integration change of variables, Cylindrical and Spherical polar coordinates.
27
Application to evaluation of plane areas, volumes and surface areas of solids of
revolution.
UNIT IV
VECTOR DIFFERENTIAL CALCULUS
Scalar and Vector point functions, Gradient, Divergence, Curl with geometrical &
physical interpretation, Directional derivatives, Properties.
UNIT V
VECTOR INTEGRAL CALCULUS
Line integrals and application to Work done and Circulation, Scalar potential function,
Surface integrals and Volume integrals, Gauss divergence theorem, Green’s theorem ,
Stokes’ theorem (theorems without proof).
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – by B. S. Grewal, Khanna publishers
2. Calculus and Analytic Geometry by Thomas and Finney, 9th edition; Publisher:
Pearson Education.
REFERENCES :
1. Elementary Analysis: The Theory of Calculus by Kenneth Ross; Publisher:
Springer
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition; Publisher:
John Wiley.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter ‘O’ Neil, publisher: Cengage
Learning .
4. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa
Publications
28
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year I Sem, B.Tech– Common to all branches L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13PHY001) ENGINEERING PHYSICS
Course Objectives:
• To supplement and enhance the basic concepts in Physics essentially
required in the study of materials as well as interaction of light with matter,
interaction of light with matter through physical phenomena like interference,
diffraction and polarization.
• To know and understand some important applications of lasers and optical
fibers.
• To learn the importance of wave and particle nature of light and to
understand the behavior of an electron in one dimensional potential box.
• To understand the effect of temperature on Fermi Dirac Distribution Function
and also learn the behavior of an electron in a periodic potential, the new
concept of Effective mass of an electron and to know the classification of
materials into conductors, semiconductors and insulators.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Understand the Phenomenon of Interference, Diffraction& Polarization.
• Learn the principle, working, construction and energy mechanism of various
lasers and their applications explain the light signal propagation and
attenuation through optical fiber.
• Understand the differences between particle and wave nature, energy states
in one dimensional potential box and also the Consequences of Heisenberg’s
Uncertainty principle.
• Understand the one dimensional Schrodinger’s wave equation and the effect
of temperature on Fermi-Dirac Distribution, Kronig Penny model.
UNIT – I
INTERFERENCE:
Superposition principle, resultant amplitude, coherence, methods to obtain coherent
sources, interference, Young’s double slit experiment, interference in thin films by
reflection, Newton’s rings Experiment.
DIFFRACTION-I:
Distinguish between Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction, diffraction at single slit
(Qualitative and Quantitative (Phasors approach)).
29
UNIT - II
DIFFRACTION-II
Diffraction at double slit, circular aperture, and multiple slits (grating)( Qualitative
Approach), Resolution of spectral lines, Rayleigh criterion, and resolving power of
grating.
POLARIZATION
Polarization phenomenon, Brewster’s Law and Malus law, examples, types of
polarization, double refraction, Nicol prism, Quarter and Half wave plates.
UNIT – III
LASERS:
Characteristics of Lasers – Spontaneous and Stimulated Emission of radiation, meta
stable state, population inversion, lasing action, Einstein’s coefficients and relation
between them –– Ruby Laser – Helium-Neon Laser –Semiconductor Laser –
Applications of lasers.
FIBER OPTICS:
Principle of optical fiber and properties – Acceptance angle and acceptance cone –
Numerical aperture –Types of fibers and refractive index profiles – Qualitative analysis
of attenuation in optical fibers –Application of optical fibers.
UNIT - IV
ELEMENTS OF STATISTICAL MECHANICS:
Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics (non-mathematical
treatment); Photon gas, Planck’s law of black body radiation; Deduction of Wien’s law
and Rayleigh-Jeans law from Plank’s law.
PRINCIPLES OF QUANTUM MECHANICS:
Waves and particles – De Broglie hypothesis - Matter waves - Davisson and Germer
experiment –Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle - Schrodinger Wave Equation – Wave
function and its Physical Significance - Particle in one dimensional potential box(wave
functions, probability densities and energy states).
UNIT - V
FREE ELECTRON FERMI GAS:
Energy levels in one dimension, Effect of temperature on the Fermi-Dirac distribution,
Free electron gas in three dimensions, electrical conductivity & Ohm’s law, Electrical
Resistivity of Metals (Qualitative).
BAND THEORY OF SOLIDS:
Electron in a periodic potential; Bloch Theorem; Kronig-Penney model (non-
mathematical treatment); Origin of energy band formation in solids; Classification of
materials into conductors, semiconductors & Insulators; and Concept of effective mass
of an electron.
30
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Physics vol.2, by Halliday, Resnick and Krane; John Wiley & Sons.
2. Concepts of Modern physics by Arthur Beiser, McGraw Hill Inc.
3. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel : John Wiley & Sons.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Engineering Physics by R.K.Gaur and S.L.Gupta; Dhanpat Rai and Sons.
2. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd.
3. Optics by Ghatak and Thyagarajan, Tata Mc Graw.
4. Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press.
5. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers.
6. Introduction to Optical Communication by G. Keiser.
7. Quantum Mechanics by Gupta Kumar Sharma.
31
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CE, ME & AE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13CHE002) CHEMISTRY OF ENGINEERING MATERIALS
Course Prerequisites: General chemistry
Course Objectives:
• A sustainable energy supply, is needed for promoting economic development
as well as protecting the environment.
• Understanding the significance of various Engineering materials like cement
abrasives, adhesives and composites in structural enhancement of materials.
• Exposure to refractories and ceramics in industries and most recently,
aerospace technology.
• Familiarize lubricants as a basic and fundamental necessity for the
maintenance of any machines.
Course outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Acquire knowledge of the types of fuels, their sources and purification
techniques.
• Understand the manufacturing process of cement, its properties and usage of
abrasives, adhesives and composites in various industrial processes.
• Benefits of refractories as heat-resistant materials and applications of
ceramics in various fields.
• Knowledge of lubricants in regard to their applications in various machines.
UNIT I
Energy sources
Fuels - classification (solid, liquid, gaseous), calorific value of fuel (HCV, LCV),
determination of calorific value by bomb calorimeter; Solid fuels – coal – analysis –
proximate and ultimate analysis and their significance; Liquid fuels – petroleum,
refining of petroleum, cracking, knocking, synthetic petrol – Bergius and Fischer-
Tropsch’s process. Biofuels- characteristics, biodiesel (preparation, properties and
applications); Gaseous fuels – natural gas, LPG, CNG (composition and uses),
Combustion – problems.
UNIT II
Cement
Types of cement; Chemical constituents and composition of Portland cement;
Manufacturing methods of Portland cement (wet and dry processes); Properties of
cement - Setting & Hardening of cement (reactions); Decay of cement; Cement
concrete - RCC.
32
UNIT III
Engineering materials
III a) Abrasives & Adhesives - Introduction, classification of abrasives, and their
applications. Criteria of a good adhesive, classification and their applications.
III b) Composites: Need for composites, classification and their applications.
UNIT IV
Refractories and Ceramics
Refractories: Definition; Classification with examples; Characteristics of a good
refractory; Causes for the failure of a refractory material; Properties of refractories -
refractoriness, RUL test, porosity.
Ceramics: Introduction; Classification, Glazing and Applications of glazed & non glazed
ceramics.
UNIT V
Lubricants
Criteria of a good lubricant; Classification of lubricants-lubricating oils; Greases or
semisolid lubricants; Solid lubricants; Mechanism of lubrication-fluid film lubrication,
boundary lubrication, and extreme pressure lubrication; Biodegradable lubricants:
types of biodegradable lubricants, advantages and disadvantages of biodegradable
lubricants. Properties of lubricants - viscosity, cloud point, pour point, flash & fire point,
mechanical stability, oiliness, and carbon residue.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, and Jyotsna Cherukuri;
Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain & Monica Jain; Publisher: Dhanpatrai.
3. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara & Mukkanti; Publisher:
S.Chand & Co.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna
2. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Balram Pani; Publisher: Galgotia
Publications Pvt.Ltd.
3. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Shashi Chawla Publisher: Dhanpat rai
&Co
4. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi, Cengage
Learning Publications.
5. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, Sulochana
Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
33
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B. Tech ME & AE - I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13CSE078) C AND DATA STRUCTURES
Course Objectives:
• Gain a working knowledge of C and data structure programming.
• Learn how to write modular, efficient and readable C and data structure
programs.
• Utilize pointers to efficiently solve problems.
• Explore searching and sorting concepts to solve problem.
Course Outcomes:
• Understand the basic terminology used in computer programming.
• Write, compile and debug programs in C language.
• Analyze programs involving decision structures, loops and functions.
• Design programs using searching and sorting techniques.
UNIT – I
INTRODUCTION TO COMPUTERS
Computer Systems, Computing Environments, Computer languages, creating and
running programs, Software Development Methods.
UNIT – II
Algorithm / pseudo code, flowchart, program development steps, structure of C
program, identifiers, basic data types, Constants, variables, operators, expressions,
precedence and order of evaluation.
Input-output statements, if and switch statements, loops- while, do-while and for
statements, break, continue, goto and labels, example C programs.
UNIT - III
FUNCTIONS
Basic concepts, parameter passing, storage classes, scope rules, user defined
functions, standard library functions, recursive functions, example C programs.
ARRAYS
Basic concepts, one-dimensional and two-dimensional arrays, Character array, string
handling functions, example C programs.
UNIT - IV
DERIVED TYPES- STRUCTURES:
Basic concepts, nested structures, arrays of structures, program examples.
POINTERS:
Basic concepts, pointers and functions, pointers and strings, pointers and arrays,
pointers and structures, self referential structures, example C programs.
34
UNIT - V
SEARCHING:
Linear and binary search methods, sorting - Bubble sort, selection sort, Insertion sort.
INTRODUCTION TO DATA STRUCTURES
Dynamic memory allocation, Linked Lists, stacks, queues - implementation using
arrays and Linked Lists.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Computer science, A structured programming approach using C, B.A.
Forouzan and R.F. Gilberg, Third edition, Thomson.
2. The C Programming Language, B.W. Kernighan, Dennis M.Ritchie,
PHI/Pearson Education.
3. C Programming andData structures, E.Balagurusamy,TMH.
REFERENCES:
1. Data Structures Using C - A.S.Tanenbaum, Y. Langsam, and M.J.
Augenstein, PHI/Pearson Education.
2. Programming in C - Stephen G. Kochan, III Edition, Pearson Eductaion.
3. Data Structures and Program Design in C, R.Kruse, C.L. Tondo, BP Leung,
Shashi M, Second Edition, Pearson Education.
35
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ME / AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13MED001) ENGINEERING MECHANICS – I
Course Prerequisites: Physics, Mathematics
Course Objectives:
• Understand particle, body, rigid body, concept of force, analysis of forces
acting on a rigid body.
• Understand moment and the principle of moments.
• Understand friction and its implications.
Course Outcomes: Students will be able to:
• Draw the free body diagram of a body acted upon by a system of forces.
• Analyse the forces acting on a body and write the equations of equilibrium.
• Write the moment equations of equilibrium.
UNIT – I
FORCES:
Introduction to Engineering Mechanics – Basic Concepts: Rigid body, Force,
specifications of a force, Classification of a force system, Composition of force,
Resolution of forces, Rectangular components, parallelogram of forces, Triangle of
forces, Polygon law of forces, Equilibrium of Collinear forces, Equilibrium law,
Superposition and Transmissibility, Law of action and reaction, Free Body Diagram,
Active and reactive forces, Types of supports, Lami’s theorem, Resultant, Equilibrant,
Method of projections, Equations of equilibrium, Resultant of coplanar concurrent
forces, Equilibrium of coplanar concurrent forces.
UNIT – II
MOMENTS:
Moment, Moment of a force, Moment of a force about a point, Moment of a force about
an axis, Arm of the force, Varignon’s principle, Parallel forces, Resultant of parallel
forces, Couple, Moment of a couple about any point lying in the plane, Resolution of a
force into a force-couple and vice versa, Resultant of coplanar non-concurrent forces,
Equilibrium of coplanar non-concurrent forces.
UNIT – III
FRICTION:
Types of Friction, Limiting Friction, Coulomb Laws of Friction, Coefficient of friction
Static friction, Kinetic friction, Angle of friction, Cone of static friction, Equilibrium of
bodies on rough horizontal and inclined planes, Equilibrium of connected bodies on
rough horizontal and inclined planes, Ladder friction, wedge friction, screw friction.
36
UNIT – IV
CENTROID, CENTRE OF GRAVITY:
Centroid, Centroids of simple figures (from basic principles) – Centroids of composite
figures and built-up sections, Centroids of Symmetric figures, Center of parallel forces,
Center of gravity, Centre of gravity of simple bodies (from basic principles), Centre of
gravity of composite bodies, Centre of gravity of Symmetric bodies, Pappus theorems.
UNIT – V
MOMENT OF INERTIA:
Introduction, Moment of inertia of plane areas, Radius of gyration, Polar moment of
inertia, Parallel axis theorem, Perpendicular axis theorem, Moments of inertia of simple
figures from basic principles and composite figures. Product of inertia, moment of
inertia about inclined axis, Principle moment of inertia. Mass moment of Inertia:
Introduction, Moments of inertia of simple bodies from basic principles and composite
bodies.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Mechanics by Timoshenko and Young, Tata Mc-Graw Hill Publishers.
2. Engineering Mechanics by RC Hibbeler,pearson publishers.
3. Engineering Mechanics by S.S. Bhavikatti, New age International Publishers.
REFERENCES:
1. Singer’s Engineering Mechanics by K. Vijaya Kumar Reddy ,BS Publishers.
2. Engineering Mechanics (Statics) by Meriam and Kraige, John Wiley Publishers.
3. Engineering Mechanics by Tayal, Umesh Publishers.
37
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME / AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 6 3
(13MED101) ENGINEERING GRAPHICS-1
Course Prerequisites: Geometrical construction
Course Objectives:
• Understand the usage of drawing instruments.
• Understand the construction methods for drawing conic sections.
• Identify the significance of curves in engineering practice like bridges,
building, arches etc.
• Understand first and third angle projections and methods.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Visualize the objects looking into projections.
• Convert projections for isometric to orthographic and vice versa.
• Work with Auto CAD for the above
UNIT I
Introduction to AutoCAD.
INTRODUCTION TO ENGINEERING DRAWING
Principles of engineering graphics and their significance; Drawing instruments and their
uses; Conventions in drawing-lettering; BIS Convention; Different types of scales;
Scale of chords.
UNIT II
CURVES USED IN ENGINEERING PRACTICE AND THEIR CONSTRUCTION
Ellipse; Parabola; Hyperbola and Rectangular hyperbola; Cycloid; Epicycloids;
Hypocycloid – Involutes.
UNIT III
PROJECTION OF POINTS AND LINES
Points and straight lines inclined to both planes; True lengths and traces.
UNIT IV
PROJECTION OF PLANES
Projection of regular planes inclined to both planes; Auxiliary projections.
UNIT V
PROJECTION OF SOLIDS
Projection of regular solids-inclined to both planes; Auxiliary projections.
38
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Elementary Engineering Drawing by N.D. Bhatt; Publisher: Charotar Publishing
House.
2. Engineering Drawing by K.L. Narayana and P. Kannaiah; Publisher: Scitech
Publications.
3. Engineering Graphics for degree by K.C. John; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
39
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ME / AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13EPC101)ENGINEERING PHYSICS AND CHEMISTRY LAB
ENGINEERING PHYSICS LAB
Course Objectives:
• To practically learn interaction of light with matter through physical
phenomena like interference, diffraction and dispersion.
• To expose to the principle of superposition and resonance.
• To demonstrate the formation of standing waves and to understand the
mechanical wave behavior and to determine Rigidity Modulus of different
materials of wires.
• To demonstrate basic discharge phenomenon in capacitors and to know the
characteristics of the circuit elements, like resistors, capacitors and inductors.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Understand clearly the interference principle in wave theory of light and able
to relate it to the formation of Newton Rings and Obtain a pure spectrum
when light passes through prism
• Understand the formation and propagation of mechanical waves
• Study simple oscillations of a load attached to a string and relate it to nature
of material of string
• Understand the physical significance of time constant and related uses
Any Eight Experiments from the following:
1. Dispersive Power of the material of a Prism using Spectrometer
2. Diffraction Grating (both with Laser and non laser source)
3. Single Slit with laser light
4. Newton’s Rings
5. Finding thickness of a thin wire or sheet by forming a wedge shaped film
6. Energy gap of a semiconductor material
7. To determine the rigidity modulus of material of a wire
8. Melde’s experiment
9. Sonometer Experiment
10. AC frequency by sonometer method
11. Numerical Aperture and Acceptance angle of an optical fiber cable
12. Attenuation and Bending losses in optical fiber
13. Stewart Gee’s experiment
14. Characteristics of LED/Laser Diode.
15. Photo cell/ Solar Cell
40
16. RC circuit
Book: Essential Practical Lab Manual in Physics: by P.Raghavendra Rao
ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LAB
Course Prerequisites: General Maths, General chemistry.
Course Objectives:
• Estimation of hardness of water is essential for drinking water and in
industries to avoid boiler troubles.
• Knowledge of instrumentation in Colorimeter, Redwood viscometer,
Conductivity meter and pH meter.
• Knowledge of preparation of soap.
Course Outcomes: Students will be able to
• Understand the extent of hardness range present in a water sample and its
consequences if used for various industrial operations.
• Determination of strength of solutions, pH of various solutions, lubricants
usage in machinery to prevent wear and tear.
• Understanding the composition of soap used for washings.
1. TITRIMETRY
Estimation of hardness of water by EDTA method.
2. INSTRUMENTAL METHODS
(i) Conductometry
Conductometric titration of strong acid Vs Strong base
(ii) Colorimetry
Estimation of copper by colorimetric method
(iii) pH Metry
Titration of strong acid Vs Strong base by pH Metry
3. PHYSICAL PROPERTIES
Determination of viscosity of sample oil by Redwood viscometer.
4. PREPARATIONS
Preparation of i) soap ii) Nano-particles
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by S.K.Bhasin and Sudha Rani,
Dhanpat Rai Publishing Company.
2. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna
Cherukuri, VGS Book Links, Vijayawada
41
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B. Tech ME & AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13CSE125) C AND DATA STRUCTURES LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
• Gain a working knowledge of C data structure programming
• Learn how to write modular, efficient and readable C and data structure programs
• Utilize pointers to efficiently solve problems
• Utilize searching and sorting concepts to solve problem
Course Outcomes:
• Use different data types in a computer program.
• Design programs involving decision structures, loops and functions, structures
and pointers.
• Design programs using searching and sorting techniques.
• Understand stacks, Queues implementation using linked lists.
Week 1
1. Write a program that reads three different integers from the keyboard and
prints – sum, average, product, smallest, largest of the numbers.
2. Write a program that reads two integers and prints – difference, quotient and
remainder.
3. WAP that reads two integers and determines whether the first is a multiple of
the other.
Week 2
1. Write a C program to find the sum of individual digits of a positive integer.
2. Write a C program for Fibonacci sequence.
3. Write a C program to generate the first n terms of the sequence.
4. Write a C program to generate all the prime numbers between 1 and n,
where n is a value supplied by the user.
Week 3
1. Write a C program to calculate the following Sum:
Sum=1-x2/2! +x4/4!-x6/6!+x8/8!-x10/10!
2. Write a C program toe find the roots of a quadratic equation.
Week 4
1. Write C programs that use both recursive and non-recursive functions
i) To find the factorial of a given integer.
ii) To find the GCD (greatest common divisor) of two given integers.
iii) To solve Towers of Hanoi problem.
42
Week 5
1. Write a C program, which takes two integer operands and one operator from
the user,
Performs the operation and then prints the result. (Consider the operators +,-
,*, /, % and use Switch Statement)
2. Write a program to print a given number [0-1000] in words. For example, 123
as One Hundred and Twenty Three
Week 6
1. WAP to check whether a given number is an Armstrong, Palindrome, Perfect,
Prime, or a Fibonacci Number
2. Write a C program to find both the largest and smallest number in a list of
integers
Week 7
1. Write a C program to generate Pascal’s triangle.
2. Write a C program to construct a pyramid of numbers.
Week 8
1. Write a C program to calculate
i) Minimum and maximum of an 1-d array
ii) Sorting an array
iii) Searching an array
Week 9
1. Write a C program that uses functions to perform the following:
i) Addition of Two Matrices
ii) Multiplication of Two Matrices
iii) To find the determinant of a 3 by 3 matrix
Week 10
1. Write a C program that uses functions to perform the following operations
using Pointers:
i) To insert a sub-string in to a given main string from a given position.
ii) To delete n Characters from a given position in a given string.
iii) To reverse a given string
Week 11
1. Write C Programs to implement Structures and Nested structures with
suitable Examples
(Students has to practice with relevant examples taught in the class room)
Week 12
1. Write C Programs using Pointers and Pointer Arithmetic operations
2. Write C Programs using Pointers to structures, Pointers to Arrays and
Pointers to strings
(Students has to practice with relevant examples taught in the class room)
43
Week 13
1. Write C Programs to implement the following sorting algorithms
a. Bubble Sort b. Selection sort c. Insertion Sort
Week 14
1. Write a C program to implement STACK and QUEUE operations using Arrays.
2. Write a C program to implement STACK and QUEUE operations using Linked
Lists
Week 15
1. Write a C programs to implement the following searching techniques.
a. Linear Search b. Binary Search
Week 16
Lab Internal Examination
44
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B. Tech ME / AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13CED004) ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
Course Objectives:
• Develop an understanding of the necessity of protection of environment.
• Develop an understanding of Natural resources.
• Develop an understanding of Biodiversity.
• Develop an understanding of Global Environmental problems.
• Develop an understanding of Environmental pollution.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Acquire the knowledge on environment.
• Acquire the knowledge of various Natural Resources.
• Develop skills in understanding of various environmental problems.
• Develop skills to protect the Environment.
UNIT-I
Environmental Studies:
Introduction, Definition, scope and importance, Ecosystems: Introduction, types,
characteristic features, structure and functions of ecosystems. Bio geo chemical cycle,
Classification of Eco system.
UNIT-II
Natural Resources :classification of Resources, Land resources, Land as resource,
Common property resources, Land degradation, Soil erosion and desertification,
Effects of modern agriculture, fertilizer –pesticide problems, Forest resources, Use and
over-exploitation.
Mining and dams – their effects on forest and tribal people, Water resources, Use and
over- utilization of surface and groundwater, Floods, droughts, Water logging and
salinity, Dams –benefits and costs, Conflicts over Water, Energy resources.
UNIT-III
Bio-diversity and its conservation, Value of bio-diversity - consumptive and productive
use, social, ethical, aesthetic and option values, Bio-geographical classification of India
– India as a mega diversity habitat, Threats to bio-diversity –Hot-spots, habitat loss,
poaching of wild life, loss of species, seeds, etc. Conservation of bio-diversity – Insitu
and Ex-situ conservation.
45
UNIT-IV
Environmental Pollution –Local and Global Issues, Nature of thermal pollution and
nuclear hazards, Global warming, Acid rain, Ozone depletion., Environmental case
studies.
UNIT-V
Environmental Problems in India, Drinking water, sanitation and public health, Effects
of the activities on the quality of environment, Water scarcity and groundwater
depletion, Controversies on major dams – resettlement and rehabilitation of people:
problems and concerns, Rain water harvesting, cloud seeding and watershed
management. Economy and Environment, The economy and environment interaction,
Economics of development, preservation and conservation, Sustainability: theory and
practices, Limits to growth, Equitable use of resources for sustainable life styles,
Environmental Impact Assessment.
Text Books
1. Environmental Science - Y. Anjaneyulu, B S Publications.
2. Environmental studies-Deeksha dave, Cengage learning India Pvt. Ltd.,
3. Environmental sciences and Engineering - P. Venugopal Rao, PHI learning Pvt.
Ltd.,
4. Environmental Science and Technology by M. Anji Reddy, B S Publications.
Reference books
1. Clark, R.S., Marine Pollution, Clanderson Press, Oxford, 2002.
2. Cunningham, W.P., et al., Environmental Encyclopedia, Jaico Publishing
House, Mumbai, 2003.
46
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech.– II Sem, Common to all branches L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13MTH002) LINEAR ALGEBRA AND ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
Course prerequisites: Matrices, Differentiation and Integration
Course Objectives:
• Understand the Echolen form and Normal form of a matrix and its
applications in solving linear system of equations.
• Understand the methods of solving first order differential equations and learn
about its applications to L-R and R-C circuits.
• Apply the convolution theorem to evaluate Laplace Transform of the
functions.
• Apply Z-Transforms in solving the difference equations.
Course Outcomes: Students will be able to:
• Find the rank using Echolen form and Normal form.
• Solve the problems in first order and second order differential equations.
• Learn Laplace Transform as a tool.
• Evaluate the Z-Transform of the given function.
UNIT-I
LINEAR ALGEBRA – MATRICES
Rank of matrix, Hermitian and skew – Hermitian matrices, Inverse of matrix by
elementary operations. Consistency of linear simultaneous equations, Eigen values
and eigen vectors, Diagonalisation of a matrix(including the case of repeated eigen
values). Caley – Hamilton theorem (without proof), Quadratic forms - reduction of
quadratic form to canonical form by linear transformation.
UNIT-II
ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS AND THEIR APPLICATIONS
Differential equations of first order and first degree - Exact differential equation , Linear
and Bernoulli differential equation, Applications of differential equations of first order
and first degree - Newton’s law of cooling, Law of natural growth and decay,
Orthogonal trajectories, and basic circuits(L-R Circuits, R-C Circuits).
UNIT-III
DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS OF HIGHER ORDER AND THEIR APPLICATIONS
Differential equations of higher order - homogeneous and non-homogenous type,
differential equations of second order and higher order with constant coefficients with
ax
ax
right hand side term of the type e sin (ax), cos (ax), polynomials in x, e ,
V(x), x V(x) and method of variation of parameters ; Euler-Cauchy’s 2nd order
47
differential equations, applications to spring mass system ,Simple harmonic motion and
L-C-R Circuits.
UNIT-IV
LAPLACE TRANSFORMS
Existence condition, Laplace transform of standard functions, Properties, Inverse
Laplace transform of functions using partial fractions, Convolution theorem(statement
only). Solving linear differential equations using Laplace transform. Unit step function,
Impulse function and Periodic function and their transforms.
UNIT- V
Z-TRANSFORMS
z-transform; Inverse z-transform; Properties, initial, and final value theorems;
Convolution theorem(theorems without proofs); Difference equations; Solutions of
difference equations using z-transform.
TEXT BOOKS :
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – B. S. Grewal,Khanna publishers.
2. A First Course in Differential Equations by Dennis G. Zill; Publisher: Brooks Cole
publiers.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa
Publications.
REFERENCES :
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher:
John Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher:
Cengage Learning
48
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ME / AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13PHY002) PHYSICS OF MATERIALS
Course Objectives:
• To learn the structure of solids, crystal systems, packing and arrangement of
particles in crystals, simple planes and directions in solids, defects in crystals.
• To learn the properties of magnetic materials and classification, Dielectric
materials.
• To learn the concept and applications of superconductors.
• To introduce new concepts like surface phenomena and nano science.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Identify different crystal types various planes and directions in crystals and
estimate one dimentional crystal defects.
• Learn the magnetic properties of materials classify the magnetic materials
into Dia, Para and ferro.
• Learn the characteristics, properties and applications of superconductors and
magnetic materials.
• Realize surface phenomena are different from bulk; learn methods to
estimate work functions. and Compare optical and electron microscopes and
learn principles of SEM&TEM.
UNIT - I
CRYSTAL STRUCTURES:
Space lattice – Unit cell – Lattice parameters – Crystal systems – Bravais lattice-
Atomic radius – Co-ordination number - Structures and Packing fractions of Simple
Cubic – Body Centered Cubic – Face Centered Cubic – Hexagonally closed packed &
diamond Cubic Crystals.
BONDING IN SOLIDS:
Force and energy between two approaching atoms, primary and secondary bonds,
binding energy and cohesive energy, Madelung constant, cohesive energy and
Madelung constant for NaCl crystal
UNIT -II
DIRECTIONS, PLANES AND X-RD:
Miller Indices for Crystal planes and directions – Inter planar spacing of orthogonal
crystal systems –Diffraction of X-rays by crystal planes and Bragg’s law– Laue method
– Powder method.
49
DEFECTS IN SOLIDS:
Imperfections in crystals – Point defects (Vacancies, Interstitial and Impurities)
Schottky and Frenkel defects – (with mathematical treatment)- Line imperfections –
Edge and Screw dislocation – Burger vector – Surface defects and volume defects
(Qualitative Treatment).
UNIT - III
MAGNETIC PROPERTIES OF MATERIALS:
Permeability, Field intensity, magnetic field induction, Magnetization and Magnetic
susceptibility – Origin of magnetic moment, Bohr magneton – Classification of
magnetic materials (Dia, Para and Ferro)- Domain theory of ferromagnetism,
Hysteresis curve – Soft and Hard magnetic materials – Ferrites and their applications.
UNIT - IV
DIELECTRIC PROPERTIES:
Electric dipole, Dipole moment, Dielectric constant, Electronic, Ionic and Orientation
Polarization – Calculation of Polarizibilities – Internal fields – Claussius – Mossotti
equation –Piezo and Ferro electricity
SUPERCONDUCTORS:
Experimental survey and superconductivity phenomenon, – Meissner effect – Critical
fields and Persistent currents, Type I and Type II superconductors - London equations-
flux quantization, Applications of Superconductors.
UNIT - V
SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY OF NANOMATERIALS:
Work function, Thermionic emission, Contact Potential, Electron Microscope, Scanning
Tunneling Microscope. Origin of nano science – (Basic principles of Nanoscience &
Technology) surface to volume ratio, quantum confinement – Fabrication of nano
materials, Bottom up fabrication: sol-gel & combustion methods – Top down
fabrication: CVD& PVD methods– Applications of nanotechnology.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel (Publishers: John Wiley &
Sons)
2. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd
REFERENCES:
1. Solid State Physics by A.J.Dekker; Macmillan Publishers India Lt.
2. Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
3. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
4. Engineering Physics by M.R.Srinivasan, New Age Publishers
5. Solid State Physics by M.A. Wahab.
50
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CE, ME, AE, ECE, EEE,
L T/P/D C
EIE – II Sem
3 0 3
(13CHE001) ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
Course Prerequisites: General Chemistry
Course Objectives:
• Understand electrochemistry which deals with the utilization of electrical
energy of an external source for bringing about a physical or chemical
change.
• Knowledge of “Corrosion engineering education” and Usage of polymers in
modern world as an integral part of every human’s life.
• Knowledge of purification techniques and various applications of soft water in
industries.
• Usage of nanomaterials as emerging scientific components with amazing
potential applications in various fields.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Visualize the chemical applications of electricity.
• Prevention of corrosion of metals and applications of polymers from domestic
articles to sophisticated scientific and medical instruments.
• Benefits of treated water as source in steam generation and other fields like
production of steel, paper, textiles, atomic energy etc.
• The applicability and greater efficiency of using a material at nanoscale in
different
• Engineering fields.
UNIT I
Electrochemical cells and batteries
Conductance-factors effecting conductance, conductometric titrations; cells: types of
cells, cell representation, electrode potential; Standard electrode potential;
Electrochemical series; Nernst equation; Reference electrodes – hydrogen, calomel
electrode; Ion selective electrodes (glass electrode & flouride electrode); Numerical
problems.
Batteries
Primary and secondary cells (lead-acid cell; Ni-Cd cell; lithium cells); Applications of
batteries; Fuel cells – methanol – oxygen fuel cells, advantages of fuel cells; Solar cells
- principle, and applications.
51
UNIT II
Corrosion and its control
Introduction; Causes and effects of corrosion; Different types of corrosion; Theories of
corrosion – chemical, electrochemical corrosion (reactions); Factors affecting corrosion
– nature of metal (galvanic series; over voltage; purity of metal; nature of oxide film;
nature of corrosion product), and nature of environment (effect of temperature; effect
of pH; humidity; effect of oxidant).Corrosion control methods – cathodic protection,
sacrificial anode, and impressed current cathode; Surface coatings – methods of
application on metals (hot dipping; galvanizing; tinning; cladding; electroplating), and
organic surface coatings (paints - constituents and functions).
UNIT III
III a) Polymers
Introduction; Types of polymerization; Plastics - thermoplastic resins, and thermoset
resins; Compounding & fabrication of plastics; Preparation, properties, and engineering
applications of polyethylene, PVC, PS, Teflon, bakelite, nylon.
III b) Rubber
Natural rubber- processing, vulcanization; Elastomers (Buna-s; Butyl rubber; Thiokol
rubbers); Fiber reinforced plastics (FRP) and their applications.
UNIT IV
Water
Introduction; Hardness - causes, expression of hardness, units, types of hardness,
estimation of temporary & permanent hardness of water, and numerical problems;
Boiler troubles – scale & sludge formation, caustic embrittlement, corrosion, priming &
foaming; Softening of water (Internal & external treatment - lime soda, zeolite, ion
exchange process, and numerical problems); Reverse osmosis and Electro dialysis
(desalination processes).
UNIT V
Nanomaterials
Introduction; Preparation and applications of nanomaterials with special reference to
carbon nanotubes.
Insulators
Classification of insulators; characteristics of thermal & electrical insulators and their
applications; Superconductors - YBa Cu O ; Applications of superconductors.
2 3 7-x
52
TEXT BOOKS
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna Cherukuri;
Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain & Monica Jain, Publisher: Dhanpatrai
Publishing Company.
REFERENCES
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara & Mukkanti; Publisher:
S.Chand & Co.
2. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna.
3. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, Sulochana
Nagarajan Vikas Publishers.
4. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi, Cengage
Learning Publications.
53
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech (Common to all Branches) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13ENG001) ENGLISH
Introduction
This is the age of information and communication technologies. Engineers and
technical professionals need to convey technical information in English for various
purposes.
Besides learning general English as an international language, engineering students
need to be equipped with adequate writing ability so that they can communicate
technical information clearly on at least a basic level. A good English writing proficiency
can be a contributing factor to professional recognition and career prospects. This
course teaches those writing strategies that scientists, engineers, and others will need
in order to write successfully on the job. It initiates the students into Technical Writing.
The purposes of technical writing are to inform and persuade. This program aims to
train students in writing clear, concise and effective English.
This Syllabus is therefore, a Pragmatic English Writing Program for engineering
students with intermediate proficiency. The program covers a syllabus outline and
instructional approaches on basic writing skills with particular reference to technical
writing.
Course Objectives:
• To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for advanced writing and
speaking.
• To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns and
grammatical constructions required in technical writing as well as oral
presentation.
• To acquaint the students with the writing process in preparation for
academic and workplace writing.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Comprehend technical writing produced in the engineering profession.
• Understand the writing process and create logical paragraphs.
• Use infrastructural patterns in writing and speaking.
Methodology
A Task-based, process oriented methodology will be used by the teachers to give a
practical orientation to the teaching of language. An inductive approach will be used to
demonstrate the use of language in context. This should enable the students to
internalize the language structures and vocabulary used in context. Students will be
54
exposed to numerous examples and ample practice will be given in the contextual use
of language structures.
Syllabus Outline
Unit I : Review of Grammar
i) Common Errors v) Use of Articles and Prepositions
ii) Subject-Verb Agreement vi) Conjunctions
iii) Adverbs vii) pronoun reference
iv) Transitional elements
Unit II : Prose 1
1. Heaven’s Gate by Pico Iyer
2. The Connoisseur by Nergis Dalal
Unit III Reading and Writing Skills
i) Reading Comprehension -- Skimming & scanning
ii) Reading Comprehension -- Intensive reading
iii) Reading Comprehension -- Critical Analysis
iv) Paragraph Writing
v) Letter Writing
vi) Memo Writing
Unit IV : Prose 2
1. The Cuddalore Experience by Anu George
2. The Odds Against Us by Satyajit Ray
Unit V : Advanced Writing Skills
1. Comparison and Contrast Pattern
2. Cause and Effect Pattern
3. Classification
4. Analogy
5. Problem-Solution Pattern
Prescribed Text Books
1. Enjoying Everyday English by A. Ramakrishna Rao
2. Effective Technical Communication by Ashraf Rizvi
3. Technical Writing Process and Product by Gerson Sharon J. and Steven
Gerson. 3rd edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
References
1. M. Raman and S. Sharma, 2004; Technical Communication : Principles and
Practices, OUP, (Indian Edition)
2. Blanton, L.L. 1993; Composition Practice, Book 4 ,Second Edition, Heinle &
Heinle Publishers, pp. 54
3. Georges, T.M. 1996; A course in Analytical Writing for Science and
Technology,
http://www.mspiggy.etl.noaa.gov/write/
55
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ME / AE II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13MED002) ENGINEERING MECHANICS – II
Course Prerequisite: Physics, Mathematics, Engineering Mechanics – I
Course Objectives:
• Understand trusses and their analysis using various methods.
• Understanding principle of virtual work and its applications.
• Understanding kinematics and kinetics parts of machines.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Draw the Free Body Diagram of a truss acted upon by a system of forces and
analyze the truss.
• Identify elements of virtual work and analyze them.
• Identify various links of machines and synthesize kinematics and kinetic parts
of design components.
UNIT – I
TRUSSES:
Introduction –Types of Trusses, Assumptions made in the analysis of Trusses, Method
of Joints, Method of Sections, Force table, Cantilever Trusses, Trusses with one end
hinged and the other freely supported on rollers carrying horizontal or inclined loads.
Frames: Introduction, Types of Frames, Method of members.
UNIT – II
VIRTUAL WORK:
Equilibrium of ideal systems, Virtual displacement, Concept of virtual work, Principle of
virtual work, Application of principle of virtual work to beams, ladders, framed
structures.
UNIT – III
KINEMATICS:
Kinematics of particles - Path, Tortuous path, Plane path, Rectilinear motion,
Displacement, Displacement time diagram, Velocity, Instantaneous velocity, Average
velocity, Velocity time diagram, Acceleration, Variable acceleration, Average
acceleration, Curvilinear motions, normal and tangential accelerations, Projectiles,
Kinematics of rigid bodies rotation about a fixed axis
56
UNIT - IV
KINETICS:
Kinetics of particles, Newton’s Second Law, differential equations of rectilinear and
curvilinear motions, motion of a particle acted upon by constant force, Dynamic
equilibrium, Inertia force, D’Alembert’s Principle applied for rectilinear and curvilinear
motion, Kinetics of rigid bodies in rotation under action of a constant moment.
UNIT – V
WORK–ENERGY, IMPULSE–MOMENTUM METHOD:
Work of a force, Principle of Work and Energy, Application of principle of Work-Energy
for rectilinear motion, Impulse-Momentum Principle, Application of Impulse-Momentum
principle to connected bodies. Moment of momentum, Application of principle of Work-
Energy for curvilinear motion.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Mechanics by Timoshenko and Young, Tata Mc-Graw Hill
Publishers.
2. Engineering Mechanics by S.S. Bhavikatti, New age International Publishers.
3. Engineering Mechanics by R.K. Bansal, Laxmi Publishers.
REFERENCES:
1. Singer’s Engineering Mechanics by K. Vijaya Kumar Reddy, BS Publishers.
2. Engineering Mechanics (Statics) by Meriam and Kraige, John Wiley
Publishers.
3. Engineering Mechanics by Tayal, Umesh Publishers.
57
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME / AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 6 3
(13MED102) ENGINEERING GRAPHICS – II (USING AUTOCAD)
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Graphics -I
Course Objectives:
• Understand the concept of section of solids, development of surfaces, intersection
of surfaces.
• Learn the various types of projections- orthographic and pictorial.
• Understand the importance and the principles of perspective projections.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Construct the true shape of section and also obtain the development of
surfaces of various solids using AutoCAD.
• Obtain the intersection of surfaces of solids like prism, cyclinder and cone,
using AutoCAD.
• Visualize the objects and convert them in different projections –
orthographic, isometric and pictorial using AutoCAD.
UNIT I
SECTIONS AND SECTIONAL VIEWS
Sections of right regular solids-prisms, pyramids, cylinders and cones – auxiliary views.
DEVELOPMENT OF SURFACES
Development of surfaces of right regular solids prisms, pyramids, cylinders and cones.
UNIT II
INTERSECTION OF SOLIDS
Intersection of prism vs prism, cylinder vs prism, cylinder vs cylinder and cylinder vs
cone.
UNIT III
ISOMETRIC PROJECTIONS
Principles of isometric projections, isometric scale, isometric views, conventions,
isometric views of lines, planes, simple and compound solids, isometric views of
objects having spherical parts.
UNIT IV
TRANSFORMATION OF PROJECTIONS
Conversion of isometric views to orthographic views - conventions for simple objects.
Construction of orthographic projections for given isometric projections.
58
UNIT V
PERSPECTIVE PROJECTIONS
Perspective view of points, lines, plane figures and simple solids, vanishing point
method and visual ray method.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Elementary Engineering Drawing by N.D.Bhat; Publisher: Charotar Publishing
House.
2. Engineering Drawing by K.L. Narayana and P. Kannaiah; Publisher: Scitech
Publications.
3. Engineering Graphics for degree by K.C. John; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
59
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ME / AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED103) IT AND ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
Course Prerequisites:
Course Objectives:
• To study/demonstrate the concepts of computer w.r.t. its hardware, operating
system, assembling and disassembling.
• To conduct the experiments related to production engineering technology.
• To demonstrate the usage of power tools, CNC lathe and machine shop for
different exercises.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Identify, assemble, dissemble, install and write commands for a given
configuration of a computer.
• To develop components using the techniques of carpentry, tin smithy,
forging, etc. listed in trades for exercises.
• To work out the given models in machine shop and CNC lathe.
IT WORKSHOP
1. Computer Hardware: Identification of Peripherals
2. Assembling and disassembling of a PC
3. Simple diagnostic exercises – Related to hardware
4. Installation of Windows Operating System
5. Installation of Linux Operating System
6. Linux Basic Commands
7. Simple diagnostic exercises –Related to Operating System
TEXTBOOKS:
1. IT Essentials PC Hardware and Software Companion Guide Third Edition by
Davis Anfinson and Ken Quamme CISC Press, Pearson Education.
2. PC Hardware and A+ Handbook – Kate J. Chase PHI (Microsoft)
ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
TRADES FOR EXCERCISES
At least two exercises from each trade:
1. Carpentry
2. Tin-Smithy
3. Fitting
4. Welding
5. Electrical Wiring
60
TRADES FOR DEMONSTRATION and EXPOSURE:
1. Power tools in construction, wood working, electrical engineering and
mechanical engineering.
2. Machine shop.
3. CNC Lathe.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Workshop Manual by P.Kannaiah and K.L.Narayana; Publisher: Scitech.
61
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech ( Common to all branches ) L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13ENG101) ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
The English language Communication Skills Lab aims to provide practice in all the four
skills of LSRW, with a special emphasis on listening and speaking skills.
Course Objectives
• Provide ample practice in LSRW skills.
• Provide practice in grammatical construction, structural patterns, word usage
and improve comprehension abilities in the students.
• Train students to use neutral pronunciation through phonetic sounds,
symbols, stress and intonation.
• Enable students to transfer information from verbal to graphic representation
and vice versa.
• Train students to use effective language for oral presentations, public
speaking, role play and situational dialogue.
Course Outcomes
• Comprehend spoken and written discourse.
• Speak fluently with neutral pronunciation and exhibit interpersonal skills.
• Write accurately, coherently and lucidly making appropriate use of words
depending on context and present data clearly.
• Introduce one self to people and be able to speak extempore.
Syllabus for Lab Sessions
Unit 1
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar : Nouns and Pronouns; Articles; The Present Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 1
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: Introduction of Self and others
Unit 2
Multimedia Lab:
1. Grammar: Concord; Adjectives; The Past Tense
2. Vocabulary: Lesson 2
3. Listening Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Seeking and Giving Information, Giving and
Taking Instructions.
62
Unit 3
Multimedia Lab
1. Grammar --- Adverbs, Conjunctions, Prepositions; The Future Tense
2. Vocabulary Lesson 3
3. Telephoning Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Role Play/ Situational Dialogues
Unit 4
Multimedia Lab:
1. Grammar ---- Active and Passive Voice; Language Analysis
2. Vocabulary : Lesson 4
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: i) JAM/ Short Talk ii) Information
Transfer a) Interpretation of Graph
Unit 5
Multimedia Lab:
1. Introduction to Technical Writing
A. Definition of a Technical Term
B. Description of a Mechanism
C. Description of a Technical Process
2. Vocabulary : Lesson 5
Communication Skills Lab : Presentation Skills: Oral Presentation
Multimedia Lab Requirements
The English Language Lab shall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Lab for 60 students with 60 systems, one
master console, LAN facility and English language software for self- study by
learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Lab with movable chairs and audio-visual aids
with a P.A System, a T. V., a digital stereo –audio & video system and
camcorder etc.
iii) System Requirement (Hardware component):
Computer network with Lan with minimum 60 multimedia systems with the
following specifications:
i) P – IV Processor
ii) Speed – 2.8 GHZ
iii) RAM – 512 MB Minimum
iv) Hard Disk – 80 GB
v) Headphones of High quality
63
iv) Suggested Software:
The software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above should be
procured and used.
List of Software:
(cid:1) Clarity Pronunciation Power – part II
(cid:1) Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
(cid:1) DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill
Practice.
(cid:1) Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
(cid:1) TOEFL & GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO & BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE by
CLIFFS)
64
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year I Sem B.Tech (EEE, ME&AME) L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13MTH005) PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS WITH APPLICATIONS AND
COMPLEX ANALYSIS
Course prerequisites: Differentiation, integration.
Course Objectives:
• Derive the Fourier coefficients for the sine and cosine series.
• Apply Separation of Variables to solve elementary examples of linear
second order Partial Differential Equations (heat , Laplace and wave
equations).
• Understand the properties of Fourier transforms.
• Apply Cauchy theorem, Cauchy’s Integral formula, Residue theorem of
complex functions.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Solve the second order linear partial differential equations by using
separation of variables method.
• Solve problems in Fourier half range sine and cosine series.
• Evaluate simple problems of finite Fourier sine and cosine transforms,
Inverse Fourier sine and cosine transform problems and apply to heat, wave
and Laplace equations.
• Evaluate the line integrals using residue theorem, Cauchy’s theorem and
Cauchy’s integral formula.
Unit-I
Fourier Series: Fourier Series of periodic functions, Euler’s formulae, Fourier series
of even and odd functions, having arbitrary periods, half range Fourier series.
Unit-II
Fourier Transforms: Fourier transform, Sine and Cosine transforms and their
properties , Finite fourier Transforms and Parsavel’s Identity.
Unit-III
Standard Partial Differential Equations:
Method of seperation of variables, Applications :Problems of vibrating string- wave
equation, Problems of one-dimensional heat equation, Problems of steady state two
dimensional heat flow-Laplace equation.
UNIT – IV
Functions of a complex variable: Functions of a complex variable, Continuity,
Differentiability, Analyticity, Cauchy-Riemann equations in Cartesian and polar
coordinates, Harmonic and conjugate harmonic functions, Milne – Thompson method.
zc
Exponential, trigonometric, hyperbolic functions and their properties, and Logz .
65
UNIT – V
Integration of complex function, Power series and Residues:
Line integral, evaluation along a path and by indefinite integration. Cauchy’s integral
theorem, Cauchy’s integral formula. Expansion of Taylor’s series and Laurent series
(without proofs). Singular point, Isolated singular point, pole of order m , essential
singularity. Residues – Evaluation of residue by formulae, Residue theorem, Evaluation
of real integrals.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – B. S. Grewal,Khanna publishers.
2. Complex Variables & Its Applications- Churchill and Brown, (1996), International
Edition, McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Advance Engineering Mathematics - Peter O’Neil,(2000),5th Edition, Cengage
Learning.
2. Schaum’s Outline Of Complex Variables - Murray.R.Spiegel,(2011), 2nd Edition,
Tata McGraw Hill.
66
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13MED003) MECHANICS OF SOLIDS
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics and Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives:
• Understand Material properties and relationship between them.
• Understand the principles of Mechanics, Stress and Strain,
• Under Stand thoroughly the concepts of principal stresses applied to solid
structural members and mohr’s circle diagram.
• Understand the mechanical engineering problems concern to bending of
beams, torsion of shafts etc.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Formulate equations with appropriate assumptions.
• Develop model and analyze solid mechanics problems.
• Application of concepts of principal stresses in real life design issues
• Design and develop beams, shats for various applications
UNIT I
TENSION, COMPRESSION, AND SHEAR
Introduction; Normal Stress and Strain; Stress-strain diagrams; Elasticity and plasticity;
Linear elasticity and Hooke’s law; Allowable stress and allowable loads.
AXIALLY LOADED MEMBERS
Introduction; Deflections of axially loaded members; Strain energy; Dynamic loading.
THERMAL STRESSES
UNIT II
SHEAR FORCE AND BENDING MOMENT DIAGRAMS
Types of beams; Types of loading; Shear force and bending moment; Relationship
between load, shear force and bending moment; Shear force and bending moment
diagrams.
TORSION
Introduction; Torsion of circular bars; Non uniform torsion; Pure shear; Relationship
between modulus of elasticity E and G; Transmission of power by circular shafts.
UNIT III
Area moment of inertia of composite sections.
STRESSES IN BEAMS
Introduction; Normal strains in beams; Normal stresses in beams; Cross-sectional
shapes of beams-C, angular and semicircle structures; Shear stresses in rectangular
67
beams; Shear stress in webs of beams with flanges; Shear stress in circular beams
(solid and hollow sections); Concept of shear center and shear flow.
UNIT IV
ANALYSIS OF STRESS AND STRAIN
Introduction; Plane stress; Principal stresses and maximum shear stresses; Mohr’s
circle for plane stress; Hooke’s law for plane stress; Spherical and cylindrical pressure
vessels (biaxial stress; Hoop and longitudinal stresses); Combined loadings (plane
stress); Principal stresses in beams.
UNIT V
DEFLECTIONS OF BEAMS
Introduction; Differential equations of the deflection curve; Deflections by integration of
the bending moment equation; Deflections by integration of the shear-force and load
equations; Macaulay’s method; Moment area method; Method of superposition.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Mechanics of Materials (SI units) by J.M.Gere and S.P.Timoshenko; Publisher:
CBS Publishers.
REFERENCE:
1. Engineering Mechanics of Solids by Popov; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Strength of Materials Schaum’s Series.
68
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13MED004) THERMODYNAMICS
Course Prerequisites: Physics
Course Objectives:
• To understand the basic concepts of thermodynamics and Thermodynamic
Laws.
• To apply the thermodynamic laws and principles in the fields of energy
technology.
• To understand real world thermal engineering applications.
Course Outcomes: Students will be able to
• Apply thermodynamic Laws to real world problems.
• Adopt, apply and analyse thermodynamic cycles for various applications.
• Design an appropriate thermodynamic system.
UNIT I
CONCEPTS AND DEFINITIONS
Thermodynamic system and control volume; Macroscopic versus microscopic point of view;
Properties and state of a substance; Processes and cycles, Energy, Specific volume and
density, Equality of temperature; The Zeroth law of thermodynamics; Temperature scales.
WORK AND HEAT
Definition of work; Units for work; Work done at the moving boundary of a simple
compressible system; Other systems that involve work; Definition of heat; Heat transfer modes;
Comparison of heat and work.
THE FIRST LAW OF THERMODYNAMICS
The first law of thermodynamics for a control mass undergoing a cycle; The first law of
thermodynamics for a change in state of a control mass; Internal energy-a thermodynamic
property; Problem analysis and solution technique; Enthalpy; The constant-volume and
constant-pressure specific heats; The internal energy, enthalpy, and specific heat of ideal
gases; The first law as a rate equation.
FIRST LAW ANALYSIS FOR A CONTROL VOLUME
Conversion of mass and the control volume, The first law of thermodynamics for a control
volume, The steady-state process; Examples of steady-state processes.
UNIT II
THE SECOND LAW OF THERMODYNAMICS
Heat engines and refrigerators; The second law of thermodynamics; The reversible process;
Factors that render processes irreversible; The Carnot cycle; Two propositions regarding
the efficiency of a Carnot cycle; The thermodynamic temperature scale; The ideal-gas
temperature scale; Ideal versus real machines.
69
ENTROPY FOR A CONTROL MASS
The inequality of Clausius; Entropy — a property of a system; The entropy of a pure
substance; Entropy change in reversible processes; The thermodynamic property
relation; Entropy change of an ideal gas; The reversible polytropic process for an ideal gas;
Entropy change of a control mass during an irreversible process; Entropy generation;
Principle of increase of entropy; Entropy as a rate equation.
UNIT III
IRREVERSIBILITY AND AVAILABILITY
Available energy; Reversible work and irreversibility; Availability and second-law efficiency;
Exergy balance equation.
Introduction to Third law of Thermodynamics & Concept of absolute entropy.
PROPERTIES OF A PURE SUBSTANCE
The pure substance; Vapor- liquid- solid- phase equilibrium in a pure substance;
Independent properties of a pure substance; Steam Tables; Thermodynamic surfaces;
The compressibility factor; Equations of state.
UNIT IV
POWER CYCLES
Introduction to power systems; The Rankine cycle; Effect of pressure and temperature on
the Rankine cycle; Air-standard power cycles; The Brayton cycle; The air-standard
cycle for jet propulsion; Reciprocating engine power cycles; The Otto cycle; The Diesel
cycle; The Dual cycle, The Stirling cycle; The Atkinson and Miller cycles.
UNIT V
IDEAL GAS MIXTURES
General consideration and mixtures of ideal gases; ideal gas equation Daltons law of partial
pressure
THERMODYNAMIC PROPERTY RELATIONS
Mathematical relations for a homogeneous phase; The Maxwell relations;
Thermodynamic relations involving enthalpy, internal energy, and entropy; The
Clapeyron equation; Joule-Thompson coefficient; Real gas behavior and equations
of state; The generalized chart for changes of enthalpy at constant temperature;
The property relation for mixtures; Tables of thermodynamic properties of gases.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Fundamentals of Thermodynamics by C. Borgnakke and R.E. Sonntag;
Publisher Wiley India Pvt. Ltd.
2. Engineering Thermodynamics by P.K. Nag, Publisher: McGraw-Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Fundamentals of Thermodynamics by C. Borgnakke, R.E. Sonntag, and
G.J. Van Wylen; Publisher John Wiley.
2. Engineering Thermodynamics by Burgadt, Harper & Row Publication.
3. Thermodynamics — An engineering approach by Yunus Cengel and Boles;
Publisher: TMH.
70
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13MED005) METALLURGY AND MATERIAL SCIENCE
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics and Chemistry
Course Objectives:
• Understand the microstructures of different types of metal and alloys –cast iron,
steels, non ferrous metal and alloys.
• Understand the heat treatment principles-annealing, normalizing and
hardening.
• Understand the different types of tools.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Distinguish different types of metals and alloys.
• Design a heat treatment process to change the properties-hardness, ductility,
etc.
• Analyze the failure of metals and alloys.
UNIT I
METAL STRUCTURE AND CRYSTALLIZATION
Introduction - atom binding, ionic bond, covalent bond, metallic bond, and Vander
Waals forces; Crystal imperfections.
OVERVIEW OF METAL STRUCTURE AND CRYSTALLIZATION. CONSTITUTION
OF ALLOYS
Introduction; Classification of alloys or compounds; Pure metal; Intermediate alloy
phase or compound - intermetallic compounds or valency compounds, interstitial
compounds, and electron compounds; Solid solutions; Substitution solid solution -
factors that control the range of solubility in alloy system; Interstitial solid solutions.
UNIT II
PHASE DIAGRAMS
Introduction; Coordinates of phase diagrams; Experimental methods - construction of
equilibrium diagrams by thermal analysis, metallographic methods, and X-ray
diffraction;
Type-I-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid and solid states; Chemical
composition of phases; relative amounts of each phase; Equilibrium cooling of a solid
solution alloy; Diffusion; Nonequilibrium cooling; Homogenization; Properties of solid-
solution alloys; Variation of Type I; Type II-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid
state and completely insoluble in the solid state; Type III-Two metals completely
soluble in the liquid state but only partly soluble in the solid state; Properties of eutectic
alloy systems; Age hardening – solution treatment, and aging process; Type IV-The
71
congruent-melting intermediate phase; Type V-The peritectic reaction; Type VI-Two
liquids partly soluble in the liquid state: the monotectic reaction; Type VII-two metals
insoluble in the liquid and solid states; Interrelation of basic types;
Transformations in the solid state - allotropy, order-disorder transformation, the
eutectoid reaction, the peritectoid reaction, and complex diagrams;
Study of important binary phase diagrams of Cu-Ni, Al-Si, Sb-Pb, Pt-Ag, Bi-Cd, Cu-Pb,
Cu-Sn and Fe- Fe C.
3
UNIT III
THE HEAT TREATMENT OF STEEL
Introduction; Full Annealing; Spheroidizing; Stress-relief annealing; Process annealing;
Normalizing; Hardening; The isothermal transformation diagram; Transformation to
Pearlite and Bainite; Cooling curves and I-T Diagram; Transformation on continuous
cooling; Position of the I-T curves; Hardening or austenitizing temperature;
Homogeneity of austenite; Mechanism of heat removal during quenching - vapor-
blanket cooling state (stage A), vapor transport cooling stage (stage B), Liquid cooling
stage (stage C); Quenching medium; Temperature of quenching medium; Surface
condition - methods to minimize the formation of scale - copper plating, protective
atmosphere, liquid-salt pots, and cast-iron chips; Size and Mass; Hardenability; Use of
Hardenability data; Tempering; Austempering; Surface heat treatment or case
hardening; Carburizing; Heat treatment after carburizing; Cyaniding and Carbonitriding;
Nitriding; Flame hardening; Induction Hardening; Residual Stresses; Hardenable
carbon steels; Effect of cryogenic heat treatment – A brief study.
UNIT IV
ALLOY STEELS
Introduction; Purpose of alloying; Effect of alloying elements upon Ferrite; Effect of
alloying elements upon carbide; Influence of alloying elements on the iron-iron carbide
diagram; Effect of alloying elements in tampering; Classification of steels - nickel steel,
chromium steel, nickel-chromium steels, manganese steels, molybdenum steels,
tungsten steels, vanadium steels, silicon steels, stainless steels, martensitic stainless
steels, ferritic stainless steels, austenitic stainless steels, precipitation-hardening
stainless steels, maraging steels, and ausforming.
TOOL STEELS
Classification of tool steels; Selection of tool steels; Comparative properties; Non-
deforming properties; Depth of hardening; Toughness; Wear resistance; Red-
hardness; Machinability; Resistance to decarburization; Brand names; Water-
hardening tool steels (Group W); Shock resisting tool steels (Group S); Cold-work tool
steels; Hot-work tool steels (Group H); High speed tool steels; Mold Steels (Group P);
Special purpose tool steels; Heat treatment of tool steels; Overview of tool failures;
Special cutting materials – satellites, cemented carbides, and ceramic tools.
72
UNIT V
CAST IRON
Introduction; Types of cast iron; White cast iron; Malleable cast iron; Pearlitic malleable
iron; Gray cast iron; Silicon in cast iron; Sulfur in cast iron; Manganese in cast iron;
Phosphorus in cast iron; Heat treatment of grey iron, Size and distribution of graphite
flakes; Mechanical properties and applications of grey cast iron; Chilled cast iron;
Nodular cast iron; Alloy cast irons.
NON-FERROUS METALS AND ALLOYS
Introduction; Copper and its alloys - Copper, temper designation of copper and copper
alloys, and copper alloys; Aluminum and its alloys - Aluminum, Alloy designation
system, and temper designation; Titanium and Titanium alloys.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Introduction to Physical Metallurgy by Sidney H. Avner; Publisher: McGraw-Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Essentials of Materials Science and Engineering by Donald R. Askeland and
Thomson.
2. Materials Science and Engineering by William and Collister.
3. Elements of Materials Science by V.Raghavan.
4. Materials Science and Metallurgy by Kodigiri.
73
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13MED006) FLUID MECHANICS & HYDRAULIC MACHINES
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics and Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives:
• Understand the properties of fluids, principles of buoyancy, flow, force and
head calculations.
• Understand boundary layer principles applied to aerofoiles.
• Principles of operation of different types of hydraulic machinery.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Apply the knowledge of fluids and properties to solve flow, force and velocity
problems.
• Apply the knowledge of fluid flow and dynamics in solving problems in
hydraulic machines.
• Perform model analysis of hydraulic machinery and select appropriate
machines for hydro power plant.
UNIT I:
Fluid Statics: Properties of fluid – specific gravity, viscosity, surface tension, vapor
pressure and their influence on fluid motion, Pressure at a point, measurement of
pressure, Forces on immersed surfaces, Center of pressure, Buoyancy, Elements of
stability of floating bodies.
Fluid Kinematics: Classification of flows, acceleration equations, Stream line, path
line and streak lines and stream tube, continuity equation, Stream function, velocity
potential function.
UNIT II:
Fluid Dynamics: Surface and body forces – Euler’s and Bernoulli’s equation,
Venturimeter, Orifice meter, Pitot tube, Reynolds experiment –Darcy Weisbach
equation – Minor losses in pipes – pipes in series and pipes in parallel. Momentum
equation, force on pipe bend.
UNIT III:
Boundary Layer Theory: Development of boundary layer along a thin flat plate,
Laminar boundary layer and turbulent boundary layer, Laminar sub layer, boundary
layer separation, Drag and lift forces - Aerofoils, pressure and form drags.
Impact of Jets: Hydrodynamic force of jets on flat, inclined and curved vanes - jet
striking centrally and at tip, flow over radial vanes.
74
UNIT IV:
Hydraulic Turbines: Classification of turbines, design of Pelton wheel, Francis turbine
and Kaplan turbine – working proportion, work done, efficiency, draft tube- theory,
functions and efficiency. Geometric similarity, Unit and specific quantities,
characteristic curves, governing of turbines, selection of type of turbine, cavitation,
surge tank and water hammer, elements of hydropower plant.
UNIT V:
Hydraulic Pumps: Classification, centrifugal pumps – types, working, work done,
manometric head, losses and efficiency, specific speed – pumps in series and parallel
– performance characteristic curves, NPSH, Reciprocating Pump – types, Working,
Discharge, slip, indicator diagrams.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Hydraulics and Fluid Mechanics Including Hydraulics Machines: Dr. P.N.Modi, Dr.
S.M. Seth
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Fluid mechanics V. L. Streeter & E. B. Wylie.
2. Fluid mechanics, fundamentals & applications - Yunus A. Çengel, John M.
Cimbala.
3. Fluid mechanics: F. M. White
4. Introduction to Fluid Mechanics, R. W. Fox, A. T. McDonald and P.J Pritchard.
5. Fundamentals of fluid mechanics: Bruce Roy Munson, Donald F. Young,
Theodore H. Okiishi, Wade W. Huebsch Wiley Publication.
75
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED104) METALLURGY AND MATERIAL SCIENCE LAB
Course Prerequisites: Metallurgy and material science
Course Objectives:
• Understand the need of proper simplification for different materials.
• Understand the significance microstructure of different materials under
microscopic testing.
• Understand the changes in microstructures after different treatments.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Identify materials for micro structure.
• Test microstructure of any given material and predict properties.
• Prepare appropriate heat treatment for a given material by checking its
microstructure.
Metallurgy lab (Six experiments)
1. Preparation and study of the microstructure of metals like Iron, Cu and Al.
2. Preparation and study of the microstructure of mild steels, low carbon steels,
and high carbon steels.
3. Study of the microstructures of cast irons.
4. Study of the microstructures of non-ferrous alloys.
5. Study of the microstructures of heat treated steels.
6. Harden ability of steels by Jiminy end quench test.
7. To find out the hardness of various treated and untreated steels.
8. Study the microstructure of cutting tools.
9. study the micro structures of stainless steel.
10. study the different crystal structures of metals.
76
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED105) MECHANICS OF SOLIDS LAB
Course Prerequisites: Mechanics of solids, Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives:
• Understand various tests to be conducted on engineering materials.
• Understand the significance of tests on evaluating the corresponding
mechanical properties.
• Understand the importance of technical parameters used during tests.
• Understand the real time applications of the tests conducted.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Correlate the theoretical concepts by conducting the tests on different
materials.
• Plot the result of test and comment on the mechanical properties of materials.
• Decide a material and an appropriate test suitable for given application.
• Understand the significance of the tests in different fields of engineering.
Mechanics of Solids lab
1. Direct tension test
2. Bending tests:
a) Simple supported beam
b) Cantilever beam
3. Torsion test
4. Hardness test
a) Brunel hardness test
b) Rockwell hardness test
5. Test on springs
6. Compression test on a cube
7. Impact test
8. Punch shear test
9. Mechanical advantage :
(a) Simple screw jack
(b) Compound screw jack
10. Moment of Inertia of a fly wheel
11. To Study various types of Strain Gauges
77
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED106) FLUID MECHANICS AND HYDRAULIC MACHINES LAB
Course Prerequisites: Fluid Mechanics& Hydraulic Machines course
Course Objectives:
• Conduct the experiments to understand the concept, find the values and
obtain the result of experiments.
• Apply fundamental principles of fluid mechanics for the solution of practical
mechanical engineering problems of water conveyance in pipes, orifices,
mouth pieces, notches & weirs.
• Understand various pumps, water turbines, pipes and pressure measurement
devices.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Model and analyse fluid flow problems in mechanical engineering.
• Conduct experiments in pipe flows and open-channel flows and interpreting
data from model studies to prototype cases.
• Correlate the experimental results with theoretical concepts.
Any 10 experiments to be conducted from the following:
1. Verification of Bernoulli’s theorem
2. Calibration of Venturimeter/ Orifice meter.
3. Calibration of t notches.
4. Determination of friction factor for a given pipe.
5. Determination of Minor losses for the given equipment
6. Impact of jets on vanes.
7. Performance test on Pelton wheel.
8. Performance test on Francis turbine.
9. Performance test on Kaplan turbine.
10. Performance test on single stage centrifugal pump.
11. Performance test on multi stage centrifugal pump.
12. Performance test on reciprocating pump.
78
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year II Sem B.Tech (All branches except EEE) L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13MTH003) NUMERICAL ANALYSIS AND LINEAR PROGRAMMING
Course prerequisites: Elementary row transformations of matrices, differentiation
and integration.
Course objectives:
• Understand the numerical methods for non linear systems, evaluating definite
integrals and ordinary differential equations.
• Understand various methods of interpolation.
• Understand the simplex method and methods to solve the transportation
problem.
Course outcomes:
Student will be able to:
• Apply the numerical methods to find a root of algebraic and transcendental
equations.
• Apply the numerical methods to find the solutions of ordinary differential
equations.
• Use simplex method procedure to optimize a linear function.
• Solve transportation problems
UNIT I
Solutions of non-linear systems:
Introduction; Mathematical preliminaries; Solution of algebraic and transcendental
equations – the iteration method , the bisection method, the method of false position,
,Newton - Raphson method, and their order of convergence.
UNIT II
Interpolation:
Introduction; Errors in polynomial interpolation; Finite differences; Forward differences;
Backward differences; Central differences; Symbolic relations and separation of
symbols; Differences of a polynomial; Newton’s formulae for interpolation; Central
difference interpolation formulae; Gauss’s central difference formulae; Lagrange and
Hermite interpolation formulae.
UNIT III
Numerical differentiation and Integration:
Numerical differentiation based on interpolation ,Numerical integration: Trapezoidal
rule, Simpson’s 1/3 rule, and Simpson’s 3/8 rule.
Numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations:
Solution of initial value problems by Taylor’s series - Picard’s method of successive
approximations, Euler’s method, and Runge - Kutta methods; Predictor Corrector
79
methods - Adams Bashforth method- Adams Moulton method and Milne’s method
(without proofs).
UNIT IV
Linear programming
Basic concepts; problem formulation, graphical method, canonical and standard forms
of LPP simplex method, Artificial variables technique- Big-M method,
UNIT V
Transportation problems:
Balanced and Unbalanced transportation problems- North-West corner rule, Least cost
method, Vogel’s approximation method (VAM) and MODI method.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Elementary Numerical Analysis – B.S. Grewal, 3rd edition Publisher: Khanna
Publishers
2. Operations Research - Taha H.A, Publisher: Mcmillan Publishing:
REFERENCES
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher:
John Wiley and Sons.
2. Elementary Numerical Analysis – an algorithmic approach -Samuel D. Conte
and Carl De Boor (2006); 3rd edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill 3.
Operations Research – by S.D. Gupta
3. Operations Research- Kantiswaroop , P.K Gupta and Manmohan, 4th
edition, Publisher: Sultan Chand & Sons.
80
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13CMS001)BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Course Objectives:
• To explain different forms of organizing private and public sector business
enterprises and to analyze the significance of Business Economics in solving
the problems of business enterprise. Also to define and analyze the concepts
of Demand, Elasticity of Demand and Demand Forecasting Methods.
• To analyze the various types of costs and to determine the level of output at
which there is neither profit nor loss. To estimate capital requirements and to
describe various sources of mobilizing funds. Also to identify least cost
combinations of inputs produce desired quantity of output.
• To describe the features of different market structure and pricing strategies.
• To explain the basic accounting concepts and conventions. To elaborate the
importance of finance function for evaluating the economic status of a
business unit.
Course Outcomes
Students will be able to:
• Select the suitable form of business organization which meets the
requirement of selected business also perform decision – making function
effectively in an uncertain frame work by applying concepts of Managerial
Economics. Meet and manipulate the demand efficiently and plan the future
course of action.
• Apply right kind cost to reduce cost by paying attention towards the costs
which can be reduced. Take decision whether to buy or produce? Reduce the
cost of capital by selecting best source of fund mobilization and select best
investment opportunity which yields higher rate of return.
• Fix the right price which can best meets the predetermined objectives of the
business firm under different market conditions. Able to select best
combination of inputs to produce required quantity of output.
• Prepare books of accounts and know over all financial position of the
business enterprise which enables the concerned to take appropriate
measures to improve the situation. Also interpret the financial position from
difference angles and initiates the measures/ efforts in that direction.
81
UNIT - I
BUSINESS AND NEW ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
Characteristic features of business; Features and evaluation of sole proprietorship;
Partnership; Joint stock company; Public enterprises and their types; Changing
business environment in post- liberalization scenario.
UNIT - II
INTRODUCTION TO BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND DEMAND ANALYSIS
Definition; Nature and scope of managerial economics - demand analysis
determinants; Law of demand and its exceptions.
ELASTICITY OF DEMAND AND DEMAND FORECASTING
Definition; Types; Measurement and significance of elasticity of demand; Demand
forecasting; Factors governing demand forecasting; Methods of demand forecasting -
Survey methods, statistical methods, Expert opinion method, Test marketing,
Controlled experiments, and Judgmental approach to demand forecasting.
UNIT - III
COST ANALYSIS
Cost concepts - Opportunity cost, Fixed vs. Variable costs, Explicit costs vs. Implicit
costs, and Out of pocket costs vs. Imputed costs; Break-even analysis (BEA) -
determination of break-even point (simple problems), managerial significance, and
limitations of BEA.
CAPITAL AND CAPITAL BUDGETING
Capital and its significance; Types of capital; Estimation of fixed and working capital
requirements; Methods and sources of raising finance.
Nature and scope of capital budgeting; Features of capital budgeting proposals;
Methods of capital budgeting - payback method, Accounting Rate of Return (ARR), and
Net Present Value method (simple problems).
UNIT - IV
THEORY OF PRODUCTION
Production function - isoquants and isocosts, least cost combination of inputs, and laws
of returns; Internal and external economies of scale.
MARKET STRUCTURES
Types of competition; Features of perfect competition, Monopoly, and Monopolistic
competition; Price-output determination in case of perfect competition and Monopoly.
PRICING POLICIES AND METHODS
Cost plus pricing; Marginal cost pricing; Sealed bid pricing; Going rate pricing, Limit
pricing, Market skimming pricing, Penetration pricing, Two-part pricing, Block pricing,
Bundling pricing, Peak load pricing, Cross subsidization.
UNIT V
INTRODUCTION TO FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING
Double-entry book keeping; Journal; Ledger; Trial balance; Final accounts - trading
account, profit and loss account and balance sheet with simple adjustments.
82
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS THROUGH RATIOS
Computation; Analysis and interpretation of liquidity ratios - current ratios, and quick
ratio; Activity ratios - Inventory Turnover ratio, and Debtor Turnover ratio; Capital
structure ratios – Debt-Equity ratio, and Interest Coverage Ratio; Profitability ratios -
Gross profit Ratio, Net Profit Ratio, Operating Ratio, P/E ratio and EPs.
TEXT BOOKS
1) Varshney & Maheswari: Managerial Economics , Sultan Chand, 2009.
2) Aryasri: Managerial; Economics and Financial Analysis, TMH, 2009.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1) Ambriah Gupta, Financial Accou8nting for Management, Pearson Education,
New Delhi, 2010.
2) H.Craig Peterson & W. Cris Lewis, Managerial Economics PHI, 2010.
83
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13MED007) KINEMATICS OF MACHINERY
Course Prerequisites: Geometrical construction, Engineering Mechanics.
Course Objectives:
• Understand mechanisms for motion transmission.
• Understand the construction methods for drawing velocity and acceleration
diagrams.
• Design engineering applications involving in selection, sizing of mechanism to
accomplish motion objectives.
• Understand the mechanism involving cams, gears and gear trains
Course Outcomes:
Student will be able to:
• Draw velocity and acceleration diagrams of various parts of a machine along
with the transmission Mechanisms.
• Design components of machine parts, structures, gears, cams, belts,
pulleys, etc. for kinematic analysis.
• Understand the straight line motion mechanisms, Hooke’s joint and steering
mechanisms.
• Design the mechanisms after analysis for safety and efficient working.
UNIT-I
MECHANISMS AND MACHINES:
Elements or links-classification-rigid link, flexible and fluid link-types of kinematic pairs-
sliding pairs, turning, rolling, screw and spherical pairs-lower and higher pairs-closed
and open pairs-constrained motion-completely, partially or successfully constrained
and incompletely constrained.
Mechanisms, Machines -classification of machines- kinematic chain-inversion of
mechanism-inversions of quadric cycle chain, single and double slider crank chains,
Intermittent motion mechanisms.
UNIT-II
KINEMATICS:
Velocity and acceleration-motion of link in machine-Construction of velocity and
acceleration diagrams-graphical method- Application of relative velocity method- four
bar chain.
ANALYSIS OF MECHANISMS:
Analysis of slider crank chain for displacement, velocity and acceleration of slider-
acceleration diagram for a given mechanism, Klein’s construction, Coriolis
acceleration, determination of Coriolis component of acceleration.
84
PLANE MOTION OF BODY:
Instantaneous center of rotation, centroids and axodes - relative motion between two
bodies-Three centers in line theorem-Graphical determination of instantaneous
centre,analysis of simple mechanisms and determination of linear velocity and angular
velocity of links.
UNIT-III
MECHANISMS AND HOOKE’S JOINT:
Condition for correct steering –Davis steering gear, Ackerman’s steering gear-velocity -
ratio - Single and double Hooke’s Joint- Universal coupling-applications- problems.
STRAIGHT LINE MOTION MECHANISMS:
Exact and approximate-copied and generated types - Peaucellier , Hart and Scott
Russell- Grasshopper- Watt-Tchebicheff and Robert mechanism and straight line
motion, Pantograph.
UNIT-IV
CAMS:
Definition of cam and followers-their uses-types of followers and cams-terminology-
types of follower motion-uniform velocity-simple harmonic motion and uniform
acceleration, maximum velocity and acceleration during outward and return strokes in
the above three cases. Overview of polynomial motions, Analysis of motion of
followers: roller follower- circular cam with straight, concave and convex flanks.
UNIT-V
HIGHER PAIRS:
Friction wheels and toothed gears-types-law of gearing, condition for constant velocity
ratio for transmission of motion, forms of teeth- Cycloidal and Involute profiles. Velocity
of sliding-phenomena of interference-methods of interference, condition for minimum
number of teeth to avoid interference, expression for arc of contact and path of contact-
introduction to helical, bevel and worm gearing.………………........... ...
GEAR TRAINS:
Introduction-train value-types-simple, compound and reverted wheel trains – epicyclic
gear train, methods of finding train value or velocity ratio-selection of gear box
differential gear for an automobile.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Theory of Machines by Thomas Bevan.
2. Theory of Machines by P. L. Ballaney.
3. Theory of Machines by Ratan.
REFERENCES:
1. Theory of machines by R. S. Khurmi & J. K. Gupta.
2. Theory of machines by R. K. Bansal.
3. Theory of machines by Sadhu Singh.
4. Theory of machines by Shigley.
5. Mechanism and Machine Theory by J. S. Rao and R. V. Dukkipati.
85
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13MED008) THERMAL ENGINEERING
Course Prerequisite: Mathematics, Physics.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the air-standard and actual cycles in I.C.Engines.
• Understand the working principle, method of carburetion, fuel injection and
ignition systems.
• Understand working principle of reciprocating compressors and refrigeration
and air conditioning systems.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Design of automobile refrigeration and Air conditioning systems.
• Conduct experiments in evaluating the performance parameters and
interpreting data from model studies to prototype cases, as well as
documenting them in engineering reports.
• Understand or become aware of disasters caused by an incorrect analysis in
automobile, refrigeration and air-conditioning systems.
UNIT – I
ACTUAL CYCLES AND THEIR ANALYSIS
Introduction, Comparison of Air Standard and Actual Cycles, Time Loss Factor,
Heat Loss Factor, Exhaust blow down, Loss due to Gas exchange process,
Volumetric Efficiency, Loss due to Rubbing Friction, Actual and Fuel-Air Cycles of I.C.
Engines.
UNIT – II
I. C. ENGINES
Classification, Working principles, Valve and Port Timing Diagrams, Air Standard, air-
fuel and actual cycles, Engine systems; Fuel Systems, Simple Carburetor, Solex
carburetor, Fuel Injection Systems; Ignition systems, Battery ignition, Magneto ignition,
Modern ignition systems; Transistorized coil ignition (TCI) system, Capacitive
Discharge Ignition (CDI) System, Cooling and Lubrication systems.
UNIT – III
COMBUSTION IN S. I. ENGINES
Homogeneous mixture, Heterogeneous mixture, Stages of combustion, Flame front
propagation, Factors influencing the flame speed, Rate of pressure rise, Abnormal
combustion, Phenomenon of Knock, Types of Combustion chambers, Fuel
requirements and fuel rating
86
COMBUSTION IN C. I. ENGINES
Combustion process, stages of combustion, Delay period and its importance, Factors
affecting Delay period, Diesel Knock, Comparison of Knock in C.I and S.I engine,
Combustion chambers in C.I. Engine, Fuel requirements and fuel rating.
UNIT – IV
TESTING AND PERFORMANCE
Measurement and Testing; Friction power, Indicated power, Brake power, Fuel
consumption, Air consumption, Emissions Performance parameters; Engine power,
Engine efficiencies, Engine performance characteristics, Heat Balance.
RECIPROCATING AIR COMPRESSORS
Classification; Reciprocating Compressor: Principle of operation, Work required,
Isothermal efficiency, Volumetric efficiency and effect of clearance, Multi stage
compression with inter cooling, Saving of work, Minimum work condition for stage
compression.
UNIT –V
INTRODUCTION TO REFRIGERATION CYCLE AND PSYCHROMETRIC
PROPERTIES
Refrigeration cycles - Vapor compression refrigeration cycle, Bell Colman refrigeration
cycle, Vapour Absorption Refrigeration System
Psychrometric properties - Dry bulb temperature, Wet bulb temperature, Dew point
temperature, Specific humidity, Relative humidity, Degree of saturation, Specific
enthalpy, Psychrometric chart, Psychrometric processes.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. I. C. Engines by V. Ganesan; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Thermal Engineering by Mahesh M. Rathore; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Refrigeration & Air Conditioning by C.P. Arora; Tata McGraw Hill.
2. I.C. Engines by Heywood; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
3. Thermal Engineering by Rajput; Publisher: Lakshmi Publication.
87
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME, AME – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13EEE079) BASIC ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
Course Objectives:
• To get awareness of using mechanical energy for electrical energy
generation.
• To understand the basic operation of circuits used for automobile control.
• To know about working of different electrical machines used for propulsion of
vehicles.
• To know the basic operation of diode and transistor.
Course Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the student will be able to
• Analyze the electro-mechanical energy conversion using electrical machines.
• Analyze the different electrical machines used for propulsion of vehicles.
• Analyze different control circuits which involve different circuits’ parameters.
• Analyze the operation of transistor and CRT
UNIT - I
ELECTRICAL CIRCUITS: Circuit Concept R-L-C parameters-Ohm’s law -
Kirchhoff’s laws - Series - Parallel resistive networks - Star/delta transformations.
AC Circuits : Average value, rms value, form factor of sinusoidal function, R-L, R-C
and R-L-C circuits- Concept of Power factor, Real and reactive powers simple
problems.
UNIT - II
DC MACHINES: Principle of operation of DC Generator – emf equation - types –
Principle of operation of DC Motor - DC motor types –torque equation – Three point
starter -Swinburne’s test, applications.
TRANSFORMERS: Principle of operation of single phase transformer–emf equation–
losses–OC and SC tests - efficiency and regulation
UNIT - III
AC MACHINES: Principle of operation of alternator – regulation by synchronous
impedance method –Principle of operation of induction motor – slip – torque
characteristics – applications.
INSTRUMENTS: Principle and construction of permanent magnet moving coil and
moving iron instruments.
88
UNIT - IV
DIODE AND IT’S CHARACTERISTICS: P-n junction diode, symbol, V-I
Characteristics, Diode Applications: Rectifiers – Half wave Full wave and Bridge
rectifiers (simple Problems)
UNIT - V
TRANSISTORS: PNP and NPN Junction transistor, Transistor as an amplifier, SCR
characteristics and applications.
CATHODE RAY OSCILLOSCOPE: Principles of CRT (Cathode Ray Tube), Deflection,
Sensitivity, Electrostatic and Magnetic deflection, Applications of CRO - Voltage,
Current and frequency measurements.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Electronic Devices and Circuits David A Bell Oxford University Press.
2. Introduction to Electrical Engineering – M.S Naidu and S. Kamakshaiah, TMH
Publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Principles of Electrical and Electronics Engineering by V.K.Mehta, S.Chand &
Co.
2. Basic Electrical Engineering by Kothari and Nagarath, TMH Publications, 2nd
edition.
89
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 6 3
(13MED107) MACHINE DRAWING
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Graphics
Course Objectives:
• Understand the Principles of Machine Drawing Conventions.
• Understand the Machine Elements like Screw Threads, Nuts, Bolts, Keys,
and Shafts & Bearings.
• Understand the different views of Part Drawings and based on that, draw
the Assembled Parts of Engine & Machine parts.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Apply the Knowledge of Machine Drawing Conventions.
• Use the Autocad Software and draw the Machine Elements like Screw
Threads, Nuts, Bolts, Keys, Shafts & Bearings.
• Design all the parts & assemble them in AutoCad with section views.
Machine drawing conventions
Need for drawing conventions – Introduction to IS conventions
a) Conventional representation of materials, common machine elements and
parts such as screws, nuts, bolts, keys, gears, webs and ribs.
b) Types of sections – selection of section planes and drawing of sections and
auxiliary sectional views. Parts not usually sectioned.
c) Methods of dimensioning, general rules for sizes, and placement of
dimensions for holes, centers, and curved and tapered features.
d) Title boxes, their size, location, and other details - common abbreviations and
their liberal usage.
e) Types of drawings – working drawings for machine parts.
I. Drawing of machine elements and simple parts
Selection of orthogonal views and additional views for the following machine elements
and parts with every drawing proportion.
a) Popular forms of screw threads, bolts, nuts, stud bolts.
b) Keys, cottered joints, and knuckle joint.
c) Riveted joints for plates.
d) Shaft coupling and spigot joint.
e) Journal, pivot, and collar bearings.
90
II. Assembly drawings
Assembly drawings for the following, using conventions and easy drawing proportions:
a) Engine parts – stuffing boxes, eccentrics, I.C. engine connecting rod and
piston assembly.
b) Other parts - screws jacks, machine vices, and tailstock.
NOTE
1. To adopt first angle of projection.
2. The student should be able to provide working drawings of actual parts.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Machine Drawing by K. L. Narayana, P. Kannaiah and K. Venkata Reddy;
Publisher: New Age/ Publishers.
REFERENCES:
1. Machine Drawing by Siddheswar, Kannaiah and Sastry.
2. Machine Drawing by N. D. Bhatt.
91
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED108) THERMAL ENGINEERING LAB
Course Prerequisites: Thermodynamics, Thermal Engineering
Course Objectives:
• Understand how thermodynamic cycles work
• To understand working principal of thermal devices.
• Conduct performance test under various conditions and draw performance
curve.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Draw actual cycles and compare it with theoretical cycles to understand losses.
• Will be able to understand the mechanical and thermodynamic limitations of
obtaining ideal performance.
• Will be able to analyze any given engine and evaluate its performance.
Syllabus:
Any 10 experiments to be conducted from the following:
1. I.C. Engines Valve / Port Timing Diagrams.
2. I.C. Engines Performance Test (4 -Stroke Diesel Engines).
3. I.C. Engines Performance Test on 2-Stroke Petrol Engines.
4. Evaluation of Engine friction by conducting Morse test on 4-Stroke Multi
cylinder Petrol.
5. I.C. Engines Heat Balance.
6. I.C.Engines Air/Fuel Ratio and Volumetric Efficiency.
7. Performance Test on Reciprocating Air – Compressor Unit
8. Study of Boilers.
9. Dis-assembly / Assembly of Engines.
10. Determination of optimum cooling water temperature on I.C.Engine.
11. Performance test on Air conditioning Test Rig.
12. Performance test on Refrigeration test rig.
92
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
L T/P/D C
II Year B.Tech ME, AME – I I Sem
0 3 2
(13EEE179) BASIC ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
• Understand the performance of D.C Shunt Machine.
• Understand the performance of AC machines.
• Understand the performance and efficiency / regulation of electrical machines
are determined experimentally.
• Understand the operation of solid state devices like diode, transistor and
SCR.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the student will be able to
• Find the application of electrical machines with the experimental
determination of the performance of the machines.
• Find the application of Induction motor with the experimental determination of
the performance of the machines.
• Find the application of single phase transformer.
• Identify the characteristics of all solid state devices.
Section A: Electrical Engineering:
The following experiments are required to be conducted as compulsory experiments:
1. Swinburne’s test on D.C. Shunt machine. (Predetermination of efficiency of a
given D.C. Shunt machine working as motor and generator)
2. Brake test on D.C Shunt Motor
3. OC and SC tests on single phase transformer(Predetermination of efficiency
and regulation at given power factors)
4. Brake test on 3-phase Induction motor (Determination of performance
characteristics)
5. Regulation of alternator by Synchronous impedance method
Section B: Electronics Engineering:
The following experiments are required to be conducted as compulsory experiments:
1. P-n Diode Characteristics
2. Transistor CE Characteristics (Input and Output)
3. Full wave Rectifier with and without filters
4. CE Amplifiers
5. SCR Characteristics
93
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(13MED009) PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY
Course Prerequisites: Material science, Manufacturing Science.
Course Objectives:
• Understand metal joining techniques.
• Understand the principles involved in ferrous and non-ferrous casting
design
• Understand cold and hot working of metals and processing of non-metals like
plastics.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Design castings taking into considerations of different moulds and their
preparations.
• Design different welded joints applying it to different welding processes and
able to conduct different types of tests on weld mates.
• Produce various work pieces using cold and hot working of a metal.
UNIT – I
CASTING:
Steps involved in making a casting; Advantage of casting and its applications; Pattern
and core making; Types of patterns – Materials used for patterns; Pattern allowances
and their construction; Principles of Gating, Gating ratio and design of gating systems.
Solidification of casting; Concept; Solidification of pure metal and alloys; Risers; Types;
Function and design; Casting design considerations; Quality testing and inspection of
castings; Special casting processes; Centrifugal, Die, Investment casting; Melting
furnaces.
UNIT – II
WELDING:
Classification of welding process types of welds and welded joints and their
characteristics, design of welded joints, Gas welding, ARC welding, Forge welding,
resistance welding, Thermit welding and Plasma welding
Inert Gas welding, TIG & MIG, welding, Friction stir welding, Induction welding,
Explosive welding, Laser welding, Soldering & Brazing. Heat affected zones in welding;
welding defects – causes and remedies – destructive and nondestructive testing of
welds.
94
UNIT –III
MECHANICAL WORKING -1:
Hot working; Cold working; Strain hardening; Recovery; Recrystallisation and grain
growth; Comparison of properties of cold and hot worked parts
ROLLING:
Rolling fundamentals; Theory of rolling; Types of Rolling mills and products; Forces in
rolling and power requirements.
EXTRUSION:
Basic extrusion process and its characteristics; Hot extrusion and Cold extrusion;
Forward extrusion and backward extrusion – Impact extrusion; Hydrostatic extrusion;
Extrusion defects.
FORGING PROCESSES:
Principles of Forging; Tools and dies; Types of Forging; Smith forging; Drop Forging;
Roll Forging; Forging hammers; Rotary Forging; Forging defects.
UNIT – IV
MECHANICAL WORKING -2:
Stamping, forming and other cold working processes : Blanking and piercing; Bending
and forming; Drawing and its types; Wire drawing and Tube drawing; Coining; Hot and
cold spinning; Types of presses and press tools; Forces and power requirement in the
above operations.
UNIT – V
PLASTIC MATERIALS AND PROCESSES:
Types of plastics; Compression moulding; Injection moulding; Blow moulding; Film and
Sheet forming; Thermoforming.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Manufacturing Technology by P.N. Rao
REFERENCES:
1. Production Technology by R.K. Jain
2. Manufacturing Engineering and Technology by Kalpak Jian S
3. Process and Materials of Manufacturing by Lindberg/PE
4. Principles of Metal Castings by Rosenthal.
5. Welding Process by Parmar
6. Production Technology by Sharma P C
95
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13MED010) DYNAMICS OF MACHINERY
Course Prerequisites: Engineering mechanics, Kinematics of machinery.
Course Objectives:
• Study the construction methods like Klien’s, velocity polygons, acceleration
diagrams etc for drawing various mechanisms.
• Identify the significance of the principles of equilibrium, super position, virtual
work& D’Alembert’s principle.
• Familiarize with the methods of static &dynamic stability.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Show the engineering applications involving the selection and design of
machine components with respect to the forces developed.
• Check whether the proposed design is satisfactory.
• Analyze and design flywheels, governors and gyroscopes to withstand
forces.
UNIT-I
PRECESSION:
Gyroscopes, effect of precessional motion on the stability of moving vehicles such as
motor car, motor cycle, aeroplanes and ships.
STATIC AND DYNAMIC FORCE ANALYSIS OF PLANAR MECHANISMS:
(NEGLECTING FRICTION)
Introduction-free body diagrams-conditions of equilibrium-two and three force
members-Inertia forces and D’Alembert’s principle-planar rotation about a fixed centre.
SYNTHESIS OF LINKAGES:
Three position synthesis- four position synthesis- precision positions-structural error-
Chebyshev’s spacing, Freudenstein’s Equation, problems.
UNIT-II
CLUTCHES:
Friction clutches, Single disc or plate clutch, multiple disc clutch, cone clutch&
centrifugal clutch.
BRAKES AND DYNAMOMETERS:
Simple block brakes, internal expanding brake, band brake of vehicle.
Dynamometers - absorption and transmission types- general description and method of
operation.
96
UNIT-III
TURNING MOMENT DIAGRAMS AND FLYWHEELS:
TURNING MOMENT:
Inertia torque-angular velocity and acceleration of connecting rod, crank effort and
torque diagrams- Fluctuation of energy-design of flywheels.
GOVERNORS:
Watt, Porter and Proell governors, Spring loaded governors- Hartnell and Hartung with
auxiliary springs, Sensitiveness, isochronism and hunting.
UNIT-IV
BALANCING:
Balancing of rotating masses – single and multiple-single and different planes-
balancing of reciprocating masses-primary and secondary balancing- analytical and
graphical methods.
UNBALANCED FORCES AND COUPLES:
Balancing of V, multi cylinder inline and radial engines for primary, secondary
balancing and locomotive balancing.
UNIT-V
VIBRATIONS:
Free vibration of mass attached to a vertical spring - simple problems on forced
damped vibration.Vibration isolation and transmissibility - Whirling of shafts, critical
speeds, torsional vibrations, two and three rotor systems.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Theory of Machines by Thomas Bevan; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Theory of Machines by S. S. Ratan; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Theory of Machines and Mechanisms by P. L. Ballaney; Publisher: Khanna.
2. Mechanism and Machine Theory by J. S. Rao and R. V. Dukkipati; Publisher: New
Age.
3. Kinematics and Dynamics of Machinery by R. L. Norton; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
4. Theory of Machines and Mechanisms by Uicker, Pennock & Shigley; Publisher:
Oxford.
97
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13MED011) MECHANICAL ENGINEERING DESIGN - I
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics, Engineering Mechanics, Solid Mechanics,
Metallurgy & Materials Science, kinematics of Machinery.
Course Objectives:
• Understand different properties of Materials and relationship between them.
• Understand the principles of stress, strain and Principal stresses as
applied to Solid bodies or structural and machine elements under loads.
• Understand to form mathematical equation and analyze problems by
making appropriate assumptions and learn systematic engineering method
to solve practical Design engineering problems.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Model and analyze design problems in Mechanical and structural
engineering.
• Apply knowledge of standard elements and their technical information
available in the data bases and in designing machine elements.
• Predict modes of failure in materials or machine elements caused by
different types of loads under operation.
UNIT I
ENGINEERING MATERIALS AND DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS
The Design Phase / Methodology, and identification of need, Evaluation and
Presentation, Reliability and Product liability. Mechanical Properties of Engineering
Materials, overall design considerations, Factor safety, Preferred Numbers. Standard
and codes, design data handbook. Load, stress and critical sections in machine parts.
Static strength, plastic deformation, temperature properties, Definition of stress, simple
stress, combined stress, complex stress. Members subjected to axial, bending, torsion
and shear loading, impact stresses, theories of static failure.
UNIT II
DESIGN AGAINST FLUCTUATING LOAD
Stress concentration, stress concentration factors, Reduction of stress concentration,
fluctuating stresses. Fatigue strength, Endurance Limit, fatigue test, S-N diagrams for
different structural materials. Low cycle and high cycle fatigue, Notch sensitivity,
Design for finite and infinite life. Gerber theory Soderberg and Goodman lines for
fatigue strength, modified Goodman theory.
98
UNIT III
DESIGN OF FASTERNERS
Temporary Fasteners (Bolted and Screwed Fasteners)
Bolted joints, bolted joint under initial loading, eccentrically loaded Bolted Joints under
different static load conditions.
Permanent Fasteners (Riveted and Welded Fasteners)
Riveted Joints, eccentrically loaded Riveted Joints, Design of Boiler Riveted joints, and
Welding symbols, butt and fillet welds, stress in the welded joints carries tension
bending and shear loading, Design of various types of Welding joints and eccentrically
loaded welded joints under different static load conditions.
UNIT IV
DESIGN OF FLEXIBLE MECHANICAL ELEMENTS
Belt Drives:
Introduction, classification of belts, belt materials, design of flat (rectangular) belts, ratio
of belt tensions, V-Belts, power transmitted through V-Belt, design of V-Belts.
Springs:
Classification of springs, spring material, Design of helical, leaf, disc and tensional
springs under constant loads and varying loads.
UNIT V
DESIGN OF SHAFTS AND KEYS
Transmission shafts, Design of solid and hollow shafts based on strength, rigidity.
Flexible shafts, shaft and axles – key and classification of keys, stresses in the keys,
design considerations, effect of key way on the shaft strength.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Design of Machine Elements by Bhandari; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Mechanical Engineering Design by Shigley J. E and Mischke C. R; Publisher: Tata
McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering design by George E Dieter; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Machine Design - An Integrated Approach by Robert L.Norton; Publisher: Addison
Wesley.
3. Fundamentals of Machine Component Design by Juvinall R. C and Marshek K. M;
Publisher: John Wiley and Sons.
99
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13MED012) HEAT AND MASS TRANSFER
Course Prerequisites: Basic integral and differential calculus, thermodynamics
Course Objectives:
• To understand different modes of heat transfer in physical environment under
various conditions.
• To develop the equations governing the phenomena of heat transfer.
• To apply these equations to analyze problems by making good
assumptions and solve practical heat transfer problems.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Explain any physical heat transfer phenomena into simpler phenomena.
• Apply fundamental knowledge of mathematics to modeling and analysis of
simple heat and mass transfer phenomena with proper initial and boundary
conditions.
• Use the devices that transfer heat and measure their efficiency.
UNIT-I
INTRODUCTION:
Modes and mechanisms of heat transfer - Basic laws of heat transfer - Simple general
discussion about applications of heat transfer. Conduction Heat Transfer: Fourier heat
conduction equation - General heat conduction equation in Cartesian, Cylindrical and
Spherical coordinates - simplification and forms of the field equation steady, unsteady
and periodic heat transfer - Initial and boundary conditions.
UNIT-II
ONE DIMENSIONAL STEADY STATE CONDUCTION HEAT TRANSFER:
Homogeneous slabs, hollow cylinders and sphere - overall heat transfer coefficient -
electrical analogy - Critical radius of insulation - variable Thermal conductivity -
systems with heat sources or Heat generation - extended surfaces and fins. One
Dimensional Transient Conduction Heat Transfer: Systems with negligible internal
resistance - chart solutions of transient conduction systems.
UNIT-III
CONVECTIVE HEAT TRANSFER:
Classification of systems based on causation of flow, condition of flow, configuration of
flow and medium of flow - Dimensional analysis as a tool for experimental investigation
- Concepts about hydrodynamic and thermal boundary layers - Buckingham Pi-
Theorem and method, application for developing Semi - empirical non-dimensional
100
correlation for convection heat transfer - Significance of non -dimensional numbers -
use of empirical correlations for convective heat transfer- Forced Convection: Flat
plates and horizontal pipes. Free Convection: Vertical plates and pipes.
UNIT-IV
HEAT TRANSFER WITH PHASE CHANGE:
Heat transfer with boiling - pool boiling and film boiling - boiling curve for pool boiling -
simple correlations for pool boiling - Condensation plates heat transfer: film wise and
drop wise condensation - film condensation on vertical and horizontal cylinders using
empirical correlations.
RADIATION HEAT TRANSFER:
Emission characteristics and laws of black-body radiation - incident radiation - total and
monochromatic quantities -laws of Planck, Wien, Kirchoff, Lambert, Stefan and
Boltzmann - heat exchange between two black bodies -concepts of shape factor -
emissivity - heat exchange between grey bodies - radiation shields - electrical analogy
for radiation net works.
UNIT V
HEAT EXCHANGERS:
Classification of heat exchangers - overall and fouling resistance - problems using
LMTD and NTU methods.
INTRODUCTION TO MASS TRANSFER:
Analogy between heat, mass and momentum transfer - classification: Diffusion and
convective mass transfer processes - Examples - Fick's Law of diffusion simple
problems for steady state molecular diffusion - Convection mass transfer coefficient -
non-dimensional numbers of mass transfer analogous to convection heat transfer.
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Fundamentals of Engineering Heat and Mass Transfer by R.C. Sachdeva;
Publisher: New Age International.
2. Heat and Mass Transfer Data book by C.P. Kothandaraman; Publisher: New Age.
REFERENCES:
1. Heat Transfer by OZSIK.
2. Heat Transfer by HOLMAN.
3. Heat Transfer by Sukhatme; Publisher: University Press.
4. Heat and Mass Transfer by D. S. Kumar.
5. Fundamentals of Heat & Mass Transfer by Incopera & Dewitt.
101
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13MED013) TURBO MACHINERY
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Engineering Basics, Thermal Engineering
Basics
Course Objectives:
• Understand various energy conversations that take place in a turbo
machines.
• Understand the principles of turbo machines.
• Understand governing mathematical equations to perform theoretical
calculations.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Model and analyze problems in turbo machines.
• Design a simple energy producing or effort reducing device using basic
thermodynamics concepts.
• Suggest and improvements to minimize losses.
UNIT I
STEAM GENERATORS:
Introduction, Classification of Boilers , Working Principles of Fire Tube and Water Tube
Boilers, Low Pressure boilers, High Pressure Boilers – Babcock and Wilcox , Lamont
Boiler, Boiler draught and performance of boilers, Equivalent evaporation.
STEAM CONDENSORS:
Introduction, purpose and types of condensers. Efficiency of condenser, air pumps.
UNIT II
STEAM NOZZLES:
Functions of nozzle, applications, types, flow through nozzles, Thermodynamic
analysis, assumptions, velocity at nozzle exit, Ideal and actual expansion in nozzle,
velocity co-efficient, condition for maximum discharge, nozzle efficiency, Critical
pressure ratio, Supersaturated flow and its effects, degree of super saturation, degree
of under cooling, wilson line.
UNIT III
STEAM TURBINES:
Impulse turbine - Mechanical details, velocity diagram, effect of friction, power
developed, axial thrust, diagram efficiency, Condition for maximum efficiency, Methods
to reduce rotor speed - velocity compounding, pressure compounding, combined
velocity and pressure compounding, velocity and pressure variation along the flow.
102
Reaction Turbine - Mechanical details, principle of operation, Thermodynamic
analysis of a stage, Degree of reaction, velocity diagram, parson’s reaction turbine,
condition for maximum efficiency.
UNIT IV
ROTARY COMPRESSORS:
Working Principles of - Roots blower, vane blower and screw compressor.
CENTRIFUGAL COMPRESSORS:
Mechanical details and principle of operation, velocity and pressure variation. Energy
transfer. Impeller blade shape-losses, slip factor, power input factor, pressure co-
efficient and adiabatic co-efficient, velocity diagrams.
AXIAL FLOW COMPRESSORS:
Mechanical details and principle of operation, velocity triangles and energy transfer per
stage, degree of reaction, work done factor, Isentropic efficiency, pressure rise
calculations, Polytrophic efficiency.
UNIT V
GAS TURBINES:
Classification of Gas Turbines ,Ideal cycle, essential components ,parameters of
performance, actual cycle , regeneration ,inter cooling and reheating, closed and semi
closed cycles, merits and demerits, combustion chambers and turbines for Gas
Turbine plants.
JET PROPULSION:
Principle of operation, Classification of Jet propulsion engines, working principles with
schematic diagram and representation on T-s diagram, Thrust, Thrust power and
propulsion efficiency. Needs and demands met by Turbo Jet Engines, Schematic
diagram, Thermodynamic cycle, performance evaluation thrust augmentation methods.
ROCKETS:
Application - working principle, Classification, Propellant type, Thrust, Propulsive
efficiency – Specific impulse, solid and liquid propellant Rocket Engines.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Thermal Engineering by Mahesh M. Rathore; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Gas Turbines by V. Ganesan; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Thermal Engineering by R.K Rajput; Publisher: Lakshmi Publications.
3. Thermal Engineering by P. L. Ballaney; Publisher: Khanna.
4. Fundamentals of Turbo Machinery by B. K. Venkanna; Publisher: Prentice Hall
International.
103
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13MED014) OPERATIONS RESEARCH
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Industrial Engineering
Course Objectives:
• To understand linear programming in practical and their practical use.
• Understanding the Theory of games, Replacement, Inventory and Queuing
models and their solution methodology for solving problems.
• To understand the Dynamic programming and simulation models.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Formulate and solve Assignment, Transportation, Sequencing, Replacement,
Inventory and Queuing problems.
• Formulate and solve Problems using Linear Programming.
• Apply dynamic programming problem solving and simulation models.
UNIT-I
INTRODUCTION:
Origin, Development-Definition-Characteristics and Phases-Types of OR models-
applications, limitations.
ALLOCATION:
Linear Programming Problem Formulation- Graphical solution-Simplex method-Artificial
variables technique-Two phase method, Big-M Method-Duality Principle.
UNIT-II
TRANSPORTATION PROBLEM:
Formulation-Optimal solution-unbalanced transportation problem-Degeneracy.
Assignment problem-Formulation-Optimal solution-Variations of Assignment Problem-
Travelling Salesman Problem.
Sequencing: Introduction-Flow Shop sequencing-n jobs through two machines-n jobs
through three machines-Job shop sequencing-two jobs through m machines.
UNIT-III
REPLACEMENT:
Introduction-Replacement of items that deteriorate with time-when money value is not
counted and counted-Replacement of items that fail completely, group replacement.
THEORY OF GAMES:
Introduction-Minimax (maximin) - criterion and optimal strategy-Solution of games with
saddle points-Rectangular games without saddle points-principles of dominance-M X
2and 2 X n games-graphical method.
104
UNIT-IV
WAITING LINES:
Introduction-Single channel-Poisson arrivals-exponential service times-with infinite
population and finite population models-Multichannel-Poisson arrivals-exponential
service times with infinite population single channel Poisson arrivals.
INVENTORY:
Introduction-Single item-Deterministic models-Purchase inventory models with one
price break and multiple price breaks-shortages not allowed-Stochastic models-
demand may be discrete variable or continuous variable-Instantaneous production,
Instantaneous demand and continuous demand and no set up cost-single period
model.
UNIT-V
DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING:
Introduction-Terminology-Bellman’s Principle of optimality- Applications of dynamic
programming- shortest path problem-linear programming problem.
SIMULATION:
Definition-Types of simulation models-phases of simulation-applications of simulation-
Inventory and Queuing problems-Advantages and Disadvantages-Brief Introduction of
Simulation Languages.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Operations Research by J.K.Sharma; Publisher: Mac Milan.
2. Operations Research by R. Pannerselvam; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
REFERENCES:
1. Operations Research by A. M. Natarajan, P.Balasubramani, A.Tamilarasi;
Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Operations Research: Methods and Problems by Maurice Saseini, Arthur Yaspan
and Lawrence Friedman.
3. Introduction to OR by Taha; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
4. Operations Research by Wagner; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
5. Operations Research by S.D.Sharma-Kedarnath.
6. O.R Wayne L. Winston by Thomson; Publisher: Brooks/Cole.
7. Introduction to O.R by Hiller and Liebermann; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
105
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED109) PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY LAB
Course Prerequisites: Production Technology.
Course Objectives:
• Understand and evaluate casting techniques and sand properties.
• Understand different welding processes and their use.
• Understand different press working operations and plastic moulding.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Produce sand moulds for a casting.
• Weld different materials using appropriate process.
• Make objects by press operations and mould plastic components.
Minimum 12 exercises to be performed from the following:
METAL CASTING:
1. Pattern Design and making - for one casting drawing.
2. Sand properties testing - Exercise -for strengths, and permeability – 1
3. Moulding Melting and Casting - 1 Exercise
I. WELDING:
1. Arc Welding Lap and Butt Joint - 2 Exercises
2. Spot Welding - 1 Exercise
3. TIG Welding - 1 Exercise
4. MIG Welding - 1 Exercise
5. Plasma welding and Brazing - 2 Exercises
II. MECHANICAL PRESS WORKING:
1. Blanking and Piercing operation and study of simple, compound and
progressive press tool.
2. Hydraulic Press: Deep drawing and extrusion operation.
3. Bending and other operations
III. PROCESSING OF PLASTICS:
1. Injection Moulding
2. Blow Moulding
106
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED110) HEAT AND MASS TRANSFER LAB
Course Prerequisites: Heat and mass transfer, thermodynamics.
Course Objectives:
• Understand various modes of heat transfer experimentally.
• Understand calculations of heat transfer co-efficient in difference systems.
• Understand factors affecting the heat transfer rate.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Find out critical thickness of insulation to minimize heat lost.
• Build a simple heat exchanger which gives better cooling.
• Come up with innovative idea to build compact heat transfer device.
Syllabus:
Any 10 experiments to be conducted from the following:
1. Determination of Thermal Conductivity of given Metal Rod.
2. Determination of Stefan Boltzmann Constant.
3. Critical Heat Flux Apparatus.
4. Determination of Overall Heat Transfer coefficient of Composite Wall.
5. Heat Transfer through Lagged Pipe.
6. Determination of Heat Transfer coefficient in Forced Convection Apparatus.
7. Determination of Heat Transfer coefficient in Natural Convection Apparatus.
8. Thermal Conductivity of Insulating Powder.
9. Parallel and Counter Flow Heat Exchanger.
10. Emissivity measurement.
11. Study of two phase flow.
12. Heat Transfer in pin-fin.
13. Heat Transfer in Drop and Film Wise Condensation.
107
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13MED015) MACHINE TOOLS
Course Prerequisites: Production Technology, Engineering Materials.
Course Objectives:
• Understand Material removal processes, classification of machine tools and
types of cutting tools used for performing different operations.
• Understand the principle of working of lathe machine, special purpose lathe &
construction, working of reciprocating machine tools, milling operations,
grinding & finishing operations.
• Understanding the Need for going to Non-Traditional Machining process &
necessity of jigs & fixtures.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Apply the knowledge of various cutting tools used for different machining
process in manufacturing.
• Prepare a process sheet for a component to manufacturing.
• Analyze a component and prepare sequence of operations to be performed
and the machine tool to be employed.
UNIT – I
INTRODUCTION
Material removal processes, Types of Machine Tools; Single and multi point cutting
tools.
METAL CUTTING
Introduction, Chip Formation, Shear Zone, Orthogonal Cutting, Shear Angle and Its
Relevance, Cutting Tool Materials, Thermal Aspects, Tool Wear and Tool Life, Surface
Finish, Cutting Fluids, Empirical and Analytical Determination of Cutting Forces,
Economics.
MACHINE TOOLS
Classification of Machine Tools, Generation and Forming, Methods of Generating
Surfaces, Accuracy and Finish Achievable, Basic Elements of Machine Tools, Support
Structures, Guideways, General Work Holding Methods.
UNIT – II
MACHINE TOOLS:
CENTRE LATHE
Introduction, Constructional Features of a Centre Lathe, Aids for Support and Location,
Cutting Tools, Operations Performed in a Centre Lathe, Taper Turning Methods,
108
Thread Cutting Methods, Special Attachments, Machining Time and Power Estimation
Typical Set-ups.
SPECIAL PURPOSE LATHES
Limitations of a Centre Lathe, Capstan and Turret Lathes, Automatic Lathes, Tooling
Layout and CAM Design for Automatic Lathes.
RECIPROCATING MACHINE TOOLS
Introduction, Shaper, Planer, Slotter.
UNIT – III
MILLING
Introduction, Types of Milling Machines, Milling Cutters, Milling Operations, Dividing
Head, Milling Mechanics, Machining Time Estimation, Special Set-ups.
HOLE MAKING OPERATIONS
Introduction, Drilling, Reaming, Boring, Tapping, Other Hole Making Operations
UNIT IV
GRINDING & SUPERFINISHING PROCESSES
Introduction, Grinding Wheel – Designation and Selection, Types of Grinding
Machines, Grinding Process, Grinding Process Parameters, Creep Feed Grinding,
Honing, Lapping, Other Finishing Processes
UNIT V
UNCONVENTIONAL MACHINING PROCESSES
Need for Unconventional Processes, Overview on Electric Discharge Machining,
Electrochemical Machining, Ultrasonic Machining, Chemical Machining, Laser Beam
Machining, Water Jet Machining & Abrasive Jet Machining.
OTHER MACHINE TOOLS
Over view of Sawing, Broaching, Gear Cutting.
JIGS AND FIXTURES
Introduction, Principles of design of Jigs and fixtures, Principles of location, Locating
devices, Clamping devices, Typical examples of jigs and fixtures.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Manufacturing Technology, Vol. 2, Metal Cutting and Machine Tools by P N Rao;
Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Production Technology by HMT; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Manufacturing Engineering and Technology by Serope Kalpak Jian; Publisher:
Pearson Learning.
2. Production Technology by R. K. Jain & S. C. Gupta.
3. Workshop Technology- Vol. 2, by B. S. Raghuvamshi.
109
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology, Hyderabad
III Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
4 1 4
(13MED016) MECHANICAL ENGINEERING DESIGN - II
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Mechanics, Strength of Materials, kinematics of
machinery and dynamics of Machinery.
Course Objectives:
• Understand different types of bearing and their design, center cranks, crank
pins, crank shafts.
• Understand stresses in curved beams, expression for radius of neutral axis
for rectangular, circular, trapezoidal and T-section, transmission of power by
belt and rope drives, transmission efficiencies.
• Understand the overview of different types of gears and their applications,
force analysis, friction in worm gears etc.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Design different types of bearings, clams, cylinder liners, belt and rope drives
etc.
• Design crane hooks and C-clamps.
• Design different types of gears like spur gear, helical gear, bevel gear, worm
gear etc.
UNIT – I
BEARINGS:
Types of Journal bearings – Lubrication – Bearing Modulus – Full and partial bearings
– Clearance ratio – Heat dissipation of bearings, bearing materials – journal bearing
design – Ball and roller bearings – Static loading of ball and roller bearings, Bearing
life, Bearing selection.
UNIT – II
ENGINE PARTS:
Pistons, Forces acting on piston – Construction, design and proportions of piston,
Cylinder, Cylinder liners.
CONNECTING ROD:
Thrust in connecting rod – stress due to whipping action on connecting rod ends –
Cranks and Crank shafts, strength and proportions of over hung & Overview of Center
cranks; Crank pins, Crank shafts.
110
UNIT – III
DESIGN OF CURVED BEAMS:
Introduction, stresses in curved beams, Expression for radius of neutral axis for
rectangular, circular, trapezoidal and T-Section. Design of crane hooks, C –clamps.
POWER TRANSMISSIONS SYSTEMS, PULLEYS:
Transmission of power by Belt and Rope drives, Transmission efficiencies, Belts – Flat
and V types – Ropes - pulleys for belt and
rope drives, Materials, Chain drives.
UNIT – VI
SPUR AND HELICAL GEAR DRIVES:
Spur gears- Helical gears – Load concentration factor – Dynamic load factor. Surface
compressive strength – Bending strength – Design analysis of spur gears – Estimation
of centre distance, module and face width, check for plastic deformation. Check for
dynamic and wear considerations.
UNIT – V
DESIGN OF BEVEL GEAR DRIVES:
Bevel gears – Load concentration factor – Dynamic load factor. Surface compressive
strength- Bending strength – Design analysis of Bevel gears- Estimation of centre
distance, module and face width, check for plastic deformation, Check for dynamic and
wear considerations.
DESIGN OF WORM GEAR DRIVES:
Worm gears – Properties of worm gears – Selection of materials – Strength and wear
rating of worm gears – Force analysis – Friction in worm gears – thermal
considerations.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Machine Design by V. Bhandari; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Machine Design by R. L. Norton
REFERENCES:
1. Mechanics of Materials (SI Units) by Beer & Johnson; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Data Books: P.S.G. College of Technology
3. Mechanical Engineering Design by J. E. Shigley
4. Machine Design by R. S. Khurmi & J. S. Gupta; Publisher: Sultan Chand.
5. Machine Design (SI Units) by Schaums Outline Series; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
111
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13MED017) METROLOGY AND QUALITY CONTROL
Course Prerequisites: Machine Drawing, Production Technology, machine tools,
Probability & Statistics.
Course Objectives:
• Understand limits and fits as applicable in mechanical engineering design.
• Understand the measuring instruments and their operating principles and
use
• Understand quality control and statistical quality control.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Apply limits and fits while designing components.
• Use measuring instruments for measuring dimensions and geometry.
• Apply statistical quality control techniques to products.
UNIT I
SYSTEMS OF LIMITS AND FITS:
Introduction, normal size, tolerance limits, deviations, allowance, fits and their types –
unilateral and bilateral tolerance system, hole and shaft basis systems –
interchangeability and selective assembly, Indian standard Institution system –
knowledge about international standards - ISO 9000, 7QC Tools, British standard
system.
UNIT II
LINEAR MEASUREMENT : Limit Gauges Taylors principle – Design of go and No go
gauges, plug ring, snap, gap, taper, profile position gauges and slip gauges,.
ANGULAR MEASUREMENT: sine bar, spirit level, angle slip gages and sine plate.
OPTICAL MEASURING INSTRUMENTS:
Tool maker’s microscope and its uses – collimators, optical projector.
SURFACE ROUGHNESS MEASUREMENT:
Differences between surface roughness and surface waviness-Numerical assessment
of surface finish – CLA,R, R.M.S Values – Rz values, Rz value, Methods of
measurement of surface finish-profilograph.
UNIT III
SCREW THREAD MEASUREMENT:
Element of measurement – errors in screw threads – measurement of effective
diameter, angle of thread and thread pitch.
GEAR MEASUREMENT:
Gear measuring instruments, Gear tooth profile measurement. Measurement of
diameter, pitch pressure angle and tooth thickness.
112
UNIT IV
QUALITY CONTROL:
Introduction - quality – quality control – significance- defect and defective – theory of
probability – basic concepts – probability distributions – simple problems. Binomial,
passion and normal distributions-related properties. Tests of hypothesis-type I, Type II
errors and proportions.
UNIT V
STATISTICAL QUALITY CONTROL:
Introduction – significance - elements of quality control – process control – control
limits – representations – control charts – control charts for variables – X and R charts
– control charts for attributes – C and P charts - steps involved in the constructions of
control charts – Acceptance sampling – sampling plans – simple problems –
applications and limitations of SQC.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Metrology by I C Gupta; Publisher: Dhanpat Rai.
2. Engineering Metrology by R.K. Jain; Publisher: Khanna.
3. Total Quality by Armand V. Feigenbaum; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
4. Probability and Statistics for Engineers - Miller I.R. and Freund J.E, 5th Edition,
Prentice-Hall, 1995.
REFERENCES:
1. BIS standards on Limits and Fits, Surface Finish, Machine Tool Alignment etc.
2. Fundamentals of Dimensional Metrology by Connie Dotson Publisher: Thomson.
3. Statistical Quality Control by Eugene Grant; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
4. Introduction to Statistical Quality Control by D. C. Montgomery; Publisher: John
Wiley Publications.
5. Metrology by Mahajaan.
113
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13EIE080) INSTRUMENTATION AND CONTROL SYSTEMS
Course Objectives:
• To provide basic knowledge in transduction principles, sensors and
transducer technology and measurement systems.
• To provide better familiarity with the Theoretical and Practical concepts of
automation in industries.
• To provide familiarity with different sensors and their application in real time
applications
• To provide the knowledge of various measurement methods of industrial
parameters like velocity, acceleration, torque, pressure, flow, temperature
etc. and control of the same
Course Outcomes:
Student will be able to:
• Able to know instrumentation system used in the industry.
• Able to appreciate the automation with the help of instrumentation.
• Able to understand the experimental applications and selecting appropriate
engineering modules.
• Able to develop aptitude for self-learning and modern technical skills beyond
the curriculum.
UNIT I
Definition – Basic principles of measurement – Measurement systems, static
characteristics.
MEASUREMENT OF DISPLACEMENT:
Theory and construction of various transducers to measure displacement-Piezo
electric, Inductive, capacitance, resistance, ionization and Photo electric transducers.
MEASUREMENT OF SPEED:
Mechanical Tachometers – Electrical tachometers – Stroboscope, Noncontact type of
tachometer.
MEASUREMENT OF ACCELERATION AND VIBRATION:
Different simple instruments – Principles of Seismic instruments – Vibrometer and
accelerometer using this principle.
UNIT II
STRESS STRAIN MEASUREMENTS:
Various types of stress and strain measurements – electrical strain gauge – gauge
factor – method of usage of resistance strain gauge for bending compressive and
tensile strains – usage for measuring torque, Strain gauge Rosettes.
114
MEASUREMENT OF HUMIDITY:
Moisture content of gases, Sling psychrometer, Absorption psychrometer, Dew point
meter.
MEASUREMENT OF FORCE, TORQUE AND POWER:
Elastic force meters, load cells, Torsion meters, Dynamometers.
UNIT III
MEASUREMENT OF TEMPERATURE: Classification – Ranges – Various Principles
of measurement– Expansion, Electrical Resistance – Thermistor – Thermocouple –
Pyrometers – Temperature Indicators.
MEASUREMENT OF PRESSURE: Units – classification – different principles used.
Manometers, Piston, Bourdon pressure gauges, Bellows – Diaphragm gauges. Low
pressure measurement – Thermal conductivity gauges – ionization pressure gauges,
Mcleod pressure gauge.
MEASUREMENT OF LEVEL: Direct method – Indirect methods – capacitative,
ultrasonic, magnetic, cryogenic fuel level indicators – Bubler level indicators.
FLOW MEASUREMENT: Rotameter, magnetic, Ultrasonic, Turbine flow meter, Hot –
wire anemometer, Laser Doppler Anemometer (LDA).
UNIT IV
INTRODUCTION TO CONTROL SYSTEMS:
Introduction - basic components of a control system, control-system applications, open-
loop control systems (without feed-back systems), and closed-loop control systems
(with feedback systems); Example of open loop and closed loop systems. Feedback
and its effects - effect of feedback on overall gain, effect of feedback on stability, and
effect of feedback on external disturbance or noise; Classification of systems, nonlinear
characteristics of systems.
UNIT V
SYSTEM MODELING:
Transfer function (TF) Block diagram (BD) reduction techniques, Signal flow
graph(SFG), BD to TF, TF to BD, TF to SFG, SFG to TF conversions, Mathematical
Modeling of systems in translational and rotational motions, Analogy between different
types of systems like electrical, mechanical, pneumatic & hydraulic, DC motor transfer
function, signal flow graph, Working of Potentiometer, tachometer, servo motors,
synchros.
115
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Measurement Systems: Applications & design by D. S. Kumar.
2. Mechanical Measurements by Beckwith, Marangoni & Linehard; Publisher:
Prentice Hall International/Pearson Education.
REFERENCES:
1. Measurement systems: Application and Design, Doeblin Earnest. O. Adaptation
by Manik and Dhanesh; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Instrumentation and Control systems by S. Bhaskar; Publisher: Anuradha
Agencies.
3. Experimental Methods for Engineers by Holman.
4. Mechanical and Industrial Measurements by R.K. Jain; Publisher: Khanna.
5. Instrumentation & Mechanical Measurements by A.K. Tayal; Publisher: Galgotia
6. Instrumentation, Measurement & Analysis by B. C. Nakra & K. K. Choudhary,
Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
7. Mechanical Measurements by Sahani.
116
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 1 3
(13CED037) DISASTER MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives:
• Understand the difference between a hazard and disaster
• Know about various disasters and their impacts
• Understand Different approaches of disaster risk reduction
• Understand Disaster risks in India
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Acquire the knowledge disaster Management
• Understand the vulnerability of ecosystem and infrastructure due to a disaster
• Acquire the knowledge of Disaster Management Phases
• Understand the hazard and vulnerability profile of India
UNIT-1
Introduction to disaster Concepts and definitions (Disaster, Hazard, Vulnerability,
Resilience, Risks)
UNIT-II
Disasters: Classifications, Causes, Impacts (including social, economic, political,
environment, health, psychosocial, etc.)
Differential impacts-in terms of caste, class, gender, age, location, disability Global
trends in disasters. Urban disaster, pandemics, complex emergencies, Climate
change.
UNIT-III
Approaches to disaster Risk reduction
Disaster cycle-its analysis, phase, Culture of safety, prevention, mitigation and
preparedness, community based DRR, Structural measures, roles and responsibilities
of community. Panchayati Raj Institutions/Urban Local Bodies (PRIs/ULBs), states,
center and other stake-holders.
UNIT-IV
Inter-relationship between Disaster and Development
Factors affecting Vulnerabilities, differential impacts, impact of development projects
such as dams, embankments, change in land-use etc. Climate change Adaption.
Relevance of indigenous knowledge, appropriate technology and local resources.
117
UNIT-V
Disaster Risk Management in India
Hazard and vulnerability profile of India
Components of Disaster relief: Water, food, sanitation, shelter, health, waste
management
Institutional arrangements (Mitigation, Response and Preparedness, DM Act Policy,
Other related polices, plan, programmes and legislation)
Project Work :( Field Work, Case Studies)
The project/fieldwork is meant for students to understand vulnerabilities and to work on
reducing disaster risks and to build a culture of safety. Projects must be conceived
creatively based on the geographic location and hazard.
Suggested Reading list:
1. Alexander David, Introduction in ‘Confronting Catastrophe’, oxford University
press, 2000.
2. Andharia J. Vulnerability in disaster Discourse, JTCDM, Tata Institute of Social
Sciences working paper no.8, 2008.
3. Blaikie, P, Cannon T, Davis I, Wisner B 1997. At Risk Natural Hazards, Peoples’
Vulnerability and Disaster, Rutledge.
4. Coppola P Damon, 2007. Introduction to International Disaster Management.
5. Carter, Nick 1991.Disaster Management: A Disaster Manager’s Handbook. Asian
Development Bank, Manila Philippines.
6. Cuny,F.1983. Development and Disasters, Oxford University Press.
7. Govt.of India; Disaster Management Act 2005,Government of India, New Delhi.
118
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 1 3
(13ITD005) JAVA PROGRAMMING
Course Objectives:
On completion, students will be able
• To produce object-oriented solutions to a range of standard programming
problems.
• They will be able to articulate and restructure programming objectives in the
object- oriented paradigm.
• They will be informed with regard to the fundamental concepts and principles
of object-oriented programming
• They will be able to apply these concepts in any programming language.
Course Outcomes (LO):
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
• Design/Develop Program
• Implement Program
• Test Program
• Validate Program
UNIT-I
Fundamentals of Object Oriented programming: Object oriented paradigm - Basic
concepts of Object Oriented Programming - Benefits of OOP - Applications of OOP
Java Evolution: Java Features - How Java differs from C and C++ - Java and Internet
- Java and World Wide Web - Web Browsers - Hardware and Software Requirements -
Java Environment. Overview of Java Language: Simple Java Program - Java Program
Structure - Java Tokens- Java Statements - Implementing a Java Program - Java
Virtual Machine - Constants - Variables - Data types - Scope of Variables-Symbolic
Constants-Type Casting and type promotions – Operators, Operator Precedence and
Associativity - Control Statements – break - continue- Arrays-Multi dimensional arrays,
Wrapper Classes - Simple examples.
UNIT-II
Classes: Classes and Objects - Constructors – methods - this keyword – garbage
collection- finalize - Overloading methods and constructors - Access Control- Static
members – nested and inner classes – command line arguments - variable length
arguments.
Inheritance: Forms of inheritance – specialization, specification, construction,
extension, limitation, combination, benefits and costs of inheritance. Super uses- final -
polymorphism, method overriding - dynamic method dispatch –abstract classes –
exploring string class.
119
UNIT-III
Packages and Interfaces: Defining and accessing a package – understanding
CLASSPATH – access protection importing packages – Interfaces - Defining and
implementing an interface, Applying interfaces, Variables in interfaces and extended
interfaces. Exploring java.lang and java.util packages.
Exception Handling-Fundamentals, usage of try, catch, multiple catch clauses, throw,
throws and finally. Java Built in Exceptions and creating own exception subclasses.
UNIT - IV
Multithreaded Programming: Java Thread life cycle model – Thread creation -
Thread Exceptions - Thread Priority – Synchronization - Messaging - Runnable
Interface - Interthread Communication - Deadlock - Suspending, Resuming and
stopping threads.
I/O Streams: File – Streams – Advantages - The stream classes – Byte streams –
Character streams.
Networks basics: Socket Programming - Proxy Servers - TCP/IP Sockets - Net
Address - URL - Datagram’s
UNIT – V
Applet Programming: How Applets differ from Applications - Applet Life Cycle -
Creating an Applet - Running the Applet- Designing a Webpage - Applet Tag - Adding
Applet to HTML file - More about Applet Tag - Passing parameters to Applets - Aligning
the display.
Event handling: basics of event handling, Event classes, Event Listeners, delegation
event model, handling mouse and keyboard events, adapter classes, AWT Class
hierarchy - AWT Controls - Layout Managers and Menus, limitations of AWT, Swing,
MVC architecture, components, containers, exploring swing.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. The Complete Reference Java J2SE 5th Edition, Herbert Schildt, TMH
Publishing Company Ltd, New Delhi.
2. Big Java 2nd Edition, Cay Horstmann, John Wiley and Sons.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Java How to Program, Sixth Edition, H.M.Dietel and P.J.Dietel, Pearson
Education/PHI.
2. Core Java 2, Vol 1, Fundamentals, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell,
Seventh Edition, Pearson Education.
3. Core Java 2, Vol 2, Advanced Features, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell,
Seventh Edition, Pearson Education.
120
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 1 3
(13AED010) MODERN AUTOMOBILE TECHNOLOGIES
Course Prerequisites: Physics, Basic Electrical Engineering.
Course objectives:
• Understand the basics of Automobile Engineering without any previous
knowledge regarding Automobiles.
• Understand the difference between IC engine Vehicle and HEV/EV.
• Appreciate the current technologies in the Automobile industry
Course outcomes:
Student should be able to
• Apply fundamental knowledge of Automobile Engineering for design of Safety
systems like AIRBAGS,ABS etc.,.
• Apply fundamental knowledge of Automobile Engineering for design of
Comfort systems like Power steering, Collapsible and tiltable steering
column, and power windows. etc.,.
• Gain the knowledge of HEV/EVs and their trouble shooting.
UNIT-I:
INTRODUCTION:
Basic layout of an automobile with reference to power plant, power required for
propulsion, various resistances to motion of the automobile, Types of tyres, Basic
steering systems, Brakes, Necessity of brake, Two and Three wheelers: Classification
of two and three wheelers.
UNIT-II:
ELECTRIC VEHICLES:
Layout of an electric vehicle, performance of electric vehicles – traction motor
haracteristics, tractive effort, transmission requirements.
UNIT-III:
HYBRID VEHICLES:
Concepts of hybrid electric drive train, types, architecture of series and parallel hybrid
electric drive train, merits and demerits, series and parallel hybrid electric drive train
design.
UNIT-IV:
SAFETY SYSTEMS:
Airbags, seat belt tightening system, collision warning systems, child lock, anti - lock
braking systems, anti - spin regulation, traction control systems.
121
TELEMATICS:
Global positioning systems, geographical information systems, navigation systems,
automotive vision system, road recognition, driver assistance systems.
UNIT-V:
SECURITY SYSTEMS:
Anti theft technologies, smart card system, number plate coding.
COMFORT SYSTEMS:
Active suspension systems, requirement and characteristics, different types, power
steering, collapsible and tiltable steering column, power windows.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. “Modern Electric, Hybrid Electric and Fuel Cell Vehicles Fundamentals,
Theory and Design”, Mehrdad Ehsani, Yimin Gao, sebastien E. Gay and Ali
Emadi: CRS Press, 2004.
REFERENCES:
1. “Automotive Hand Book” Robert Bosch, SAE, 5th edition, 2000.
2. “Intelligent Vehicle Technologies”, Ljubo Vlacic, Michel Parent and Fumio
Harashima, Butterworth-Heinemann publications, Oxford, 2001.
3. “Navigation and Intelligent Transportation Systems – Progress in
Technology”, Ronald K Jurgen, Automotive Electronics Series, SAE, USA,
1998.
122
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 1 3
(13MED020) NON CONVENTIONAL ENERGY SOURCE
Course Prerequisites: Thermodynamics, Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer
Course Objectives:
• Understand about different types of Non Conventional Energy Sources.
• Understand about different equipments used in generation of energy.
• Understand about design and fabrication of equipments for collection and
conversion of energy.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Select any Non Conventional Energy Source equipment and apply concept of
heat transfer and obtain the results.
• Able to design a wind mill.
• Able to design a solar collector for different applications
UNIT – I
INTRODUCTION:
PRINCIPLES OF RENEWABLE ENERGY :
Introduction; Energy and sustainable development; Fundamentals; Scientific principles
of renewable energy; Technical implications; Social implications.
PRINCIPLES OF SOLAR RADIATION : the solar energy option, Environmental impact
of solar power, physics of the sun, the solar constant, extraterrestrial and terrestrial
solar radiation, solar radiation on titled surface, instruments for measuring solar
radiation and sun shine, solar radiation data.
UNIT-II
SOLAR ENERGY COLLECTION : Flat plate and concentrating collectors,
classification of concentrating collectors, orientation and thermal analysis, advanced
collectors.
SOLAR ENERGY STORAGE AND APPLICATIONS : Different methods, Sensible,
latent heat and stratified storage, solar ponds. Solar Applications- solar heating/cooling
technique, solar distillation and drying, photovoltaic energy conversion.
UNIT-III
WIND ENERGY : Sources and potentials, horizontal and vertical axis windmills,
performance characteristics, Betz criteria.
BIO-MASS : Principles of Bio-Conversion, Anaerobic/aerobic digestion, types of Bio-
gas digesters, gas yield, combustion characteristics of bio-gas, utilization for cooking,
I.C.Engine operation and economic aspects.
123
UNIT-IV
GEOTHERMAL ENERGY : Resources, types of wells, methods of harnessing the
energy, potential in India.
OCEAN ENERGY : OTEC, Principles utilization, setting of OTEC plants,
thermodynamic cycles. Tidal and wave energy: Potential and conversion techniques,
mini-hydel power plants, and their economics.
UNIT-V
DIRECT ENERGY CONVERSION : Need for DEC, Carnot cycle, limitations, principles
of DEC.Thermo-electric generators, seebeck, peltier and joul Thomson effects, Figure
of merit, materials, applications,MHD generators, principles, dissociation and
ionization, hall effect, magnetic flux, MHD accelerator, MHDEngine, power generation
systems, electron gas dynamic conversion, economic aspects. Fuel cells,principles,
faraday’s law’s, thermodynamic aspects, selection of fuels and operating conditions.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Renewable energy resources/ Tiwari and Ghosal/ Narosa.
2. Non-Conventional Energy Sources /G.D. Rai.
REFERENCES:
1. Renewable Energy Sources /Twidell & Weir.
2. Solar Energy /Sukhame
3. Splar Power Engineering / B.S Magal Frank Kreith & J.F Kreith.
4. Principles of Solar Energy / Frank Krieth & John F Kreider.
5. Non-Conventional Energy / Ashok V Desai /Wiley Eastern.
6. Non-Conventional Energy Systems / K Mittal /Wheeler
7. Renewable Energy Technologies /Ramesh & Kumar /Narosa
124
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 1 3
(13CSE016) INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
Course Objectives: This course is designed
• To make students familiar with Intellectual Property Rights.
• To understand innovations in engineering and other domains.
• To be familiar with patents, copyrights and various acts related to
innovations.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• To define various terms related to Intellectual Property Rights.
• To understand the process of patent, copyrights and related procedures.
• To analyse the situation of IPR in the Indian context with that of global
scenario.
• To understand the patenting process through various case studies.
UNIT I
Introduction – Invention and Creativity – Intellectual Property (IP) – Importance –
Protection of IPR – Basic types of property i. Movable Property ii. Immovable Property
and iii. Intellectual Property.
UNIT II
IP – Patents – Copyrights and related rights – Trade Marks and rights arising from
Trademark registration – Definitions – Industrial Designs and Integrated circuits –
Protection of Geographical Indications at national and International levels – Application
Procedures..
UNIT III
International convention relating to Intellectual Property – Establishment of WIPO –
Mission and Activities – History – General Agreement on Trade and Tariff (GATT).
UNIT IV
Indian Position Vs WTO and Strategies – Indian IPR legislations – commitments to
WTO-Patent Ordinance and the Bill – Draft of a national Intellectual Property Policy –
Present against unfair competition.
UNIT V
Case Studies on – Patents (Basumati rice, turmeric, Neem, etc.) – Copyright and
related rights – Trade Marks – Industrial design and Integrated circuits – Geographic
indications – Protection against unfair competition.
125
TEXT BOOKS
1. Subbaram N.R. “Handbook of Indian Patent Law and Practice, “ S. Viswanathan
Printers and Publishers Pvt. Ltd., 1998.
REFERENCES
1. P. Narayanan; Law of Copyright and Industrial Designs; Eastern law House, Delhi,
2010.
2. Prabhuddha Ganguli: ‘ Intellectual Property Rights” Tata Mc-Graw –Hill, New
Delhi.
3. M.Ashok Kumar and Mohd.Iqbal Ali: “Intellectual Property Right” Serials Pub.
126
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED111) MACHINE TOOLS AND METROLOGY LAB
Course Prerequisite: Machine tools and Engineering Materials
Course Objectives:
• Understand the working principles of various machine tools and accessories
• Understand the significance of operating parameters and selection of cutting
tools for machining
• Understand working principles of various instruments and their applications
• Understand the significance of calibration and conducting various tests
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Select an appropriate machine tool for machining a given material and adopt
the knowledge on operating parameters
• Decide the tolerances achieved in different machining operations
• Select appropriate work holding devices
• Select an appropriate instrument for measuring a given parameter
MACHINE TOOLS: Any Six experiments
1. Introduction of general purpose machines - Lathe, Drilling machine, Milling
machine, Shaper, Planing machine, slotting machine, Cylindrical Grinder,
Surface grinder and Tool and cutter grinder.
2. Exercise on Facing, turning, step turning and taper turning on lathe machine.
3. Exercise on Grooving, Thread cutting and knurling on lathe machine.
4. Exercise on Drilling, Boring, Counter boring, Counter sinking and Tapping
operations on drilling machine.
5. Exercise on Shaping to prepare plain surfaces.
6. Exercise on Slotting to prepare contour surfaces.
7. Exercise on Milling to perform plain /gear cutting.
8. Exercise on Cylindrical Grinding machine.
9. Exercise on Grinding of Tool angles.
10. Exercise on Surface Grinding machine.
Demonstration on
Different methods of Taper Turning, Boring, Collar turning, use of four jaw chuck on
lathe, Cutting of V - block on shape, Key way cutting on shaper/milling
127
METROLOGY: Any Six experiments
1. Measurement of various parameters of a given job using Vernier calipers and
micrometer.
2. Measurement of internal dimensions with internal micrometer and dial bore
indicator.
3. Checking of chordal width and height of a spur gear tooth using gear tooth
Vernier calipers.
4. Machine tool alignment test on a lathe.
5. Machine tool alignment test on a milling machine.
6. Measurement of various elements of a screw thread using Tool maker’s
microscope.
7. Angle and taper measurements by bevel protractor, sine bar etc.
8. Measurement of effective diameter of a screw thread by two wire/ three wire
method using floating carriage micrometer.
9. Surface roughness measurement by TalySurf.
10. Measurement of single point cutting tool angles by using profile projector.
REFERENCES:
1. Workshop Technology by W.A.J. Chapman (Parts I, II, and III); Publisher: Viva
Books.
2. The Principles of Metallographic Laboratory Practice by George L. Kehl;
Publisher: McGraw Hill.
128
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech (Common to all Branches) L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13ENG102) ADVANCED ENGLISH COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
Introduction
This course aims to offer students a practical approach to Technical Writing,
and provide a relevant, contemporary and authoritative introduction to the
dynamic field of technical communication that prepares them for Workplace
Communication. Each unit in the syllabus is devised so as to include a writing
component as well as an oral component.
Course objectives:
• enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content to write
business letters, resume, SOP, Proposals and Technical Reports for
academics as well as for workplace.
• enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific
target audience.
• groom students to speak accurately and fluently and prepare them for real
world activities through behavioral skills.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• summarize and synthesize information and produce technical writing that is
required in academics as well as in the engineering profession.
• write covering letters, resume, SOP, Project Proposals and Technical
Reports.
• speak fluently and address a large group of audience and participate in
debates and discussions.
Methodology
Writing Component
A Process- Genre methodology will be used in teaching the technical genres. This
method would enable students to understand the use of particular lexico-grammatical
patterns required of in the context of technical writing. They would learn to use
language to express the particular communicative intent that is required of in the
context of writing these genres.
Syllabus Outline
Unit I
1. Applications and Covering letters
2. Resume Writing
3. Verbal Ability: language, Reading and Listening, Reasoning and Analysis
4. Oral Communication :Talking About Yourself
129
Unit II
1. Writing an SOP
2. Summarizing and Synthesizing Information (Precis Writing)
3. Oral Communication: Making Presentations
Unit III
1. Writing Project Proposals
2. Oral Communication: Group Discussions
Unit IV
1. Writing Project Reports
2. Oral Communication: Interview Skills
Unit V
Behavioral Skills and Personality Development
1. Building a Positive attitude, Building a Positive Personality, Motivation, Goal
Setting & Values & Vision
2. Problem Solving and Decision Making; Negotiation Skills through Role Play
3. Team Building and Leadership Abilities
4. Social Etiquette
REQUIRED TEXT AND MATERIALS
1. Ashraf Rizvi, M (2005). Effective Technical Communication, Tata Mc Graw
Hill Publishing Company Limited, New Delhi.
2. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical
Communication: A Reader-Centered Approach ( 5th ed..) (pp. 457-473).
Boston: Heinle.
3. William S. Pfeiffer (2012) Technical Communication: A Practical Approach
(7th ed.) Longman.
REFERENCES
1. Burnett, Rebecca. Technical Communication. 5th Ed., Heinle, 2001.
2. Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson : Technical Writing Process and
Product. 3rd edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999.
3. Markel, Mike. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies (8th
EDITION (2006-2007).
4. R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan, Business Correspondence and Report Writing,
Third Edition, TMH, 2002. (Indian Edition).
5. M. Raman and S. Sharma, Technical Communication : Principles and
Practices, OUP, 2004. (Indian Edition).
130
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13EIE176) INSTRUMENTATION AND CONTROL SYSTEMS LAB
Course Objectives:
• To make student get hands on experience in active and passive sensors.
• Understand the principles and appreciate the working of controllers,
degrees of freedom, control valves.
• Learn systematic engineering method to solve practical process control
problems.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Appreciate the use of sensors.
• Suggest the type of sensors required for any operation.
• Design and develop a simple measuring devices.
List of Experiments:
1. Measurement of Load using Strain Gauge bridge
2. Measurement of Temperature using Thermistor, RTD and Thermocouple
3. Measurement of Displacement using LVDT, use of LVDT for Capacitance
measurement
4. Measurement of L,C and R using Bridges and comparing them with Q-Meter
5. Characteristics of Opto-Electric Transducers (Photo Transistor, Photo Diode
and LDR)
6. Pressure measurement through Bourdon Tube
7. Radiation and optical Pyrometers
8. Flow level control unit.
9. Temperature level control unit.
10. Servo and regulator operation.
11. Realization of control actions: Pneumatic controllers.
12. Hydraulic controllers.
131
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME / AE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13MED018) FINITE ELEMENT METHOD
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Strength of Materials, Mechancal Vibrations
Course Objectives:
• Understand different concepts of FEM.
• To study the boundary conditions, formulations and other functional approaches
of FEM.
• To perform simulations using FEM software.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Apply suitable FEM approach to solve a given problem.
• Formulate the given problem into finite elements and FEM technique to
solve required paramters.
• Apply the concept of FEM to solve different field problems.
UNIT I
FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTS
Introduction; Historical background; Stresses and equilibrium; Boundary conditions;
Strain-displacement relations; Stress-strain relations; Temperature effects.
ONE-DIMENSIONAL PROBLEMS
Introduction; Finite element modeling; Co-ordinates and shape functions; The potential
energy approach; Rayleigh-Ritz method; Galerkin’s method, The Galerkin approach;
Assembly of the global stiffness matrix (K) and load vector; Properties of K; The finite
element equations; Treatment of boundary conditions; Quadratic shape functions;
Temperature effects.
UNIT II
TRUSSES
Introduction; Plane trusses; Three-dimensional trusses; Assembly of global stiffness
matrix for the banded and skyline solutions.
TWO-DIMENSIONAL PROBLEMS USING CONSTANT STRAIN TRIANGLES
Introduction; Finite element modeling; Constant strain triangle (CST); Problem
modeling and boundary conditions.
UNIT III
TWO-DIMENSIONAL ISOPARAMETRIC ELEMENTS AND NUMERICAL
INTEGRATION
Introduction; The four-node quadrilateral; Numerical integration; Higher-order-
elements.
132
DYNAMIC ANALYSIS USING FINITE ELEMENT METHOD
Introduction; Vibration problems; Equations of motion based on weak form;
Longitudinal vibrations of bars; consistent mass matrices; element equations; solution
of Eigen value problems.
UNIT IV
AXISYMMETRIC SOLIDS SUBJECTED TO AXISYMMETRIC LOADING
Introduction; Axisymmetric formulation; Finite element modeling - triangular element;
Problem modeling and boundary conditions.
STEADY STATE HEAT TRANSFER ANALYSIS:
One dimensional analysis of Slab, fin and two dimensional analysis of thin plate.
UNIT V
BEAMS
Introduction; Finite element formulation; Hermite shape function, Load vector;
Boundary considerations; Shear force and bending moment; Beams on elastic
supports;
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Introduction to Finite Elements in Engineering, 2E, by Tirupathi R. Chandrupatla,
Ashok D. Belegundu; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
2. Text book of Finite Element Analysis by Seshu.
3. Finite Element Analysis using ANSYS 11.0 by Srinivas et all.
REFERENCES:
1. Finite Element Method by Zienkiewicz.
2. An Introduction to Finite Element Methods by J. N. Reddy.
3. Finite Element Method by S. S. Rao.
133
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13MED019) CAD/CAM
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Graphics, Engineering Design, Production
technology
Course Objectives:
• Understand the mathematics behind the transformations and projections in
design of products on CAD devices.
• Learn the fundamentals of part programming required for manufacturing a
product.
• Appreciate the integration of design and manufacturing functions through
CAD and CAM.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Identify the types of computer devices and solve the problems on
transformations and use them in a CAD software .
• Prepare part programs involving various operations for the
manufacturing of simple and complex products.
• Apply the knowledge learnt in integrating CAD and CAM.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Computers in Industrial Manufacturing, Product cycle, CAD and CAM, Overview of
CAD / CAM Hardware, Display devices, Hard copy devices.
COMPUTER GRAPHICS
Raster scan graphics, Coordinate systems, Database structure for graphics modeling,
Transformation of geometry, 3D Transformations, Mathematics of projections, Clipping,
Hidden surface removal.
UNIT II
GEOMETRIC MODELING
Geometric models, Geometric construction methods, Curve representation, Surface
representation methods, Modeling facilities desired, Solid modeling.
DRAFTING SYSTEMS
Basic geometric commands, Layers, Display control commands, Editing,
Dimensioning.
UNIT III
COMPUTER NUMERICAL CONTROL
Introduction to NC machines and CNC machines, Structure of CNC machine tools,
Features of Machining center, Concept of ATC & APC, Feedback control.
134
CNC PART PROGRAMMING
Fundamentals, Introduction to G & M codes, Manual part programming methods,
Computer Aided Part Programming.
UNIT IV
GROUP TECHNOLOGY
Philosophy of Group Technology, Part families, Methods of Parts Classification and
Coding, Advantages and Limitations.
COMPUTER AIDED PROCESS PLANNING
Introduction, Retrieval type and Generative type, Benefits.
UNIT V
COMPUTER AIDED QUALITY CONTROL
Introduction, Terminology in quality control, The computer in QC, Contact inspection
methods, Noncontact inspection methods-optical and nonoptical, Computer aided
testing, Integration of CAQC with CAD/CAM.
COMPUTER INTEGRATED MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS
Introduction, Types of Manufacturing systems, Machine tools and related equipment,
Material handling systems, Computer Control Systems, Human labor in the
manufacturing systems, CIMS benefits.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. CAD / CAM by A. Zimmers and P. Groover; Publisher: Prentice Hall
International/Pearson Education.
2. CAD/CAM Principles and Applications by P N Rao; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill
3. CAD / CAM Theory and Practice by Ibrahim Zeid; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill
REFERENCES:
1. Automation, Production Systems and Computer integrated Manufacturing by
Groover; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. CAD / CAM / CIM by Radhakrishnan and Subramanian; Publisher: Pearson
Education
3. Principles of Computer Aided Design and Manufacturing by Farid Amirouche;
Publisher: Pearson Education
4. CAD/CAM: Concepts and Applications by Alavala; Publisher: Prentice Hall
International
5. Computer Numerical Control Concepts and programming by Warren S Seames;
Publisher: Thomson
135
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13AED076) AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
Course Prerequisites: Thermodynamics, Basic Electrical Engineering.
Course objectives:
• Understand the Working of Fuel, Ignition, and cooling Systems
• Understand the Working of Lubrication and Electrical Systems.
• Understand the Working of transmission, Suspension, Steering and Braking
Systems.
Course outcomes:
Student should be able to:
• Diagnose the simple problems on Fuel, Ignition, Cooling, Lubrication and
electrical systems.
• Diagnose the simple problems on transmission, Suspension, Steering and
Braking Systems
• Develop safe attitude towards mechanical operations of the Automotive
systems.
UNIT – I
INTRODUCTION: Components of four wheeler automobile – chassis and body –
power unit – power transmission – rear wheel drive, front wheel drive, 4 wheel drive –
types of automobile engines, engine construction, turbo charging and super charging –
ENGINE LUBRICATION: Splash and pressure lubrication systems, oil filters, oil
pumps – crank case ventilation – engine service, reboring, decarbonisation, Nitriding of
crank shaft.
COOLING SYSTEM: Cooling Requirements, Air Cooling, water Cooling, Thermo
syphon and Forced Circulation System – Radiators – Types – Cooling Fan - water
pump, thermostat, pressure sealed cooling – antifreeze solutions.
UNIT – II
FUEL SYSTEM: S. I. Engine: Fuel supply systems, Mechanical and electrical fuel
pump – filters – carburettor – types – air filters – petrol injection.
C. I. ENGINES: Requirements of diesel injection systems, types of injection systems,
fuel pump, nozzle, spray formation, injection timing, testing of fuel pumps.
EMISSION FROM AUTOMOBILES AND ALTERNATE FUELS: Pollution standards,
National and international, Pollution Controll, Techniques, Multipoint fuel injection for SI
Engines, Common rail diesel injection Energy alternatives, Photo-voltaic, hydrogen,
LPG, CNG, hybrid and electrical vehicles their merits and demerits.
136
UNIT – III
ELECTRICAL SYSTEM: Lead acid battery, generator, current – voltage regulator,
starting system, Bendix drive mechanism, solenoid switch, lighting systems, Horn,
wiper, fuel gauge, oil pressure gauge, engine temperature indicator etc.
IGNITION SYSTEM: Function of an ignition system, battery ignition system, contact
breaker points, condenser and spark plug – Magneto coil ignition system, electronic
ignition system using contact breaker, electronic ignition using contact triggers – spark
advance and retard mechanism.
UNIT – IV
TRANSMISSION SYSTEM: Clutches, principle, types, single plate clutch, multi plate
clutch, centrifugal clutches, fluid fly wheel – gear boxes, types, sliding mesh, constant
mesh, synchro mesh gear boxes, epicyclic gear box , over drive, torque converter,
Propeller shaft, Hotch – Kiss drive, Torque tube drive, universal joint, differential rear
axles – types, wheels and tyres.
SUSPENSION SYSTEM: Objects of suspension systems – rigid axle suspension
system, torsion bar, shock absorber, Independent suspension system, air suspension
system, MacPherson Strut suspension system.
UNIT-V
STEERING SYSTEM: Steering geometry – camber, castor, king pin inclination,
combined angle, toe-in, toe-out, center point steering. Types of steering mechanism –
Ackerman steering mechanism, Davis steering mechanism, steering gears – types,
steering linkages under steering and over steering, Power steering.
BRAKING SYSTEM: Mechanical brake system, Hydraulic brake system, Master
cylinder, wheel cylinder, tandem master cylinder, Requirement of brake fluid,
Pneumatic and Vacuum brakes, ABS (Anti Lock Breaking System).
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Automotive Mechanics by Heitner.
2. Automotive Mechanics by William Crouse.
REFERENCES:
1. A Text Book of Automobile Engineering by Manzoor, Nawazish Mehdi & Yosuf Ali;
Publisher: Frontline Publications.
2. Automotive Engineering by Newton; Publisher: Steeds & Garrett.
3. Automotive Mechanics by G. B. S. Narang.
4. Automotive Engines by Srinivasan.
5. Automobile Engineering by K. K. Ramalingam; Publisher: Scitech.
6. Automobile Engineering Vol. 1 & Vol. 2 by Kripal Singh.
137
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 1 3
(13MED021) AUTOMATION & ROBOTICS
Course Prerequisites: Production technology, control power systems,
mathematics, kinematics of machinery.
Course Objectives:
• To learn concepts of automation and robotics and components, end effectors of
robots.
• To study the motion analysis, kinematics, dynamics, types of robot motions and
the various actuators and feedback components used in robots.
• To learn the basics of robot programming, its languages and the industrial
applications of robots.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Identify the different robot configurations and find out the positions, angles of the
manipulators given the required using the motion analysis, kinematics, dynamics
and trajectory planning concepts.
• Analyze the different types of feedback components and sensors used in robots.
• Able to program a robot using the programming and languages.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Basic principles of automation, Hard Automation, Flexible Automation, basic elements
of automated system, levels of automation. Automation & Robotics, An overview of
Robotics, Classification by Coordinate Systems and control systems. Components of
the Industrial Robotics: Degrees of freedom, End effectors – Mechanical gripper,
Magnetic, Vacuum cup and other types of grippers, General consideration on gripper
selection and design.
Motion Analysis: Basic rotation matrices, Composite rotation matrices, Euler angles,
Equivalent angle and axis, Homogeneous transformation, Problems.
UNIT II
KINEMATICS AND DYNAMICS
Manipulator Kinematics: D-H notations, Joint coordinates and world coordinates,
Forward and Inverse kinematics, Problems.
Differential Kinematics: Differential kinematics of planar and spherical manipulators,
Jacobians, Problems.
Robot Dynamics: Lagrange-Euler formulations, Newton-Euler formulations, Problems
on planar two link manipulators.
138
UNIT III
TRAJECTORY PLANNING
Joint space scheme, Cubic polynomial fit, Avoidance of obstacles, Types of motions:
Slew motion, Joint interpolated motion, Straight line motion, Problems.
UNIT IV
ROBOT ACTUATORS AND FEEDBACK COMPONENTS
Actuators – Pneumatic, Hydraulic and Electric actuators, DC Servo motors, Stepper
motors.
Feedback components – Position sensors, Potentiometers, Resolvers and Encoders,
Velocity sensors, Tactile sensors.
UNIT V
ROBOT PROGRAMMING AND LANGUAGES:
Lead through programming, Motion programming, Motion interpolation, Robot
programming language, interlock and sensor commands, Simulation and Off-
Line programming.
ROBOT APPLICATIONS IN MANUFACTURING:
Material Handling and transfer, Welding, Assembly, Inspection, Future applications
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Industrial Robotics by M. P. Groover; Publisher: Pearson Education
2. Introduction to Robotic Mechanics and Control, by J. J. Craig, Publisher: Pearson
Education
REFERENCES:
1. Robot Dynamics and Control by M.W.Sponge and M.Vidyasagar; Publisher: John
Wiley.
2. Robotics by K.S.Fu; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
3. Robotic Engineering by Richard Klafter, Publisher: Prentice Hall.
4. Robot Analysis and Intelligence by Asada & Slotine, Publisher: Wiley Interscience.
5. Robotics & Control by Mittal R. K. & Nagrath I. J., Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
6. Modeling and control of robot manipulators by Sialliano & Sciallicco,Springer.
139
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 1 3
(13MED022) COMPOSITE MATERIALS
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics, Chemistry and engineering mechanics
Course Objectives:
• Understand composite materials and their properties, relationship between
them and manufacturing of different types.
• Understand the principles of material science applied to composite materials.
• Study the equations to analyze problems by making good assumptions and
learn systematic engineering method to solve practical composite mechanics
problems.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Apply fundamental knowledge of mathematics to modeling and analysis of
composite materials.
• Able to understand the manufacturing methods of various composite
materials.
• Able to analyze the failure of composites.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Introduction to Composite Materials: Introduction, definition of composite materials,
Classification of composites: Polymer Matrix Composites, Metal Matrix Composites,
Ceramic Matrix Composites, Carbon-Carbon Composites, Fiber reinforced Composites
and Nature made composites, and applications.
UNIT II
REINFORCEMENTS
Introduction, Classification of reinforcements, Flexibility, Fibers: Glass-Fabrication,
structure, properties and applications, Boron-Fabrication, structure and morphology,
properties and its applications, Carbon preparation, processing, properties and
applications, Preparation, properties and applications of: Organic fibers–Polyethylene,
Aramid, Ceramic, Non oxide-Silicon carbide, Whiskers.
UNIT III
MATRIX MATERIALS
Introduction, Polymers matrix materials-Thermoplastics and Thermosets, copolymers,
molecular weight, degree of crystallinity, stress strain behavior Common thermoset
matrix materials- epoxy, polyster, polyimides common thermoplastic matrix materials-
polyphenylene sulfide, polyaryl sulfone, Metal matrix materials- structure, properties of
metals, common metals applied as matrix metals, Ceramix matrix materials-types,
properties.
140
Interfaces-wettability, effect of surface roughness, crystallographic nature of interface,
Types of bonding at the interface-mechanical, physical, Chemical bonding.
Tests for measuring interfacial strength-Flexural tests, three point bending, four point
bending, short beam shear test, iosipescu shear test, Single fiber pullout test, curved
neck specimen test, instrumented indentation test, fragmentation test., Laser spallation
technique.
UNIT IV
MANUFACTURING METHODS
Polymer matrix composites(PMC)-Processing of thermoset matrix composites, Handy
Lay –Up and Spray Techniques, Filament winding, pultrusion, resin transfer molding,
Tape-Laying and fiber placement systems, Autoclave –based methods, Thermoplastic
matrix composites-Film stacking, Diaphraming, Thermoplastic Tape laying, Injection
Moulding, sheet moulding compound (SMC)
Types of Metal Matrix composites, processing-liquid state process, solid state process,
In situ process, properties and applications.
Ceramic matrix composites(CMC)-processing OF CMC, Cold pressing and sintering,
Hot pressing, Reaction bonding process, Liquid infiltration, Lanxide process, In Situ
chemical Reactions Techniques-chemical vapour deposition and chemical vapour
impregnation, sol-gel and polymer pyrolysis, Properties and applications of CMC,
Carbon Fiber composites-processing, properties and its applications.
UNIT V
MICROMECHANICS OF COMPOSITES
Introduction, Density, Volume, and Mass fractions, void contents, Mechanical
Properties: Prediction of elastic constants,
Halpin-Tsai Equations, Thermal properties: Thermal expansion coefficients of
composites, thermal conductivity of composites, Hygral and Thermal stress.
MACROMECHANICS OF COMPOSITES
Introduction, elastic constants of an isotropic material, elastic constants of a Lamina,
Relationships between engineering constants and reduced stiffness and compliances,
Fracture modes in composites: single and multiple fracture, debonding, fiber pullout,
delamination, fracture, fatigue and creep properties of composites, Design with
composites: Advantages of composites in structural design, Fundamental
characteristics of composites.
141
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Composite Materials Science and Engineering by Krishan K. Chawla; Publisher:
Springer.
2. Engineering Mechanics of Composite Materials by Isaac and M. Daniel; Publisher:
Oxford University Press, 1994.
REFERENCES:
1. Mechanics of Composites Material by R. M. Jones, Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Mechanics of Composite materials and Structures by Madhuji Mukhopadyaya
Publisher: University Press.
3. Analysis and performance of Fiber Composites by B. D. Agarwal, L. J. Broutman,
and K. Chandrasekhara; Publisher: John Wiley.
142
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 1 3
(13MED023) THEORY OF METAL CUTTING
Course Prerequisites: Production technology, Machine tools
Course Objectives:
• Understand the cutting tools geometry and their areas of application based on
principle of cutting.
• Understand cutting forces and their measurement.
• Understand tool wear, replacement strategy and optimization of cutting tool
usage.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Analyze a cutting tool, its geometry and arrive at the cutting process.
• Select a cutting tool material and appropriate to material to be cut.
• Select a cutting tool with optimal tool life to maximize material removal rate.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Mechanics of Metal Cutting: Mechanism of chip formation, Orthogonal and Oblique
cutting, Determination of shear plane angle, forces on the chips, forces in orthogonal
cutting, merchant circle diagram and analysis, co-efficient of friction, power and energy
relationship, velocity relationship, shear-strain relationship, factors affecting forces and
power, types of chips, built-up edge, problems.
UNIT II
MEASUREMENT OF CUTTING FORCES
Reasons for measuring cutting forces, Classification of cutting force dynamometers –
mechanical, piezoelectric, and strain gage type dynamometers, Dynamometers for
lathe, drilling, and milling, Calibration of dynamometers.
TOOL WEAR, TOOL LIFE
Mechanisms of tool wear, Sudden, gradual wear, crater wear, flank wear, tool failure
criteria, tool life equations, effect of process parameters on tool life.
UNIT III
GEOMETRY OF CUTTING TOOLS
Single point and multi point cutting tools, tools in hand nomenclature, tool point
reference systems, tool angle specifications – ISO and ASA systems, conversion from
one system to another. Effect of cutting parameters on tool geometry.
143
TOOL MATERIALS AND THEIR PROPERTIES
Characteristics of tools materials, types of tool materials – carbon tool steels, high
speed steels, cast alloys, cemented carbides, ceramics, diamonds, sialon, CBN,
UCON, recommended cutting speeds for the above tools.
UNIT IV
THERMAL ASPECTS IN METAL CUTTING
Heat sources in metal cutting, temperature in chip formation, temperature distribution,
experimental determination of tool temperatures.
CUTTING FLUIDS
Basic actions of cutting fluids, properties of cutting fluids, selection of cutting fluids,
application of cutting fluids, recommended cutting fluids.
UNIT V
ECONOMICS OF MACHINING
Introduction, elements of total production cost, optimum cutting speed and tool life for
minimum cost, optimum cutting speed and tool life for maximum production, problems.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Principles of Metal Cutting by G. C. Sen and A. Bhattacharya; Publisher: New
Central Book Agency.
2. Metal Cutting Principles by M C Shaw; Publisher: Oxford and IBH Publications
REFERENCES:
1. Fundamentals of Machining by Boothroyd; Publisher: Edward Amold
2. Metal Cutting Theory and Cutting Tool Design by V. Arshinov & G. Alekseev;
Publisher: Mir Publishers, Moscow
3. Fundamentals of Metal Cutting and Machine tools by B. L. Juneja, G. S. Sekhom
& Nitin Seth; Publisher: New Age International
4. Principles of Metal Cutting by G. Kuppuswamy; Publisher: Universities Press
144
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 1 3
(13MED025) SURFACE MODIFICATION TECHNIQUES
Course Prerequisites: Material science, Chemistry, Physics, Mechanical
Properties of materials, Physical Metallurgy.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the properties of surfaces and know different methods of
protection.
• Understand Surface treatment processes for engineering applications.
• Understand advanced tools and techniques used in the characterization of
coatings.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Design surface coating based on surface structure and product requirements.
• Select on appropriate surface modification depending on application
requirements.
• Decide on material and surface modification selections appropriate to
application environment.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO SURFACE ENGINEERING
Differences between surface and bulk, Properties of surfaces-wear, corrosion, optical,
roughness, electrical and thermal properties, wetability. Surface protection (physical),
surface modification (chemical) techniques: classification, principles, methods and
technology.
UNIT II
CONCEPTS OF COATING
Coatings- Concepts of coatings , Electroplating and electroless plating -Metallic and
non metallic coatings- chemical vapour deposition, physical vapour deposition,
Galvanizing – Thermal Spray, types of thermal spray and their advantages and
disadvantages - conventional verses nanocoatings.
UNIT III
PLASMA COATING TECHNOLOGY
Process parameters, thermal and kinetic history of inflight particle, micro structural
features of plasma sprayed coatings, single splat studies, process-structure property
relationship challenges in preparation, plasma spraying of nanopowders - its
microstructure – properties–Liquid precurser plasma spray- applications.
145
UNIT IV
CHARACTERIZATION OF COATINGS
Coatings –thickness-porosity-hardness, fracture toughness-elastic modulus –adhesion
bending strength-fracture strength- tensile strength- wear and corrosion measurement
phase analysis
UNIT V
HARD AND SOFT COATINGS
Laser cladding- laser alloying, Electron beam hardening-ion beam implantation- sol –
gel coatings –electrophoretic deposition –DLC and diamond coatings, antifriction and
antiscratch coatings.
SPUTTERING TECHNIQUES
Methods, applications, plasma treatments, nitriding–carbonising – boriding, titanizing
methods, applications.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Surface Engineering of Metals, Principles, equipments and Technologies-
Tadeusz Burakowski, Padeusg and Weirzxhon, CRC press, 1998.
2. Surface coatings for protection against wear edited by BG Miller, Woodhead
publishing – 2006.
REFERENCES:
1. Surface coatings ASM handbook.
2. Characterization Techniques ASM Handbook.
3. P. Fauchais, A. Vardelle, and B. Dussoubs, "Quo Vadis Thermal Spraying?
"Journal of Thermal Spray Technology, Volume 10(1) March2001.
4. H. Herman and S. Sampath "Thermal Spray Coatings" Published in 1996 by
Chapman and Hall, London. Edited by Kurt H Sien.
146
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 1 3
(13MED026) TOOL DESIGN
Course Prerequisites: Design principles, machine tools, process engineering.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the properties of tool materials such as ferrous, non ferrous, non
metallic materials and their heat treatment .
• How to design single and multi point cutting tools for various applications,
Must gain the knowledge of designing Jigs and Fixtures.
• Understand design of sheet metal tools for blanking, piercing, bending,
forming and drawing etc.
Course Outcomes:
Students should be able to:
• Design single and multi point cutting tools for various methods.
• Appropriate design for jigs and fixtures for several components depending on
quantity requirement.
• Decode an appropriate heat treatment for the tools.
UNIT I
TOOL MATERIALS AND HEAT TREATMENT
Introduction, Properties of Materials, Ferrous Tooling Materials: Tool Steels, Cast Iron and Mild or Low
Carbon Steels; Non Metallic Tooling Materials, Non ferrous Tooling Materials, Heat Treating,
Appearance of Carbon in Steel, Factor Affecting Heat Treating, Heat Treatment and Tool Design.
UNIT - II
DESIGN OF CUTTING TOOLS
Introduction, A Brief History of Metal Cutting, The Metal Cutting Process: The Basic
Requirements of a Cutting Tool, Mechanism and Geometry of Chip Formation, General
Consideration for Metal Cutting, Metal Cutting Tools: Single Point Cutting Tools, Milling
Cutters, Drills and Drilling, Types of Drills, Reamers, Reamer Classification, Taps, Taps
Classification; The Selection Of Carbide Cutting Tools: Carbide Tools Determination of Shank
Size for Single Point Carbide Tools, determining the Insert thickness for Carbide Tools
UNIT - III
DESIGN OF DRILL JIGS AND FIXTURES
Introduction, Definition of a Drill Jig, Types of Drill Jigs, Chip Formation in Drilling,
General Considerations in the Design of Drill Jigs, Drill Bushing, Methods of Construction, Drill Jigs
and Modern Manufacturing,. Fixtures and Economics, Types of Fixtures: Vice Fixtures, Milling
Fixtures, Boring Fixtures, Broaching Fixtures, Lathe Fixtures, Grinding Fixtures;
147
UNIT -IV
DESIGN OF SHEET METAL BLANKING AND PIERCING DIES
Introduction, Introduction to Die Cutting Operations: The Fundamentals of Die Cutting
Operations, Power Press Types, General Press Information, Materials Handling Equipment.
Cutting action in Punch and Die Operations. Die Clearance, Types of Die Construction; Die
Design Fundamentals: Blanking and Piercing Die Construction, Pilots, Stripper and Pressure Pads,
Presswork Material, Strip Layout, Short-Run Tooling for Piercing.
UNIT- V
DESIGN OF SHEET METAL BENDING, FORMING AND DRAWING DIES
Introduction, Bending Dies, Drawing Dies, Forming Dies, Drawing Operations, Variables that affect
metal flow during Drawing. Determining Blank Size, Drawing Force, Single and Double - action
draw dies.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Tool Design by Cyril Donaldson, George H LeCain & V C Goold; Publisher: Tata
McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Fundamentals of Tool Design by David Splitler, Jelf Lantrip & D. A. Smith;
Publisher: Society of Manufacturing Engineers.
2. Production Engineering by P.C. Sharma; Publisher: Sultan Chand.
148
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 1 3
(13MED027) MECHANICAL VIBRATIONS
Course Prerequisites: Design of Machine Members, Engineering Mechanics, Maths
Course Objectives:
• Understand and appreciate the importance of vibrations in mechanical design
of machine parts that operate in vibratory conditions.
• Develop linear vibratory models of dynamic systems with changing
complexities (SDOF, MDOF).
• Formulate the differential equations of motion of vibratory systems.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Do vibration analysis in mechanical design of machine parts that operate in
vibratory conditions.
• Arrive at linear mathematical models of real life engineering systems.
• Analyze the mathematical model of linear vibratory system to determine its
response.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Introduction to vibrations & basic concepts
SINGLE DEGREE OF FREEDOM SYSTEMS – I
Undamped and damped free vibrations, Forced vibrations, Coulomb damping,
Response to excitation, Rotating unbalance and support excitation, Vibration isolation
and transmissibility.
UNIT II
SINGLE DEGREE OF FREEDOM SYSTEMS – II
Response to non periodic excitations, Unit impulse, Unit step and unit ramp functions,
Response to arbitrary excitations, The convolution integral, Shock spectrum, System
response by the Laplace Transformation method.
UNIT III
VIBRATION MEASURING INSTRUMENTS
Vibrometers, Velocity meters & Accelerometers.
NUMERICAL METHODS
Rayleigh Stodola matrix iteration, Rayleigh Ritz method and Holzer method.
UNIT IV
TWO DEGREE FREEDOM SYSTEMS
Principal modes, Undamped and damped free and forced vibrations, Undamped
vibration absorbers.
149
MULTI DEGREE FREEDOM SYSTEMS
Matrix formulation, Stiffness and flexibility influence coefficients, Eigen value problem,
Normal modes and their properties, Free and forced vibration by Modal analysis,
Method of matrix inversion, Torsional vibrations of multi-rotor systems and geared
systems, Discrete time systems.
UNIT V
CONTINUOUS SYSTEM
Free vibration of strings, Longitudinal oscillations of bars, Traverse vibrations of
beams, Torsional vibration of shafts.
CRITICAL SPEEDS OF SHAFTS
Critical speeds without and with damping, secondary critical speed.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Fundamentals of Vibrations by Leonard Meirovitch; Publisher: McGraw Hill
2. Mechanical Vibrations by Groower G. K
3. Mechanical Vibrations by Rao V Dukkipati & J. Srinivas, Publisher: Prentice Hall
REFERENCES:
1. Mechanical Vibrations by Tse, Morse and Hinkle
2. Vibration problems in Engineering by S. P. Timoshenko
3. Mechanical Vibrations by S.Graham Kelly; Publisher: Schaum’s Outline, TMH
4. Mechanical Vibrations by Rao S. S., Publisher: Pearson
5. Mechanical Vibrations by V. Ram Murthy
6. Mechanical Vibrations SETO Schaumm Series, Mc Graw Hil Publications.
150
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year–B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(13MTH006) PROBABILITY AND STOCHASTIC PROCESS
Course prerequisites: permutations and combinations, basic statistics
Course Objectives:
• Understand the elementary ideas in basic probability.
• Understand the different types of probability distribution functions
• Understand the basic concepts in estimation theory and test of hypothesis
• Understand the basic concepts of reliability.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Solve problems involving basic probability.
• Apply the knowledge of different probability distributions to Test of
Hypothesis.
• Calculate correlation, regression coefficients.
• Apply the knowledge of different probability distributions to solve problems
reliability.
UNIT- I
Probability and Distributions
Sample space and events, Probability- The axioms of probability, some elementary
theorems, conditional probability, Baye’s theorem. Random variables - discrete and
continuous. Distributions - Binomial, Poisson and Normal distributions–related
properties.
UNIT -II
Correlation and Regression
Coefficient of correlation, regression coefficient, the lines of regression, rank correlation
UNIT- III
Sampling Distributions and Testing of Hypothesis
Sampling distributions, sampling distribution of means (σ known and unknown). Point
estimation, interval estimation. Tests of hypothesis - null hypothesis, alternate
hypothesis, type I, type II errors, critical region. Inferences concerning means and
proportions- Large samples- test of hypothesis for single mean and difference between
the means. Test of hypothesis for the proportions- single and difference between the
proportions, confidence interval for the mean and proportions.
UNIT -IV
Tests of significance- Small samples
Tests of significance-t distributions, confidence interval for the t- distribution, F-
distributions and Chi square distributions.
151
UNIT -V:
Stochastic process: Reliability
Basic concepts of reliability, Normal failure law, Exponential failure law, The Weibull
failure law and reliability of systems.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Probability and Statistics for Engineers – Richard . A.Johanson, 1995, 5th
Edition, Prentice-Hall.
2. Introductory Probability and Statistical Application - Meyer,(1970), 2nd edition,
Oxford and Ibh.
REFERENCES
1. Applied Statistics for Engineers-Jay.L.Devore, Nicholas. R.Famum,
Jimmy.A.Doi, 3rd Edition, Cengage.
2. Practical Reliability Engineering-Patrick o’Connor-Wiley Publications(2002).
3. Reliability in Automotive and Mechanical Engineering –Springer –Verlag(2008).
152
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 1 3
(13MED028) ADVANCED SOLID MECHANICS
Course Prerequisite: Mechanics of solids basics, Engineering Mechanics,
Mathematics.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the concept of stress and strain in 3-D, cauchy’s formula, Mohr’s
circle, Drucker-pager yield criteria, shear effect on inelastic bending etc.
• Understand the concept of torsion, buckling and stability, columns with
eccentric axis loads.
• Understand method of superposition, principal of work, power and energy
and its importance.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Solve solid mechanics problems effectively using software’s.
• Understand the concept of torsion, buckling and stability, columns with
eccentric axis loads.
• Analyze stresses build in various members in a given applications.
UNIT I
THREE DIMENSIONAL STRESSES
Introduction, Stress and Strains in 3-D – Cauchy’s formula, Principal Stress,
hydrostatic stress, deviatoric stress, stress transformations, Mohr circle, octahedral
shear stress, strain energy densities, etc.
THEORIES OF FAILURE
Yield criteria: general concepts – maximum principal stress criterion, maximum
principal strain criterion, and strain-energy density criterion; Yielding of ductile metals –
maximum shear stress (Tresca) criterion, distortional energy density (von mises)
criterion, and effect of hydrostatic stress and the - plane; alternative yield criteria –
mohr-coulomb yield criterion, Drucker-Prager yield criterion, and Hill’s criterion for
orthotropic materials; General yielding – elastic-plastic bending, fully plastic moment,
shear effect on inelastic bending, modulus of rupture, comparison of failure criteria and
interpretation of failure criteria for general yielding.
UNIT II
UNSYMMETRICAL BENDING
Introduction; Doubly symmetric beams with skew loads; Pure bending of unsymmetric
beams; Generalized theory of pure bending; Bending of beams by lateral loads; Shear
centre; Shear stresses in beams of thin-walled open cross sections; Shear centers of
153
thin walled open sections; General theory for shear stresses.
BENDING OF CURVED BEAMS
Introduction; Circumferential stresses in a curved beam – location of neutral axis of
cross section; Radial stresses in curved beams – curved beams made from anisotropic
materials; Correction of circumferential stresses in curved beams having I, T, or similar
cross sections – Bleich’s correction factors; Deflections of curved beams – cross
sections in the form of an I, T, etc.; Statically indeterminate curved beams – fully plastic
versus maximum elastic loads for curved beams.
UNIT III
TORSION
Torsion of Non-circular members, hollow members, thin walled sections; Membrane
Analogy.
COLUMNS
Buckling and stability; Columns with pinned ends; Columns with other support
conditions; Columns with eccentric axis loads; Secant formula; Imperfections in
columns; Elastic and inelastic column behavior; Inelastic buckling; Column design
formulas.
UNIT IV
BEAM ON ELASTIC FOUNDATIONS
General theory; Infinite beam subjected to concentrated load: boundary conditions –
method of superposition, and beam supported on equally spaced discrete elastic
supports; Infinite beam subjected to a distributed load segment – uniformly distributed
load; semi infinite beam subjected to loads at its end; semi infinite beam with
concentrated load near its end; Short beams.
UNIT V
ENERGY METHODS
Introduction; Principal of virtual work; Unit-load method for calculating displacements;
Reciprocal theorems; Strain-energy and complementary energy; Strain-energy
methods; Complementary energy methods; Castigliano’s second theorem; Shear
deflections of beams. Introduction to Photoelasticity.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Advanced Mechanics of Materials (6E) by Arthur P. Boresi and Richard J.
Schmidt; Publisher: John Wiley.
2. Mechanics of Materials by J. M. Gere and S. Timoshenko; Publisher: CBS.
REFERENCES:
1. Strength of Materials (part 2): Advanced Theory and Problems by Stephen
Timoshenko; Publisher: CBS.
2. Engineering Mechanics of Solids by E.P.Popov; Publisher: Pearson
Education.
3. Strength of Materials Schaum’s Series.
154
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME I SEM L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 1 3
(13MED030) REFRIGERATION AND AIR CONDITIONING
Course Prerequisites: Thermodynamics, Heat & Mass Transfer.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the fundamentals of Thermodynamics and its relative laws and effect
on the system.
• Understand the concept of Heat and Mass Transfer on the system.
• Understand the various Thermodynamic cycles used in the Refrigeration and AC
systems
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Develop a system which totally based on the refrigeration concept.
• Apply the basic principles on the Thermodynamics to solve an engineering
problem related to Refrigeration and Air conditioning.
• Select suitable Refrigeration cycle and apply the concept of Heat and Mass
Transfer and obtain the result.
UNIT – I
Introduction to Refrigeration: Necessity and applications – Unit of refrigeration and
C.O.P. – Mechanical Refrigeration – Types of Ideal cycles of refrigeration. Air
Refrigeration: Bell Coleman cycle and Brayton Cycle, Open and Dense air systems –
Actual air refrigeration system problems – Refrigeration needs of Air crafts.
Refrigerants – Desirable properties – classification refrigerants used – Nomenclature
– Ozone Depletion– Global Warming .
UNIT – II
Vapour compression refrigeration – working principle and essential components of
the plant – simple Vapour compression refrigeration cycle – COP – Representation
of cycle on T-S and p-h charts – effect of sub cooling and super heating – cycle
analysis – Actual cycle Influence of various parameters on system performance –
Use of p-h charts – numerical Problems.
System Components : Compressors – General classification – comparison –
Advantages and Disadvantages. Condensers – classification – Working Principles
Evaporators – classification – Working Principles Expansion devices – Types –
Working Principles.
UNIT III
Vapor Absorption System – Calculation of max COP – description and working of
NH3 – water system and Li Br –water ( Two shell & Four shell) System. Principle of
operation Three Fluid absorption system, salient features.
155
Steam Jet Refrigeration System – Working Principle and Basic Components.
Principle and operation of (i) Thermoelectric refrigerator (ii) Vortex tube or Hilsch
tube.
UNIT – IV
Introduction to Air Conditioning: Psychometric Properties & Processes –
Characterization of Sensible and latent heat loads –– Need for Ventilation,
Consideration of Infiltration – Load concepts of RSHF, GSHF- Problems, Concept of
ESHF and ADP.
Requirements of human comfort and concept of effective temperature- Comfort chart
–Comfort Air conditioning – Requirements of Industrial air conditioning , Air
conditioning Load Calculations.
UNIT – V
Air Conditioning systems - Classification of equipment, cooling, heating
humidification and dehumidification, filters, grills and registers, fans and blowers.
Heat Pump – Heat sources – different heat pump circuits.
TEXT BOOKS :
1. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning / CP Arora / TMH.
2. A Course in Refrigeration and Air conditioning / SC Arora & Domkundwar /
Dhanpatrai.
REFERENCES:
1. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning / Manohar Prasad / New Age.
2. Principles of Refrigeration - Dossat / Pearson Education.
3. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning-P.L.Bellaney.
4. Basic Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning – Ananthanarayanan / TMH.
5. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning – R.S. Khurmi & J.K Gupta – S.Chand –
Eurasia Publishing.
156
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 1 3
(13MED031) INTRODUCTION TO AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY AND AIRCRAFT
SYSTEMS
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Mechanics, Machine Design, Fluid Mechanics,
Basic Electricals and Electronics.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the Aircraft industry and basic components of Aircrafts.
• Understand basic electrical, mechanical and electronic equipments of Aircraft.
• Understand principles of flight and flight mechanics, performance and maneuvers.
Course Outcomes: Students will be able to
• Analyze various Aircraft systems.
• Analyze the flow characteristics and forces on air craft structures.
• Analyze the flight characteristics, stability of Aircrafts.
UNIT- I
AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
Evolution and History of Flight, Types Of Aerospace Industry, Key Players in
Aerospace Industry, Aerospace Manufacturing, Industry Supply Chain, Prime
contractors, Tier 1 Suppliers, Key challenges in Industry Supply Chain, OEM Supply
Chain Strategies, Mergers and Acquisitions, Aerospace Industry Trends, Advances in
Engineering/CAD/CAM/CAE Tools and Materials technology, Global and Indian Aircraft
Scenario.
UNIT- II
INTRODUCTION TO AIRCRAFTS
Basic components of an Aircraft, Structural members, Aircraft Axis System, Aircraft
Motions, Control surfaces and High lift Devices. Types of Aircrafts - Lighter than
Air/Heavier than Air Aircrafts Conventional Design Configurations based on Power
Plant Location, Wing vertical location, intake location, Tail Unit Arrangements, Landing
Gear Arrangements. Unconventional Configurations-Biplane, Variable Sweep, Canard
Layout, Twin Boom Layouts, Span loaders, Blended Body Wing Layout, STOL and
STOVL Aircraft, Stealth Aircraft, Advantages and disadvantages of these
Configurations.
UNIT- III
INTRODUCTION TO AIRCRAFT SYSTEM
Types of Aircraft systems, Mechanical systems. Electrical and Electronic Systems.
Auxiliary systems. Mechanical Systems: Environmental control systems (ECS),
Pneumatic systems, Hydraulic systems, Fuel systems, Landing gear systems, Engine
Control Systems, Ice and rain protection systems, Cabin Pressurization and Air
Conditioning Systems, Steering and Brakes Systems Auxiliary Power Unit, Electrical
157
systems: Avionics, Flight controls, Autopilot and Flight Management Systems,
Navigation Systems, Communication, Information systems, Radar System.
UNIT – IV
BASIC PRINCIPLES OF FLIGHT
Significance of speed of Sound, Air speed and Ground Speed, Properties of
Atmosphere, Bernoulli’s Equation, Forces on the airplane, Airflow over wing section,
Pressure Distribution over a wing section, Generation of Lift, Drag, Pitching moments,
Types of Drag, Lift curve, Drag Curve, Lift/Drag Ratio Curve, Factors affecting Lift and
Drag, Center of Pressure and its effects. Aerofoil Nomenclature, Types of Aerofoil,
Wing Section- Aerodynamic Center, Aspect Ratio, Effects of lift, Drag, speed, Air
density on drag.
UNIT – V BASICS OF FLIGHT MECHANICS
Mach Waves, Mach Angles, Sonic and Supersonic Flight and its effects
STABILITY AND CONTROL
Degree of Stability- Lateral, Longitudinal and Directional Stability and controls of
Aircraft. Effects of Flaps and Slats on Lift Coefficients, Control Tabs, Stalling, Landing,
Gliding Turning, Speed of Sound, Mach Numbers, Shock Waves.
AIRCRAFT PERFORMANCE AND MANEUVERS
Power Curves, Maximum and minimum speeds of horizontal flight, Effects of Changes
of Engine Power, Effects of Altitude on Power Curves, Forces acting on a Aeroplane
during a Turn, Loads during a Turn, Correct and incorrect Angles of Bank, Aerobatics,
Inverted Maneuvers, Maneuverability.
REFERENCES:
1. Flight without Formulae by A.C Kermode, Pearson Education,10th Edition.
2. Mechanics of Flight by A.C. Kermode, Pearson Education,5th Edition.
3. Fundamentals of Flight by Shevell, Pearson Education, 2nd Edition.
4. Introduction to Flight by Dave Anderson.
5. Aircraft Systems: Mechanical, Electrical & Avionics Subsystems Integration by Ian
Moir, Allan Seabridge.
6. Aircraft Design-A Conceptual Approach by Daniel P. Raymer, AIAA education
series,6th Edition.
7. Airframe Structural Design by Michael Niu, Conmilit Press, 1988, 2nd Edition.
8. Airframe Stress Analysis and Sizing by Michael Niu, Conmilit Press, 1999, 3rd
Edition.
9. The Elements of Aircraft Preliminary Design by Roger D. Schaufele, Publisher:
Aries.
10. Aircraft Structural Maintenance by Dale Hurst, Publisher: Avotek.
11. Aircraft Maintenance and Repair by Frank Delp, Michael J. Kroes & William A.
Watkins, Glencoe, Publisher: McGraw-Hill.
12. An Introduction to Aircraft Certification; A Guide to Understanding Jaa, Easa and
FAA by Filippo De Florio; Publisher: Butterworth-Heinemann.
158
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED112) CAD/CAM LAB
Course Prerequisites: CAD, CAM and SOM.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the ways in which 2D, 3D, part drawings and assembly drawings
are made using appropriate CAD packages.
• Learn the part programming techniques in turning, milling and drilling
operations.
• Understand the determination of stresses and strains in systems like trusses
and beams.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
(cid:2) Generate part and assembly drawings using CAD packages.
(cid:2) Produce component with different features using CNC machines and
machining centers.
(cid:2) Determine the elastic properties in components of the structures.
12 exercises from the following syllabus:
1. CAD:
i) 2D Drawing using Sketcher workbench – 1 exercise containing atleast
3 drawings
ii) 3D modeling using 3D features – 1 exercise containing atleast
3 models
ii) Assembly and drafting – 1 exercise containing 1
assembly
iv) Surface Modeling – 1 exercise
v) Sheet Metal Working – 1 exercise
Softwares: AutoCAD, IronCAD, CATIA, CREO
2. CAM:
i) Part programming for Turning, Facing, Chamfering, Grooving, Step turning,
Taper turning operations.
ii) Part programming for Point to point motions, Linear motions, Circular
interpolation, Contour motion, Pocket milling - Circular, Rectangular and
Mirror commands.
iii) Part Programming using Fixed or Canned Cycles for Drilling, Peck drilling,
Boring, Tapping, Turning, Facing, Taper turning, Thread cutting.
iv) Generation of tool path, NC part program and its simulation.
v) Machining of small components using CNC Lathe, CNC Mill and CNC
Turning center.
159
Softwares: CNC Offline Simulation, EdgeCAM
3. CAE:
a) Determination of deflection and stresses in 2D and 3D trusses and
beams.
b) Determination Principal/ Von-mises stresses and deflections, in plane
stress/ plane strain/ axisymmetric models.
c) Determination of stresses in 3D and shell structures.
Softwares: Ansys
160
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech. ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED113)PRODUCTION DRAWING PRACTICE LAB
Course Prerequisites: Engineering drawing and Machine Drawing
Course Objectives:
• Understanding of conventional representations of various materials and machine
components.
• Understanding limits, fits and tolerances and their representation in drawings.
• Understand part drawings procedures using CAD software
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Represent various materials and machine components on part drawings
• Use limits fits and tolerances on drawings along with dimensions.
• Produce part and detailed drawings of various assemblies using cad.
UNIT – I
Conventional representation of Materials – conventional representation of parts –
screw joints, welded joints, springs, gears, electrical, hydraulic and pneumatic circuits –
methods of indicating notes on drawings.
UNIT – II
Limits and Fits : Types of fits, exercises involving selection / interpretation of fits and
estimation of limits from tables.
UNIT – III
Form and Positional Tolerances : Introduction and indication of the tolerances of
form and position on drawings, deformation of runout and total runout and their
indication.
UNIT – IV
Surface roughness and its indication : Definitions – finishes obtainable from various
manufacturing processes, recommended surface roughness on mechanical
components.
UNIT – V
Heat treatment and surface treatment symbols used on drawings.
UNIT – VI
Detailed and Part drawings: Drawing of parts from assembly drawings with
indications of size, tolerances, Roughness, form and position errors etc.
UNIT – VII
Part drawing using computer aided drafting by CAD software
161
TEXT BOOKS :
1. Production and Drawing – K.L. Narayana & P. Kannaiah/ New Age.
2. Machine Drawing with Auto CAD- Pohit and Ghosh, PE.
REFERENCE :
1. Geometric dimensioning and tolerancing- James D. Meadows/ B.S
Publications.
2. Engineering Metrology, R.K. Jain, Khanna Publications.
162
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(13MED114) AUTOMATION & ROBOTICS LABORATORY
Course Prerequisites: Manufacturing processes, fluid and electric controllers, robot
programming, mathematics, Kinematics of machinery.
Course Objectives:
• To conduct the experiments for understanding the working of hydraulic,
pneumatic, electric and electronic controls used in automation.
• To understand the concepts of PLC’s, microcontrollers and automated
transfer devices in automation by conducting experiments.
• To demonstrate the robotics manipulator motions using the robotic
programming and languages.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Analyze the working of different controls used in automation.
• Able to design and analyze the hydraulic/pneumatic circuits.
• Able to write a robot program.
Experiments to demonstrate:
1. Limit stops and CAM control devices
2. Pneumatic, hydraulic, electrical systems in automation
3. Microprocessor applications in automated systems.
4. Robotics Systems and Programming
5. Automated transfer devices.
6. Training on Programmable Logic Controllers
163
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
4 0 4
(13MED032) INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING AND MANAGEMENT
Course Prerequisite: Knowledge of Manufacturing, General Management, Business
Economics, Mathematics & Statistics
Course Objectives:
• Perform as industry leaders in the global marketplace, capable of
successfully planning, controlling, and implementing large-scale projects.
• Flourish and work effectively in diverse, multicultural environments
emphasizing the application of teamwork and communication skills.
• Understand and apply the principles of Management, science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics involving industry-relevant problems.
• Maintain high standards of professional and ethical responsibility.
• Contribute to the profitable growth of industrial economic sectors by using IE
analytical tools, effective computational approaches, and systems thinking
methodologies.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Apply knowledge of Management, mathematics, science, and engineering.
• Design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within
realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical,
health and safety, manufacturability and sustainability.
• Communicate effectively.
• Function on multidisciplinary teams.
• Acquire knowledge on contemporary & emerging issues important to
professional practice.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING AND MANAGEMENT
Concept of Industrial Engineering (I.E),History and Development of I.E, Role of I.E,
Applications of I.E, Production Management vs I.E, Principles of Management,
Functions of Management, Taylor's Scientific Management, Maslow's Theory of
Human Needs, Leadership Styles, Principles of Organization, Types of Organization
Structures their Merits and Demerits, Entrepreneurship.
UNIT II
PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT
Plant Location, Principles of Plant Layout, Different Types of Plant Layouts, different
Types of Production Systems, Travel Chart Technique, Simple Problems on Assembly
Line Balancing.
164
Production Planning and Control: Production Cycle, Product Design and Development,
Production Planning and Control Techniques, Simple problems.
PLANT MAINTENANCE
Objectives and Types, Equipment Selection, Maintenance Planning.
Materials Handling- Principles, Concept of Unit Load, Containerization, Selection of
Material Handling Equipment, Applications of Belt Conveyors, Cranes, Forklift Trucks
in Industry.
UNIT III
WORK STUDY
Concept of Productivity, Method Study - Basic steps in Method Study, Process Charts,
Diagrams, Models and Templates, Principles of Motion Economy, Micro Motion Study,
Therbligs, SIMO Chart, PMTS, MOST, Work Measurement - Stop Watch Procedure of
Time Study, Performance Rating, Allowances, Work Sampling, Simple Problems,
Ergonomics.
MATERIALS MANAGEMENT
Introduction, Purchasing, Objectives of Purchasing Department, Buying Techniques,
Purchase Procedure, Stores and Material Control, Inventory Control, EOQ
Model(Simple Problems), Supply Chain Management.
Quality Control - Statistical Quality Control, Control Charts for Variables and Attribute,
Simple Problems, Acceptance Sampling, Deming's Contribution to Quality. Total
Quality Management, Taguchi’s Quality Engineering, Value Analysis and Value
Engineering
UNIT IV
MARKETING
Functions of Marketing, Marketing Mix, Product Life Cycle. Channels of Distribution
and Sales Management.
Manufacturing planning: MRP, MRP-II, JIT, CIM.
UNIT V
HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (HRM)
Concepts of HRM, Basic Functions of HR Manager: Manpower Planning, Recruitment,
Selection, Training and Development, Placement, Wage and Salary Administration,
Promotion, Transfer, Separation, Performance Appraisal.
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
Trade Unions, Industrial Disputes, Strikes, Lock-Out, Picketing, Gherao, Settlement of
Industrial Disputes, Collective Bargaining, Industrial Dispute Act 1947 and Factories
Act 1948.
165
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Aryasri: Management Science, TMH, New Delhi, 2009.
2. Industrial Engineering and Management, by Dr. O. P .Khanna.
REFERENCES:
1. Principles of Management by Koontz and ODonnel.
2. Production and Operations Management by Everette Adam and Ronald Ebert.
3. Operations Management by John McClain and Joseph Thames.
4. Industrial Engineering and Production Management by Tulsa, S. Chand and Co.
166
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 1 3
(13MED033) UNCONVENTIONAL MACHINING PROCESSES
Course Prerequisites: Manufacturing Technology & Engineering materials
Course Objectives:
• Understand the classification of various Non-Traditional machining processes
and their applicability to various metals, non - metals & alloys
• Understand the working principles of mechanical energy based material
removal processes
• Understand the Working principles of thermal energy and electrical energy
based material removal processes
• Understand the working principles of chemical and electro-chemical based
material removal processes
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Gain the knowledge on various Non-Traditional machining methods which are
applicable for difficult-to-cut materials, defense and aerospace sectors
• Decide on the process parameters to be adopted and applicability of various
materials that are suitable for mechanical energy based machining processes
• Decide on the process parameters to be adopted and applicability of various
materials that are suitable for electrical and thermal based machining
processes
• Decide on the process parameters to be adopted and applicability of various
materials that are suitable for chemical and electro-chemical energy based
machining processes
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Unconventional Machining Process, Need, Classification, Brief overview of all
techniques, Study of material removal phenomena.
UNIT II
MECHANICAL ENERGY BASED PROCESSES
Abrasive Jet Machining – Water Jet Machining – Abrasive Water Jet Machining-
Ultrasonic Machining (AJM, WJM, AWJM, USM). Working Principles – equipment used
– Process parameters – MRR – Applications.
167
UNIT III
ELECTRICAL ENERGY BASED PROCESSES
Electric Discharge Machining (EDM) - working Principles-equipments-Process
Parameters-MRR- electrodes Used – Power Circuits – Dielectric – Flushing –
Applications, Wire Cut EDM- Applications.
UNIT IV
CHEMICAL AND ELECTRO-CHEMICAL ENERGY BASED PROCESSES
Chemical Machining and Electro-Chemical machining (CHM and ECM)-Etchants-
maskants -techniques of applying maskants-Process Parameters – MRR-Applications-
Principles of ECM-equipments-MRR-Processes Parameters.
UNIT V
THERMAL ENERGY BASED PROCESSES
Laser Beam Machining (LBM), Plasma Arc Machining (PAM) and Electron Beam
Machining (EBM), Principles-Equipment-Process Parameters - Applications.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Advanced Machining Processes by Vijay K. Jain; Publisher: Allied Publishers.
REFERENCES:
1. Nontraditional Manufacturing Processes by Benedict. G. F; Publisher: Marcel
Dekker.
2. Advanced Methods of Machining by McGeough; Publisher: Chapman and Hall,
London.
3. Unconventional Machining Processes by P. K. Mishra; Publisher: Narosa.
168
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 1 3
(13MED034) NANO SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics and chemistry.
Course Objectives:
• Understands the Nanomaterials and their properties.
• Understands the different nanostructures of carbon and its properties and
their properties.
• Understands the applications of carbon nanotubes.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Know the importance and challenges of Nanoscience and Technology.
• Apply the fundamental knowledge science to characterize the Nano
Materials.
• Synthesize carbon Nano tubes.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO NANO
Importance, Definition and scope, Nano size, challenges, applications. Electrons,
Atoms and Ions, Molecules, Metals, Other Materials.
HISTORY OF NANO-SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
Nano magnetism as a case study; Fundamental terms (Physics & Chemistry) in nano-
science and technology; Feynman’s perspective; Scaling laws pertaining to mechanics,
optics, electromagnetism; Importance of Quantum mechanics, statistical mechanics
and chemical kinetics in nano-science and technology;
UNIT II
CLASSIFICATION OF NANO MATERIALS
Scientific basis for top-down and bottom-up approaches to synthesize Nanomaterials;
How to characterize Nanomaterials? Electrons in Nanomaterials.
TOOLS OF THE NANOSCIENCE
Tools for Measuring Nanostructures, Tools to Make Nanostructures. Nano scale
Biostructures, Energy Capture, Transformation, and Storage Optics, Magnets,
Fabrication, Electronics, Electronics Again Modelling.
UNIT III
NANO-BIOTECHNOLOGY
Bio-molecules; Biosensors; Nanomaterials in drug delivery; Working in clean room
environments; Safety and related aspects of Nanomaterials.
169
UNIT IV
CARBON NANOTUBES & STRUCTURES
Carbon Nano structures and types of Carbon Nano tubes, growth mechanisms of
carbon nanotubes. Carbon clusters and Fullerenes, Synthesis of CNTs by Flame, CVD,
Laser & Arc-discharge process.
UNIT V
Lithium & Hydrogen adsorption & storages, Fuel cell applications and energy storage,
Chemical Sensors applications of CNTs
TEXT BOOKS & REFERENCES:
1. Nanotechnology Fundamentals and Applications- by Manasi Karkare I.K
International.
2. Nanoscience and Nanotechnology in engineering – by Vijay K Varadan A
Sivathanupillai Word scientific.
3. Nanotechnology applications to telecommunications and networking By Daniel
Minoli, Wiley Interscience.
4. Nanotechnology Principles and Applications by Sulabha Kulkarni.
170
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 1 3
(13MED036) DESIGN FOR MANUFACTURING
Course Prerequisites: Production Technology, Metallurgy & Material Science, Design
Concepts, Automation, Machine Tools.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the design process and materials and their interrelationship.
• Understand design rules for various processes like machining, castings,
metal joining, extrusion and sheet metal work.
• Understand manual and automatic assembly transfer systems.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Design components for ease of manufacturing depending on
manufacturing process.
• Select materials conforming to design and having ease of manufacture.
• Design for manual and automatic - assembly transfer systems.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Design philosophy, Steps in design process, General design rules for
manufacturability, Basic principles of designing for economical production, Creativity in
design - Design aspects covering environmental concerns, power consumption,
operational safety and fool proofing.
MATERIALS
Selection of materials for design, commonly used metal sections, Criteria for material
selection, Material selection interrelationship with process selection, Process Selection
charts.
UNIT II
MACHINING PROCESS
Overview of various machining processes, General design rules for machining,
Dimensional tolerance and surface roughness, Design for machining ease,
Redesigning of components for machining ease with suitable examples, General
design recommendations for machined parts.
METAL CASTING
Appraisal of various casting processes, Selection of casting process, General design
considerations for casting, Casting tolerances, Use of solidification simulation in
casting design, Product design rules for sand casting.
171
UNIT III
METAL JOINING
Appraisal of various welding processes, Factors in design of weldments, General
design guidelines - Pre and post treatment of welds, Effects of thermal stresses in weld
joints, Design of brazed joints.
FORGING
Design factors for Forging, Closed die forging design, Parting lines of die drop forging
die design, General design recommendations.
EXTRUSION AND SHEET METAL WORK
Design guidelines for extruded sections, Design principles for Punching, Blanking,
Bending, Deep Drawing, Keeler Goodman Forming Line Diagram, Component design
for Blanking.
UNIT-IV
ASSEMBLY ADVANTAGES
Development of the assembly process, Choice of assembly method, Assembly
advantages, Social effects of automation.
AUTOMATIC ASSEMBLY TRANSFER SYSTEMS
Continuous transfer, Intermittent transfer, Indexing mechanisms and operator - paced
free transfer machine.
UNIT-V
DESIGN OF MANUAL ASSEMBLY
General design guidelines for manual assembly, Development of the systematic DFA
methodology, Assembly efficiency, Classification system for manual handling,
Classification system for manual insertion and fastening, Effect of part symmetry on
handling time, Effect of part thickness and size on handling time, Effect of weight on
handling time.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Assembly Automation and Product Design by Geoffrey Boothroyd, Publisher:
Marcel Dekker Inc.,
2. Engineering Design – Material and Processing Approach by George E. Dieter,
Publisher: McGraw Hill Intl.
REFERENCES:
1. Hand Book of Product Design by Geoffrey Boothroyd, Publisher: Marcel and
Dekker
2. Computer Aided Assembly Planning by A. Delchambre, Publisher: Springer
172
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 1 3
(13MED037) PRINCIPLES OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Course Prerequisites: General Management & Financial Accounting concepts,
Enthusiasm towards Entrepreneurship
Course Objectives:
• Understand the entrepreneurial process involved in creating, managing a
new enterprise.
• Understand the background and tools necessary to participate in
the entrepreneurial process
• Understand fundamental business framework.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Identify the key steps required for exploiting an innovative idea or
opportunity to develop an existing business, launch a new venture, or initiate
a social enterprise.
• Recognize and evaluate business opportunities under dynamic economic
settings.
• Identify and solve entrepreneurial issues while starting an enterprise.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Definition of Entrepreneur, Entrepreneurial Traits, Entrepreneur vs. Manager,
Entrepreneur vs intrepreneur, The Entrepreneurial decision process, Role of
Entrepreneurship in Economic Development, Ethics and Social responsibility of
Entrepreneurs, Opportunities for Entrepreneurs in India and abroad, Woman as
Entrepreneur.
UNIT II
CREATING AND STARTING THE VENTURE
Sources of new Ideas, Methods of generating ideas, creating ideas and problem
solving, product planning and development process.
UNIT III
THE BUSINESS PLAN, NEW VENTURE EXPANSION STRATEGIES AND ISSUES
Nature and scope of Business plan, Writing Business Plan, Evaluating Business plans,
Using and implementing business plans. Marketing plan, financial plan and the
organizational plan, Launching formalities. Features and evaluation of joint ventures,
mergers, acquisitions, franchising. Public issues, rights issues, bonus issues and stock
splits.
173
UNIT IV
FINANCING AND MANAGING THE NEW VENTURE
Sources of capital, Record keeping, Recruitment, Motivating and leading teams,
Financial controls, Marketing and sales controls, E-commerce and Entrepreneurship,
Internet advertising.
UNIT V
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT TO ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND LABOUR
LEGISLATION
Role of Directorate of Industries, District Industries Centers (DICs), Industrial
Development Corporation (IDC), State Financial Corporation (SFCs), Small Scale
Industries Development Corporations (SSIDCs), Khadi and Village Industries
Commission (KVIC), Technical Consultancy Organization (TCO), Small Industries
Service Institute (SISI), National Small Industries Corporation (NSIC), Small Industries
Development Bank of India(SIDBI). Salient Provision under Indian Factories Act,
Industrial Disputes Act, Employees State Insurance Act, Workmen's Compensation Act
and payment of Bonus Act.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Robert Hirsch and Michael Peters: Entrepreneurship, TMH, 5th Edition.
2. Dillinger: Entrepreneurship, 4/e, Pearson, 2004.
REFERENCES:
1. Vasant Desai: Dynamics of Entrepreneurial Development and management,
Himalaya Publishing House, 2004.
2. Harvard Business Review on Entrepreneurship, HBR Paper Back, 1999.
3. Robert J.Calvin: Entrepreneurial Management, TMH, 2004.
4. Gurmeet Naroola: The Entrepreneurial Connection, TMH, 2001.
5. Bolton and Thompson: Entrepeneurs- Talent, Temperament, Technique,
Butterworth Heinemann, 2001.
6. Agarwal: Indian Economy, Wishwa Prakashan 2005.
7. Duttand Sundaram: Indian Economy. S. Chand, 2005.
8. Srivastava: Industrial Relations and Labour Laws, Vikas, 2005.
9. Aruna Kaulgud: Entrepreneurship Management by Vikas Publishing House,
2003.
11. Thomas W. Zimmererand Norman M. Scarborough: Essential of
Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management, PHI, 4/e, 2005.
12. Mary Coulter: Entrepreneurship in Action, PHI, 2/e, 2005.
13. Kaplan: Patterns of Entrepreneurship, Willey, 2005.
14. ND Kapoor: Industrial Law, Sultan Chandand Sons, 2005.
174
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 1 3
(13CSE077) INTERACTIVE COMPUTER GRAPHICS
Pre-requisites: C language, Engineering Graphics.
Course Objectives:
• Define computer graphics and explain applications of computer graphics and
its systems.
• Illustrate basics of application programming interface (API) implementation
based on graphics pipeline approach.
• Enabling students to have practical experience in the production of 2D, 3D
Computer animation and Modeling techniques using various transformations.
• Explain the necessary knowledge and skills to extend core compositing and
postproduction work using visual effects.
Course Outcomes:
• Apply the relevant mathematics of computer graphics and be able to write
basic graphics application programs including animation
• Use the basic aspects of 2D image representations and transformations
• Implement different methods of digitally representing 3D Object
representations and transformations.
• Name the traditional principles of visible surface detection methods that can
be applied to computer animation.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION:
Introduction, Application area of Computer graphics, Overview of graphic system,
Display devices, Raster-scan systems, Random Scan Systems, Graphics Monitors and
Work stations and Input devices.
UNIT II
OUTPUT PRIMITIVES:
Points and lines, Line drawing algorithms, Mid-point circle algorithm.
FILLED AREA PRIMITIVES:
Scan-line polygon fill algorithm, Boundary-fill and flood-fill algorithm
UNIT III
2-D GEOMETRICAL TRANSFORMATIONS:
Translation, scaling, rotation, reflection and shear transformation matrix
representations and homogeneous co-ordinates, composite transformations,
transformations between coordinates
2-D VIEWING:
175
The viewing pipe-line, Viewing coordinate reference frame, Window to view-port
coordinate transformations, Viewing function, Cohen-Sutherland and Cyrus-beck line
clipping algorithms, Sutherland-Hodgeman polygon clipping algorithm.
UNIT IV
3-D OBJECT REPRESENTATION:
Polygon surfaces, Quadric surfaces, Spline representation, Hermite curve, Bezier
curve and B-spline curve, Bezier and B-spline surfaces, Basic illumination models,
Shading algorithms
3-D GEOMETRIC TRANSFORMATIONS:
Translation, Rotation, Scaling, Reflection and Shear transformation, Composite
transformations
UNIT V
VISIBLE SURFACE DETECTION METHODS:
Classification, Back-face detection, Depth-buffer, Scan-line, Depth sorting, Area sub-
division and octree methods
COMPUTER ANIMATION:
Design of Animation sequence, general computer animation functions, raster
animation, computer animation languages, key frame systems, motion specifications.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Computer Graphics C version by Donald Hearn & M. Pauline Baker;
Publisher: Pearson/PHI
2. Computer Graphics Principles and Practice / 2 edition in C/ Foley, VanDam,
Feiner and Hughes/Pearson Education
3. CAD/CAM - Theory and Practice / Ibrahim Zeid / TMH
REFERENCES:
1. Computer Graphics/ 2 edition / Zhig and kiang, Roy Plastic, Schaum's
outlines/TMH.
2. Procedural elements for Computer Graphics / David F Rogers / Tata Mc
Graw hill/2nd edition.
3. Principles of Interactive Computer Graphics/Neuman and Sproul/TMH.
4. Principles of Computer Graphics/Shalini Govil
176
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME / AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 1 3
(13MED038) PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE MANAGEMENT
Course Prerequisite: Mathematics, computers and use of software’s packages.
Course Objectives:
• Understand PLM Strategies.
• Understand the principles of product life cycle.
• Understand business process.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Forecast the demand of the product.
• Develop a new product strategy.
• Predict the life cycle of product.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO PLM
Need for PLM, opportunities and benefits of PLM, different views of PLM, components
of PLM, phases of PLM, PLM feasibility study, PLM visioning.
PLM STRATEGIES
Industrial strategies, strategy elements, its identification, selection and implementation,
change management for PLM.
UNIT II
PRODUCT DATA MANAGEMENT (PDM)
PDM systems and importance, reason for implementing a PDM system, financial
justification of PDM, barriers to PDM implementation.
PRODUCT DESIGN
Engineering design, organization and decomposition in product design, product design
process, methodical evolution in product design, concurrent engineering, design for 'X'
and design central development model. Strategies for recovery at end of life, recycling,
human factors in product design. Modeling and simulation in product design.
UNIT III
NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
Structuring new product development, building decision support system, Estimating
market opportunities for new product, new product financial control, implementing new
product development, market entry decision, launching and tracking new product
program, Concept of redesign of product.
177
UNIT IV
TECHNOLOGY FORECASTING
Future mapping, invocating rates of technological change, methods of technology
forecasting such as relevance trees, morphological methods and mission flow diagram,
combining forecast of different technologies, uses in manufacture alternative.
UNIT V
PRODUCT CONCEPTION PROCESS
Business processes, data-process relationship, from the idea to waste disposal
Product structures: Variant management, product configuration, material master data,
product description data, Data models, Life cycles of individual items, status of items.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Fabio Giudice, Guido La Rosa, Product Design for the environment-A life cycle
approach, Taylor and Francis 2006.
2. Robert J. Thomas, NPD: Managing and forecasting for strategic processes.
3. Martins Joseph, Technological Forecasting for decision Making, 2nd edition, North
Holland.
REFERENCES:
1. John Stark, Springer-Verlag, ”Product Lifecycle Management Paradigm for 21st
century Product Realization”, London, 3rd printing (2006). 441 pp., ISBN: 1-
85233-810-5.
2. Product Lifecycle Management, Michael Grieves, Tata McGraw Hill
178
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 1 3
(13MED039) PLANT LAYOUT AND MATERIAL HANDLING SYSTEMS
Course Prerequisite: Knowledge of manufacturing, Operations Research.
Course Objectives:
• Understand plant layout system, its types and software tools used.
• Identify and learn elements of various material handling systems.
• Understand the benefit of an efficient material handling system and storage
system
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Design an appropriate plant layout for a plant.
• Flexible Plant layout to accommodate changes in product volume or product
type.
• Recommended improvements to existing plant layouts from the stand point of
material handling and product flow.
UNIT I
PLANT LAYOUTS
Fundamentals of plant layouts, Classification of layout, Advantages and limitations of
different layouts. Layout design procedures. Process Layout and Product Layout:
Comparison, Selection, Specification, Implementation and follow up.
UNIT II
Group Layout and Fixed Position Layout, Quadratic assignment model, Branch and
bound method. Software tools used for making plant layouts – ALDEP, CORELAP,
CRAFT; Case studies
UNIT III
ELEMENTS OF MATERIAL HANDLING SYSTEM
Importance; Terminology; Objectives and benefits of better material handling;
Principles and features of Material Handling System; Interrelationships between
material handling and plant layout; Physical facilities and other organizational
functions; Classification of material handling equipments.
SELECTION OF MATERIAL HANDLING EQUIPMENTS
Factors affecting for selection; Material handling equation; Choices of material handling
equipment; General analysis procedures; Basic analytical techniques; The unit load
concept; Selection of suitable types of systems for applications; Activity cost data and
economic analysis for design of components of material handling systems; Functions
and parameters affecting service; Packing and storage of materials.
179
UNIT IV
HOISTS
Drives for hoisting; Components and hoisting mechanisms; Rail traveling components
and mechanisms; Hoisting gear operation during transient motion; Selecting the motor
rating and determining breaking torque for hoisting mechanisms.
CRANES
Hand-propelled and electrically driven E.O.T. overhead traveling cranes; Traveling
mechanisms of cantilever and monorail cranes; Design considerations for structures of
rotary cranes with fixed radius; Fixed post and overhead traveling cranes; Stability of
stationary rotary and traveling rotary cranes.
ASRS
Introduction to ASRS and AGVS
UNIT V
LOAD LIFTING ATTACHMENTS
Load chains and types of ropes used in material handling system; Forged, Standard
and ramshorn hooks; Crane grabs and clamps; Grab buckets; Electromagnet; Design
consideration for conveyor belts; Application of attachments.
STUDY OF SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENTS USED FOR MATERIAL STORAGE
Objectives of storage; Bulk material handling; Gravity flow of solids through slides and
chutes; Storage in bins and hoppers; Belt conveyors; Bucket-elevators; Screw
conveyors; Vibratory conveyors; Cabin conveyors; Mobile racks etc.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Operations Management A Quantitative Approach by P. B. Mahapatra, Publisher:
Prentice Hall International.
2. Operations Management by S. Anil Kumar, N. Suresh, Publisher: New Age
Publishers.
3. Material Handling Equipment by N. Rudenko; Publisher: Peace publishers.
4. Facility Layout, Location and Analytical Approach by R. L. Francis, L. F. McLinnis
Jr., White; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
5. Aspects of Material Handling by Dr. K. C. Arora & Shinde; Publisher: Lakshmi
Publications.
180
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 1 3
(13MED040) COMPUTATIONAL FLUID DYNAMICS
Course Prerequisite: C Programming skills, Numerical Methods, Fluid
Mechanics.
Course Objectives:
• Understand different methods involved in solving problem numerically.
• Formulate different kinds of physical problems with the different schemes and
boundary conditions.
• Develop a code in a programming language to numerically solve a practical
problem.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Solve fluid flow and heat transfer problems using numerical methods &
Programming.
• Conduct the stability analysis and check the applicability of different
schemes.
• Write algorithms to solve the complex non linear equations numerically and
able to do a project demonstrating your understanding.
UNIT-I
ELEMENTARY DETAILS IN NUMERICAL TECHNIQUES
Number system and errors, representation of integers, fractions, floating point
arithmetic, loss of significance and error propagation, condition for instability,
computational methods for error estimation, convergence of sequences.
APPLIED NUMERICAL METHODS
Solution of a system of simultaneous Linear Algebraic Equations, iterative schemes of
Matrix Inversion, Direct Methods for Matrix inversion, Direct Methods for banded
matrices.
UNIT - II
FINITE DIFFERENCE APPLICATIONS IN HEAT CONDUCTION AND CONVECTION
Heat conduction, steady heat conduction in a rectangular geometry, transient heat
conduction, finite difference application in convective heat transfer, closure.
Finite Differences, discretization, consistency, stability, and Fundamentals of fluid flow
modeling: Introduction, elementary finite difference quotients, implementation aspects
of finite-difference equations, consistency, explicit and implicit methods.
181
UNIT - III
INTRODUCTION TO FIRST ORDER WAVE EQUATION
Stability of hyperbolic and elliptic equations, fundamentals of fluid flow modeling,
conservative property, the upwind scheme.
UNIT - IV
REVIEW OF EQUATIONS GOVERNING FLUID FLOW AND HEAT TRANSFER
Introduction, conservation of mass, Newton’s second law of motion, expanded forms of
Navier-stokes equations, conservation of energy principle, special forms of the Navier-
stokes equations.
UNIT-V
FINITE VOLUME METHOD
Approximation of surface integrals, volume integrals, interpolation and differentiation
practices, upwind interpolation, linear interpolation and quadratic interpolation.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Numerical heat transfer and fluid flow / Suhas V. Patankar/Hemashava
Publishers Corporation &McGraw Hill.
2. Computational Fluid Flow and Heat Transfer/ Muralidaran/Narosa Publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Computational Fluid Dynamics: Basics with applications/John D. Anderson/
McGraw Hill.
2. Fundamentals of Computational Fluid Dynamics/Tapan K. Sengupta /
Universities Press.
3. Introduction to Theoretical and Computational Fluid Dynamics/C.
Pozrikidis/Oxford University Press/2nd Edition.
182
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 1 3
(13MED042) METAL CASTING TECHNOLOGY
Course Prerequisite: Production Technology
Course Objectives:
• Understand various casting processes and their application
• Understand the use of patterns and their design
• Understand the design of runner, riser and gating systems and allowances to
be provided.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Select appropriate casting process for a component meeting design
specifications.
• Design a part for casting and design a pattern based on the process
• Apply dynamic programming problem solving and simulation models.
UNIT – I
PATTERN AND FOUNDRY SAND
Foundry as manufacturing process- Types of patterns- Pattern Materials- Pattern
Allowances- Pattern Layout, Pattern making- Various sands- Testing of foundry sand:
Strength Permeability, Moisture Content.
UNIT – II
MOULDING METHODS
Moulding methods: Green sand moulding- dry sand moulding- no bake moulding- shell
moulding- Investment casting- Permanent moulding- die casting and Centrifugal
casting. Modern moulding methods: Rheocasting- Thixocasting and Squeeze casting.
UNIT – III
GATING AND RISERING
Solidification- Gates- their functions, design of gating system- Risers- their functions-
design
UNIT – IV
MELTING FURNACES
Constructional details - Operation of crucible furnaces, Reverberatory furnaces-
Cupola, Rotary furnace – Core type and Coreless type Induction furnaces - Arc furnace
(direct and indirect arc furnaces).
UNIT – V
FETTLING AND INSPECTION
Removal of gates and risers, Grinding, Shot blasting and finishing, Inspection, Casting
defects, Remedies.
183
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Principles of Metal Casting by Heine R. W, Loper C.R & Rosenthal P.C; Publisher:
Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Principles of Foundry Technology by Jain P. L; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Metal Casting Principles and Practice by Ramana Rao T.V; Publisher: New Age.
2. Foundry Technology by Beeley P. R; Publisher: Butterworth.
3. Foundry Engineering by Srinivasan N. K., Publisher: Khanna.
4. Casting Vol. 15 by ASM Metals Hand Book; Publisher: ASM International.
184
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 1 3
(13MED043) DESIGN OF AIRCRAFT STRUCTURES
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Mechanics, Theory of Machines, Machine
Design and Manufacturing Technology
Course Objectives:
• Understand design process and design of Aircraft structures.
• Understand materials and manufacturing processes applicable to Aircraft
industry.
• Understand maintenance of Aircrafts and criteria of certification of Aircrafts.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Design and analyze Aircraft structure.
• Decide material and manufacturing process applicable to Aircraft industry.
• Design maintenance programs for Aircrafts.
UNIT-I
OVERVIEW OF THE AIRCRAFT DESIGN PROCESS
Introduction, Phases of Aircraft Design, Aircraft Conceptual Design Process,
Conceptual Stage, Preliminary Design, Detailed Design, Design Methodologies.
FUNDAMENTALS OF STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS
Review of Hooke’s Law, Principal stresses, Equilibrium and Compatibility, Determinate
Structures, St Venant’s Principle, Conservation of Energy, Stress Transformation,
Stress Strain Relations.
UNIT- II
INTRODUCTION TO AIRCRAFT STRUCTURES
Types of Structural members of Fuselage and wing section Ribs, Spars, Frames,
Stringers, Longeron, Splices, Sectional Properties of structural members and their
loads, Types of structural joints, Type of Loads on structural joints.
AIRCRAFT LOADS
Aerodynamic Loads, Inertial Loads, Loads due to engine, Actuator Loads, Maneuver
Loads, VN diagrams, Gust Loads, Ground Loads, Ground conditions, Miscellaneous
Loads.
UNIT-III
AIRCRAFT MATERIALS AND MANUFACTURING PROCESSES
Material selection criteria, Aluminum Alloys, Titanium Alloys, Steel Alloys, Magnesium
Alloys, copper Alloys, Nimonic Alloys, Non Metallic Materials, Composite Materials,
Use of Advanced materials Smart materials, Manufacturing of A/C structural members,
185
Overview of Types of manufacturing processes for Composites, Sheet metal
Fabrication ,Machining, Welding, Superplastic Forming and Diffusion Bonding.
UNIT-IV
STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS OF AIRCRAFT STRUCTURES
Theory of Plates- Analysis of plates for bending, stresses due to bending, Plate
deflection under different end conditions, Strain energy due to bending of circular,
rectangular plates, Plate buckling, Compression buckling, shear buckling, Buckling due
to in plane bending moments, Analysis of stiffened panels in buckling, Rectangular
plate buckling, Analysis of Stiffened panels in Post buckling, Post buckling under
shear, Sample Exercises.
Theory of Shells-Analysis of Shell Panels for Buckling, Compression loading, Shear
Loading / Shell Shear Factor, Circumferential Buckling Stress, Sample Exercises.
Theory of Beams-Symmetric Beams in Pure Bending, Deflection of beams,
Unsymmetrical Beams in Bending, Plastic Bending of beams, Shear Stresses due to
Bending in Thin Walled Beams, Bending of Open Section Beams, Bending of Closed
Section Beams, Shear Stresses due to Torsion in Thin Walled Beams. Sample
Exercises.
Theory of Torsion- Shafts of Non-Circular Sections, Torsion in Closed Section Beams,
Torsion in Open Section Beams, Multi Cell Sections, Sample Exercises.
UNIT-V
AIRWORTHINESS AND AIRCRAFT CERTIFICATION
Definition, Airworthiness Regulations, Regulatory Bodies, Type certification, General
Requirements, Requirements Related to Aircraft Design Covers, Performance and
Flight Requirements, Airframe Requirements, Landing Requirements, Fatigue and
Failsafe requirements, Emergency Provisions, Emergency Landing requirements.
AIRCRAFT STRUCTURAL REPAIR
Types of Structural damage, Nonconformance, Rework, Repair, Allowable damage
Limit, Repairable Damage Limit, Overview of ADL Analysis, Types of Repair, Repair
Considerations and best practices.
REFERENCES:
1. Flight without Formulae by A.C Kermode, Pearson Education,10th Edition.
2. Mechanics of Flight by A.C Kermode, Pearson Education,5th Edition.
3. Fundamentals of Flight, Shevell, Pearson Education, 2nd Edition.
4. Introduction to Flight by Dave Anderson.
5. Aircraft Systems: Mechanical, Electrical and Avionics Subsystems Integration
by Ian moir, Allan Seabridge.
6. Aircraft Design - A Conceptual Approach by Daniel P.Raymer, AIAA
education series,6th Edition.
7. Airframe Structural Design by Michael Niu, Conmilit Press, 1988,2nd Edition.
8. Airframe Stress Analysis and Sizing by Michael Niu, Conmilit Press, 1999,3rd
Edition.
186
9. The Elements of Aircraft Preliminary Design – Roger D. Schaufele, Aries
Publications, 2000.
10. Aircraft Structural Maintenance by Dale Hurst, Avotek publishers, 2nd Edition,
2006.
11. Aircraft Maintenance and Repair by Frank Delp, Michael J. Kroes & William
A. Watkins, Glencoe and McGraw-Hill,6th Edition, 1993.
12. An Introduction to Aircraft Certification; A Guide to Understanding Jaa, Easa
and FAA by Filippo De Florio, Butterworth-Heinemann.
187
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech. M.E. II-Sem L T/P/D C
Elective V 3 1 3
(13MED044) POWER PLANT ENGINEERING
Course Prerequisites: Thermal Engineering and Basic Electrical Engineering.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the layout of the different types of Power plants.
• Knowledge on various components in the power plants.
• Knowledge on Nuclear power generation
• Understand the power plant economics and power distribution.
Course outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Working principal of the power plant , scope for future expansion and
knowledge on various equipments in the plant.
• Know the power generation through Nuclear fuel and safety measure while
using the nuclear fuel for power generation.
• Have an awareness on effluents from power plants and impact on
environment – pollution control.
• Know about the power distribution and load factor importance.
UNIT – I
Introduction to the Sources of Energy – Resources and Development of Power in India.
STEAM POWER PLANT : Plant Layout, Working of different Circuits, Fuel and
handling equipments, types of coals, coal handling, choice of handling equipment, coal
storage, ash handling systems.
COMBUSTION PROCESS : Properties of coal – overfeed and underfeed fuel beds,
traveling grate stokers, spreader stokers, retort stokers, pulverized fuel burning system
and its components, combustion needs and draught system, cyclone furnace, design
and construction, Dust collectors, cooling towers and heat rejection..
UNIT – II
INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE PLANT : DIESEL POWER PLANT: Introduction –
IC Engines, types, construction– Plant layout with auxiliaries – fuel supply system, air
starting equipment, lubrication and cooling system – Cost of Diesel power Plant –
Testing Diesel Power Plant Performance.
UNIT III
GAS TURBINE PLANT : Introduction – classification - construction – Layout with
auxiliaries – Principles of working of closed and open cycle gas turbines. Combined
Cycle Power Plants and comparison.
HYDRO ELECTRIC POWER PLANT: Water power – Hydrological cycle / flow
measurement – drainage area characteristics – Hydrographs – storage and Pondage –
classification of dams and spill ways.
188
HYDRO PROJECTS AND PLANT: Classification – Typical layouts – plant auxiliaries –
plant operation pumped storage plants.
UNIT IV
POWER FROM NON-CONVENTIONAL SOURCES: Utilization of Solar energy -
Collectors- Fuel CellsPrinciple of Working, Wind Energy – types – HAWT, VAWT -Tidal
Energy.
NUCLEAR POWER STATION : Nuclear fuel – breeding and fertile materials – Nuclear
reactor –reactor operation. Types of Reactors: Pressurized water reactor, Boiling
water reactor, sodium-graphite reactor, fast Breeder Reactor, Homogeneous Reactor,
Gas cooled Reactor, Radiation hazards and shielding – radioactive waste disposal.
UNIT – V
POWER PLANT ECONOMICS AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS: Capital
cost, investment of fixed charges, operating costs, general arrangement of power
distribution, Load curves, load duration.
curve. Definitions of connected load, Maximum demand, demand factor, average load,
load factor, diversity factor – related exercises. Effluents from power plants and Impact
on environment – pollutants and pollution standards – Methods of
Pollution control.
TEXT BOOK :
1. A Text Book of Power Plant Engineering / Rajput / Laxmi Publications
2. Power Plant Engineering – G.R. Nagpal/ Khanna Publishers
REFERENCES :
1. Power Plant Engineering: P.K.Nag/ II Edition /TMH.
2. Power plant Engineering/ Ramalingam/ Scietech Publishers
3. Power Plant Engineering – P.C.Sharma / S.K.Kataria Pub
4. A Course in Power Plant Engineering: / Arora and S. Domkundwar.
5. Power station Engineering – ElWakil / McHill.
6. An Introduction to Power Plant Technology / G.D. Rai.
7. Power plant Engg - Elanchezhian- I.K. International Pub.
189
