SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/R15/R15AE.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
B.TECH. FOUR YEAR DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2015-2016)
VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous Institute, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
NBA Accreditation for CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT B.Tech. Programmes
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi, Affiliated to JNTUH
Recognized as “College with Potential for Excellence” by UGC
Vignana Jyothi Nagar, Pragathi Nagar, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500 090, TS, India.
Telephone No: 040-2304 2758/59/60, Fax: 040-23042761
E-mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
R15
Vision and Mission of the Institute
VISION
To be a World Class University providing value-based education, conducting
interdisciplinary research in cutting edge technologies leading to sustainable socio-economic
development of the nation.
MISSION
➢ To produce technically competent and socially responsible engineers, managers and
entrepreneurs, who will be future ready.
➢ To involve students and faculty in innovative research projects linked with industry,
academic and research institutions in India and abroad.
➢ To use modern pedagogy for improving the teaching-learning process.
Vision and Mission of the Department
VISION
To become and be one of the elite technical institutes acclaimed by the peers and industry
with world class technical education, contemporary teaching facility and state-of-the-art
laboratories to suit global standards
MISSION
➢ Provide engineering education with highest learning standards for designing and
manufacturing of world class automobiles
➢ Foster research, evolve innovative applications of state-of-the-art automotive technology,
promote entrepreneurship and ultimately mould young men and women by inculcating
ethical leadership qualities for the benefit of the society
1
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS FOR B.TECH. PROGRAMME
(Applicable for Students admitted from the academic year 2015-2016)
1. Programmes of study
• The following four year B.Tech. degree programmes of study are offered at VNR
VJIET from the academic year 2017-2018.
Branch
Branch
Code
01 Civil Engineering
02 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
03 Mechanical Engineering
04 Electronics and Communication Engineering
05 Computer Science and Engineering
10 Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
12 Information Technology
24 Automobile Engineering
• ‘ENGLISH’ language is used as the medium of instruction in all the above
programmes.
1.1 Eligibility Criteria for Admission
The eligibility criteria for admission into engineering programmes shall be as mentioned
below:
• The candidate shall be an Indian National / NRI
• The candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st December of the
academic year for which the admissions are being conducted
• The candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or equivalent
as on the date of admission recognized by BIE, Telangana State
1.1.1 Seats in each programme in the Institution are classified into Category A and
Category B as per the G.Os.
2
R15
Category – A Seats:
These seats shall be filled through counseling as per the rank in the Common
Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by the State Government and as per other
admission criteria laid down in the G.Os.
Category - B Seats:
These seats shall be filled by the Institute as per the G.Os issued by the State
Government from time to time.
1.1.2 Category: Lateral Entry
The candidate shall be admitted into the Third Semester, (2nd year, 1st semester)
based on the rank secured by the candidate in Engineering Common Entrance Test
(ECET (FDH)) by the Convener, ECET.
2. Distribution and Weights of Marks
i. The performance of a student in each semester shall be evaluated subject –wise
with a maximum of 100 marks for theory and 100 marks for practical subjects.
In addition, an Industry oriented mini-project, seminar, comprehensive viva-voce and
project work shall be evaluated for 100, 100, 100 and 200 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects, the distribution shall be 40 marks for Mid-term Evaluation and
60 marks for the Semester End Examination.
.
Mid-Term Evaluation (40 M):
Mid-term evaluation consists of mid-term examination (30 M) and assignment/test
(10 M).
➢ Mid-term examination (30 M):
• For theory subjects, two mid examinations shall be conducted in each semester
as per the academic calendar. Each mid examination shall be evaluated for 30
marks.
PART-A 3 X 2M = 6 M (one question from each UNIT)
PART-B 3 X 8 M = 24 M (three internal choice questions one from each UNIT
shall be given, the student has to answer one question from each UNIT)
• 80 % weightage for better mid-term examination and 20% weightage for the
other mid examination shall be used and calculated as the final mid-term
examination marks for each subject.
➢ Assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project (10 M):
• Two assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project shall be given to the
students covering the syllabus of First Mid and Second Mid Examinations
respectively and evaluated for 10 marks each.
3
R15
• The first assignment shall be submitted before first mid examination and second
assignment shall be submitted before second mid examination.
• The average of 2 assignments shall be taken as final assignment marks.
iii. For practical subjects, there shall be a continuous evaluation during the semester
for 40 marks and 60 marks for semester end examination. Out of the 40 marks,
day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be evaluated for 10 marks, and 15
marks for practical examination and 15 marks for laboratory record.
NOTE: 1. Any student who shall remain absent for any assignment/Mid-term
examination for any reason what so ever, shall be deemed to have secured
‘zero’ marks in the test/examination and no makeup test/examination shall be
conducted.
2. Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
iv. For the subjects having design and / or drawing, (such as Engineering Graphics,
Geometrical Drawing, Machine Drawing, Production Drawing Practice, and
Estimation etc.,) the distribution shall be 40 marks for internal evaluation (20
marks for day-to-day work and 20 marks for Mid examination (the average of the
two examinations shall be taken into account) and 60 marks for semester end
examination.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
v. There shall be an industry-oriented mini-project, in collaboration with an industry
of their specialization, to be taken up during the summer vacation after III year II
semester examination. The industry oriented mini project shall be evaluated
during the IV year I semester. The industry oriented mini project shall be submitted
in report form and presented before a committee, which shall evaluate it for 100
marks. The committee shall consist of Head of the Department, the supervisor of
mini project and a senior faculty member of the department. There shall be no mid-
term assessment for industry oriented mini project. However, attending the
shadow engineering program or any such other programme, in lieu thereof, is
a pre-requisite for evaluating industry-oriented mini project.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
vi. There shall be a seminar presentation in IV year II semester. For the seminar, the
student shall collect the information on a specialized topic other than the project topic
and prepare a technical report, showing his understanding of the topic, and submit to
the department, which shall be evaluated by a departmental committee consisting of
the Head of the department, seminar supervisor and a senior faculty member. The
seminar shall be evaluated for 100 marks based on the report and presentation
made.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
4
R15
vii. There shall be a comprehensive viva-voce in IV year II semester. The
comprehensive viva-voce shall be conducted by a committee consisting of the Head
of the Department and three senior faculty members of the Department after
submitting the filled and duly signed M.T.P record. The comprehensive viva-voce
is aimed to assess the student’s understanding in various subjects studied during the
B.Tech. programme of study. The comprehensive viva-voce shall be evaluated for
100 marks by the committee. There shall be no Mid-term assessment for the
comprehensive viva-voce.
Evaluation:-
a. Objective type examination – 50 marks. (Two hours test)
b. Committee evaluation – 50 marks.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s
viii. The project work shall be started by the student in the beginning of the IV year I
semester. Out of a total of 200 marks for the project work, 80 marks shall be for
mid-term evaluation and 120 marks for the semester end examination. The viva-
voce shall be conducted by a committee comprising an external examiner, Head of
the Department, the project supervisor and one senior faculty. The evaluation of
project work shall be conducted at the end of the IV year II Semester. The mid-
term evaluation shall be on the basis of three seminars conducted during the
IV year II semester for 80 marks by the committee consisting of Head of the
Department, project supervisor and senior faculty member of the Department.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s
3. Semester End Examination (60 M):
(a) Theory Courses
Question paper pattern for semester end examination (60 Marks) consists of two
sections i.e., Part-A and Part-B.
PART-A:
• Shall consist of 10 questions of 02 marks each. (10X2M = 20M)
• There shall be 02 questions from each unit.
• All the questions are compulsory.
PART-B:
• Shall consist of 05 questions of 08 marks each. (05X8M = 40M)
• There shall be 01 question from each unit with internal choice.
5
R15
(b) Practical Courses
Each laboratory course shall be evaluated for 60 marks. The semester end
examination shall be conducted by two examiners, one Internal and other external
concerned with the subject of the same / other department / Industry. The evaluation
shall be as per the standard format.
(c) Supplementary Examinations
Supplementary examinations shall be conducted along with regular semester end
examinations. (During even semester regular examinations, supplementary
examinations of odd semester and during odd semester regular examinations,
supplementary examinations of even semester shall be conducted).
4. Attendance Requirements
i. A student shall be eligible to appear for the semester end examinations if he / she
acquire a minimum of 75% of attendance in aggregate of all the courses in that
semester.
ii. Shortage of attendance in aggregate up to 10% (attendance of 65% and above
and below 75%) in a semester may be condoned by the Institute Academic
Committee based on the rules prescribed by the Academic Council of the
Institute from time to time.
iii. A student shall not be permitted to write the semester end examination and not
promoted to the next semester unless he/she satisfies the attendance requirement of
the present semester, as applicable. He/She may seek re-admission for that
semester when offered next, if not promoted to the next semester.
iv. Shortage of attendance below 65% in aggregate shall in NO case be condoned.
v. Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned or who have not paid the
stipulated fee or who have not cleared any other due to the Institute in any semester
are not eligible to writer semester end examination of that semester.
5. Minimum Academic Requirements
The following academic requirements have to be satisfied in addition to the attendance
requirements mentioned in Regulation No.4.
i. A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic requirements
and earned the credits allotted to each theory or practical or design or drawing
subject or project, if he/she secures not less than 35% (21 out of 60 marks) of
marks in the semester end examination and a minimum of 40% of marks in the
sum total of the mid-term evaluation and semester end examination taken
together.
ii. For promotion from II year II semester to III year I semester, the student needs to
have 50% of credits up to II year II semester which includes
➢ Two regular and two supplementary examinations of I B Tech. I semester.
➢ Two regular and one supplementary examinations of I B Tech. II semester
➢ One regular and one supplementary examinations of II year I semester.
➢ One regular examinations of II year II semester.
6
R15
iii. For promotion from III year II semester to IV year I semester, the student needs to
have 50% of credits up to III year II semester which includes
➢ Three regular and three supplementary examinations of I B Tech. I semester.
➢ Three regular and two supplementary examinations of I B Tech. II semester
➢ Two regular and two supplementary examinations of II year I semester.
➢ Two regular and one supplementary examinations of II year II semester.
➢ One regular and one supplementary examination of III year I semester.
➢ One regular examination of III year II semester.
iv. A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 188 credits
and earn atleast 180 credits for the award of B.Tech. degree. The grade
obtained for the minimum credits shall be considered for the calculation of CGPA.
v. The students shall take one open elective subject each from the lists given in open
elective-1 and open elective-2. The selected subjects shall not belong to their own
branch.
vi. The student shall be qualified in two certificate courses during his/her course of
study.
vii. “Gender Sensitization” is compulsory value added course as per the JNTUH procds.
No. A1/2557/XXII SCAS/2015(2), dated 19.11.2015.
viii. Students who fail to earn atleast 180 credits as indicated in the course structure
within eight academic years counting from the year of their admission shall forfeit
their seat in B.Tech. programme and their admission stands cancelled.
6. Course pattern
i. The entire programme of study is of four academic years. All I, II, III and IV years
are of semester pattern.
ii. A student eligible to appear for the semester end examination in a subject, but
absent or has failed in the semester end examination may reappear for that subject
in the supplementary examination whenever conducted.
iii. When a student is detained due to shortage of attendance in any semester, he/she
shall seek readmission into that semester when it is offered next, with the academic
regulations of the batch into which he/she gets readmitted and has to obtain
the degree within 8 academic years from the year of his/her original admission.
iv. When a student is detained due to lack of credits in any year, he/she may be eligible
for promotion to the next year after obtaining the required number of credits and
fulfillment of the academic requirements.
7. Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. degree if he/she fulfils
the following academic regulations:
i. Pursued a programme of study for not less than four academic years and not
more than eight academic years.
ii. Registered for 188 credits and secured a minimum of 180 credits with compulsory
subjects as listed in the following Table.
7
R15
Table: Compulsory Courses
S. No. Courses Particulars
1. All Practical Courses
2. Industry oriented mini project
3. Comprehensive Viva-Voce
4. Seminar
5. Project work
6. Engineering Graphics / Engineering Drawing / Machine Drawing
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award of the
degree within eight academic years from the year of their admission, shall forfeit their
seat in B.Tech. programme.
8. CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points in four year B.Tech. degree
programme is as follows:
• Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the total marks obtained in mid-term
and semester end examinations.
• Grades and Grade points are assigned as given below.
Description Grade Points(GP)
Marks Obtained Grade
of Grade Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A+ Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 A Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 B Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 C Fair 6.00
>=40 and <49.99 D Pass 5.00
<40 F Fail
--
Not Appeared the Exam(s) N Absent
• The student is eligible for the award of the B.Tech. degree with the class as
mentioned in the following table.
CGPA Class
>= 7.5 First Class with Distinction
>= 6.5 and <7.5 First Class
>= 5.5 and < 6.5 Second Class
>=5.0 and < 5.5 Pass Class
8
R15
➢ Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
The performance of each student at the end of the each semester shall be indicated in
terms of SGPA. The SGPA shall be calculated as below:
Where Ci = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘i’
Gi = Grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to the subject ‘i’
i = 1,2,…..p represent the number of subjects in a particular semester
Note: SGPA is calculated and awarded for the candidates who pass all the courses in a
semester.
➢ Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA):
The CGPA of a student for the entire programme shall be calculated as given
below:
• Assessment of the overall performance of a student shall be obtained by calculating
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA), which is weighted average of the grade
points obtained in all subjects during the course of study.
Where Cj = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘j’
Gj = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to that subject ‘j’
j = 1,2,….m represent the number of subjects of the entire program.
• Grade lower than D in any subject shall not be considered for CGPA calculation. The
CGPA shall be awarded only when the student acquires the required number of
credits prescribed for the program.
9
R15
➢ Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
9. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to the Institute, or if any case of indiscipline is pending
against him, the result of the candidate may be withheld. The award or issue of the
Provisional Certificate and the Degree may also be withheld in such cases.
10. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or any
other academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and when they
become eligible. They have to take up Equivalent subjects, as substitute subjects in place
of repeated subjects as decided by the Chairman of the BoS of the respective
departments. He/She shall be admitted under the regulation of the batch in which he/she
is readmitted.
11. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each semester shall be 90 instruction days.
12. There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission process.
13. The decision of the Institute Academic Committee shall be final in respect of
equivalent subjects for those students who are transferred from other colleges.
The transfer of students from other college or from this institute is to be approved
by the Governing Council of the Institute.
14. General
i. Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include “she”, “her”,
“hers”.
ii. The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
iii. In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arising in the above rules and
regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
iv. The Chairman Academic Council may change or amend any or all of the academic
regulations or syllabi at any time and the changes or amendments made shall be
applicable to all the students concerned with effect from the dates notified by the
College.
15. Academic Regulations for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2016-2017)
A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. degree if he/she fulfils
the following academic regulations:
10
R15
i. Pursued a programme of study for not less than three academic years and not
more than six academic years.
ii. Registered for 138 credits and secured a minimum of 130 credits with compulsory
subjects as listed in the following Table.
Table: Compulsory Courses
S. No. Courses Particulars
1. All Practical Courses
2. Industry oriented mini project
3. Comprehensive Viva-Voce
4. Seminar
5. Project work
6. Engineering Graphics / Engineering Drawing / Machine Drawing
iii. A student who fails to earn a minimum of 130 credits as indicated in the course
structure within six academic years from the year of their admission shall forfeit
his/her seat in B.Tech. programme and his admission stands cancelled.
iv. The same attendance regulations are adopted as that of B.Tech. four year degree
course.
v. For promotion from III year II semester to IV year I semester, the student needs to
have 50% of credits up to III year II semester which includes
➢ Two regular and two supplementary examinations of II B Tech. I semester
➢ Two regular and one supplementary examinations of II B Tech. II semester
➢ One regular and one supplementary examinations of III B.Tech. I semester
➢ One regular of examinations of III year II semester
vi. All other regulations as applicable to B.Tech. four year degree course shall hold
good for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme).
16. Malpractice Rules
Disciplinary Action for Malpractices/Improper Conduct in Examinations
Nature of Malpractices/Improper
S.
conduct
Punishment
No.
If the candidate:
(a) Possesses or keeps accessible in
examination hall, any paper, note book,
programmable calculators, Cell phones,
1. Expulsion from the examination hall
pager, palm computers or any other form
and cancellation of the
of material concerned with or related to
performance in that subject only.
the subject of the examination (theory or
practical) in which he is appearing but
has not made use of (material shall
include any marks on the body of the
11
R15
candidate which can be used as an aid
in the subject of the examination)
(b)Gives assistance or guidance or Expulsion from the examination hall
receives it from any other candidate and cancellation of the
orally or by any other body language performance in that subject only of
methods or communicates through cell all the candidates involved. In case
phones with any candidate or persons in of an outsider, he shall be handed
or outside the exam hall in respect of over to the police and a case is
any matter. registered against him.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of the
performance in that subject and all
other subjects the candidate has
Has copied in the examination hall from
already appeared including
any paper, book, programmable
practical examinations and project
calculators, palm computers or any other
2. work and shall not be permitted to
form of material relevant to the subject of
appear for the remaining
the examination (theory or practical) in
examinations of the subjects of that
which the candidate is appearing.
Semester/year.
The Hall Ticket of the candidate is
to be cancelled.
The candidate who has
impersonated shall be expelled
from examination hall. The
candidate is also debarred and
forfeits the seat. The performance
of the original candidate, who has
been impersonated, shall be
cancelled in all the subjects of the
Impersonates any other candidate in examination (including practicals
3.
connection with the examination. and project work) already appeared
and shall not be allowed to appear
for examinations of the remaining
subjects of that semester/year.
The candidate is also debarred for
two consecutive semesters from
class work and all end semester
examinations. The continuation of
the course by the candidate is
subject to the academic regulations
12
R15
in connection with forfeiture of seat.
If the imposter is an outsider, he
shall be handed over to the police
and a case is registered against
him.
4.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of performance in
that subject and all the other
subjects the candidate has already
appeared including practical
examinations and project work and
Smuggles the Answer book or additional
shall not be permitted for the
sheet or takes out or arranges to send
remaining examinations of the
out the question paper during the
subjects of that semester/year. The
examination or answer book or
candidate is also debarred for two
additional sheet, during or after the
consecutive semesters from class
examination.
work and all end semester and
supplementary examinations The
continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the
academic regulations in connection
with forfeiture of seat.
Uses objectionable, abusive or offensive
language in the answer paper or in
Cancellation of the performance in
5. letters to the examiners or writes to the
that subject.
examiner requesting him to award pass
marks.
Refuses to obey the orders of the Chief In case of students of the college,
Superintendent/Assistant– they shall be expelled from
Superintendent / any officer on duty or examination halls and cancellation
misbehaves or creates disturbance of of their performance in that subject
any kind in and around the examination and all other subjects the
6. hall or organizes a walk out or instigates candidate(s) has (have) already
others to walk out, or threatens the appeared and shall not be
officer-in charge or any person on duty permitted to appear for the
in or outside the examination hall of any remaining examinations of the
injury to his person or to any of his subjects of that semester/year.
relations whether by words, either The candidates are also debarred
spoken or written or by signs or by and they shall forfeit their seats. In
13
R15
visible representation, assaults the case of outsiders, they shall be
officer-in-charge, or any person on duty handed over to the police and a
in or outside the examination hall or any police case is registered against
of his relations, or indulges in any other them.
act of misconduct or mischief which
result in damage to or destruction of
property in the examination hall or any
part of the College campus or engages
in any other act which in the opinion of
the officer on duty amounts to use of
unfair means or misconduct or has the
tendency to disrupt the orderly conduct
of the examination.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of performance in
that subject and all the other
subjects the candidate has already
appeared including practical
examinations and project work and
shall not be permitted for the
Leaves the exam hall taking away remaining examinations of the
answer script or intentionally tears of the subjects of that semester/year.
7.
script or any part thereof inside or The candidate is also debarred for
outside the examination hall. two consecutive semesters from
class work and all end semester
examinations including
supplementary Examinations. The
continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the
academic regulations in connection
with forfeiture of seat.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of the
performance in that subject and all
Possesses any lethal weapon or firearm
other subjects the candidate has
in the examination hall.
8. already appeared including
practical examinations and project
work and shall not be permitted for
the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year.
The candidate is also debarred and
14
R15
forfeits the seat.
If the student belongs to the
college, expulsion from the
examination hall and cancellation of
the performance in that subject and
all other subjects the candidate has
already appeared including
If student of the college, who is not a
practical examinations and project
candidate for the particular examination
work and shall not be permitted for
or any person not connected with the
9. the remaining examinations of the
college indulges in any malpractice or
subjects of that semester/year. The
improper conduct mentioned in any of
candidate is also debarred and
clauses 6 to 8.
forfeits the seat.
Person(s) who do not belong
to the College shall be handed over
to police and, a police case shall be
registered against them.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of the
performance in that subject and all
other subjects the candidate has
Comes in a drunken condition to the already appeared including
10.
examination hall. practical examinations and project
work and shall not be permitted for
the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that series of the
semester/year.
Cancellation of the performance in
that subject and all other subjects
Copying detected on the basis of internal
the candidate has appeared
11. evidence, such as, during valuation or
including practical examinations
during special scrutiny.
and project work of that
semester/year.
If any malpractice is detected which is
not covered in the above clauses 1 to 11
12. shall be reported to the academic
council of the Institute for further action
to award suitable punishment.
15
R15
Malpractices identified by squad or special invigilators
Punishments shall be given to the candidates as per the above guidelines.
Malpractice identified at Spot center during valuation
The following procedure is to be followed in the case of malpractice cases detected
during valuation, scrutiny etc. at spot center.
1) Malpractice is detected at the spot valuation. The case is to be referred to the
malpractice committee. Malpractice committee shall meet and discuss/question the
candidate and based on the evidences, the committee shall recommend suitable
action on the candidate.
2) A notice is to be served to the candidate(s) involved, through the Principal, to his
address and to the candidate(s) permanent address regarding the malpractice and
seek explanations.
3) The involvement of staff who are in charge of conducting examinations, invigilators,
examiners valuing examination papers and preparing / keeping records of
documents related to the examinations in such acts (inclusive of providing incorrect
or misleading information) that infringe upon the course of natural justice to one and
all concerned at the examinations shall be viewed seriously and recommend for
award of appropriate punishment after thorough enquiry.
4) Based on the explanation by the party involved and recommendations of the
committee action may be initiated.
5) Malpractice committee:
i. Dean, Academics Chairman
ii. Controller of Examinations Convener
iii. Invigilator Member
iv. Chief Examiner of the subject/subject expert Member
v. Concerned Head of the Department Member
16
R15
Programme Educational Objectives
The under-graduate programme in Automobile Engineering will be able to
1. Provide a strong foundation in mathematical, scientific and engineering fundamentals
that enable the students to formulate, analyze and solve engineering problems and
to prepare them for graduate studies
2. Apply knowledge and concepts of automotive technology to synthesize data and
solve multi-disciplinary engineering problems
3. Continue to work as part of teams for successful career in automotive and ancillary
industry that meet the needs of Indian and multinational companies
4. Undertake research and development projects with multi-disciplinary approach which
are cost effective and efficient so as to resolve automotive engineering issues of
social relevance
5. Demonstrate their professional, ethical and social responsibilities for a successful
professional career and contribute their part for addressing various global issues
Program Outcomes
The students of Automobile Engineering will be able to
a) Apply acquired knowledge from undergraduate engineering and other disciplines to
identify, formulate and present solutions to technical problems related to various
areas of Automobile Engineering.
b) Learn advanced technologies and analyze complex problems in the fields of
Automobile Engineering.
c) Design and implementation of Automotive systems using Auto
CAD/CREO/ANSYS/CATIA
d) Addressing specific problems in the field of automotive system design in the form of
mini projects, analysis, and interpretation of data and synthesis of information to
provide valid conclusions.
e) Use the techniques, skills, latest Modelling / Design / Analysis / Simulation tools,
software and equipment necessary to evaluate and analyze the systems in
automotive design environments.
f) Understand and commit to professional ethics, social responsibilities and norms of
engineering practice.
g) Develop confidence for self-education and imbibe professional values for lifelong
learning.
h) Demonstrate effective oral and written communication skills in accordance with
technical standards.
i) Become knowledgeable about contemporary developments.
j) Ability to correct the mistakes effectively and learn from them to become good
leaders.
k) Understand the scenario of global business.
17
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.TECH. AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5BS11 Advanced Calculus 3 0 3
5BS21 Engineering Physics 3 0 3
5BS31 Chemistry of Engineering Materials 3 0 3
5IT01 C Programming and Data Structures 3 1 4
5CE01 Engineering Mechanics – I 3 1 4
5ME51 Engineering Graphics – I 0 6 3
Engineering Physics and Chemistry
5BS25 0 3 2
Laboratory
C Programming and Data Structures
5IT51 0 3 2
Laboratory
Total 15 14 24
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
18
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.TECH. AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5CE03 Environmental Studies 3 0 3
Ordinary Differential Equations and Laplace
5BS12 3 0 3
Transforms
5BS22 Physics of Materials 3 0 3
5BS32 Engineering Chemistry 3 0 3
5BS01 English 3 0 3
5CE02 Engineering Mechanics – II 3 1 4
5ME52 Engineering Graphics - II 0 6 3
5ME53 IT and Engineering Workshop 0 3 2
English Language Communication Skills
5BS02 0 3 2
Laboratory
Total 18 13 26
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
19
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.TECH. AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
Partial Differential Equations with Applications
5BS14 3 0 3
and Complex Analysis
5ME01 Mechanics of Solids 3 0 3
5ME02 Thermodynamics 3 1 4
5ME03 Metallurgy and Material Science 3 0 3
5ME04 Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulic Machines 3 0 3
5ME54 Metallurgy and Material Science Laboratory 0 3 2
5ME55 Mechanics of Solids Laboratory 0 3 2
Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulic Machines
5ME56 0 3 2
Laboratory
Total 15 10 22
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
20
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.TECH. AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course Code Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
5BS13 Computational Methods 3 0 3
5AE01 Applied Thermodynamics 3 1 4
5AE02 Automotive Engines and Systems 3 0 3
5AE03 Theory of Machines 3 1 4
Basic Electrical and Electronics
5EE23 3 0 3
Engineering
5ME57 Machine Drawing 0 6 3
5AE51 Automotive Engines Laboratory 0 3 2
Basic Electrical and Electronics
5EE63 0 3 2
Engineering Laboratory
Total 15 14 24
#5BS04 Gender Sensitization - 3 2
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
# Value added Course
21
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.TECH. AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
III YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5AE04 Automotive Chassis 3 0 3
5AE05 Automotive Electrical and Electronics 3 0 3
5AE06 Automobile Engineering Design - I 3 1 4
5ME07 Production Technology 3 0 3
5ME10 Heat and Mass Transfer 3 0 3
Open Elective I 3 0 3
5ME59 Production Technology Laboratory 0 3 2
5ME60 Heat and Mass Transfer Laboratory 0 3 2
Total 18 7 23
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
OPEN ELECTIVE I
Course Course Offered by
Course Name
Code the Department
5CE71 Disaster Management CE
5EE71 Renewable Energy Technologies EEE
5ME71 Digital Fabrication ME
5EC71 Principles of Electronic Communications ECE
5CS71 Object Oriented Programming through JAVA CSE
5EI71 Principles of Measurements and Instrumentation EIE
5IT71 Cyber Security IT
5AE71 Principles of Automobile Engineering AE
5BS71 Professional Ethics and Human Values H&S
22
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.TECH. AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
III YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
Business Economics and Financial
5BS41 3 0 3
Analysis
5AE07 Automobile Engineering Design - II 3 1 4
5AE08 Vehicle Dynamics 3 0 3
5AE09 Machine Tools and Metrology 3 0 3
Open Elective II 3 0 3
Machine Tools and Metrology
5ME61 0 3 2
Laboratory
Advanced English Communication Skills
5BS03 0 3 2
Laboratory
5AE52 Automobile Engineering Laboratory 0 3 2
Total 15 10 22
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
OPEN ELECTIVE II
Course Course Offered by
Course Name
Code the Department
5CE72 Introduction to Geographical Information System CE
5EE72 Energy Auditing Conservation and Management EEE
5ME72 Optimization Techniques ME
5EC72 Introduction to Micro Processors and Controllers ECE
5EC95 Wireless Communications and Networks ECE
5CS72 Open Source Technologies CSE
5EI72 LabVIEW Programming EIE
5EI79 Fundamentals of Robotics EIE
5IT72 Relational Database Management Systems IT
5AE72 Modern Automotive Technologies AE
5BS72 Entrepreneurship H&S
23
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.TECH. AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
IV YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5AE10 Electric and Hybrid Vehicles 3 0 3
Industrial Engineering and Operations
5AE11 3 1 4
Research
5ME16 CAD/CAM 3 0 3
Elective I
5AE73 Vehicle Body Engineering and Safety
5AE74 Fuel Cell Technology 3 0 3
5ME74 Automation and Robotics
5ME76 Quality Engineering in Manufacturing
Elective II
5AE81 Finite Element Analysis
5AE75 Automotive Infotronics 3 0 3
5ME77 Computational Fluid Dynamics
5ME80 Product Life Cycle Management
5AE53 Vehicle Maintenance and Testing Laboratory 0 3 2
5ME62 CAD/CAM Laboratory 0 3 2
Vehicle Dynamics and Autotronics
5AE54 0 3 2
Laboratory
5AE91 Industry Oriented Mini Project 0 4 2
Total 15 14 24
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
24
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.TECH. AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
IV YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5AE12 Refrigeration and Auto Air Conditioning 3 0 3
Elective III
5AE76 Alternative Fuels and Technologies
5AE77 Fluid Power Systems 3 0 3
5ME82 Design for Manufacturing
5ME84 Principles of Entrepreneurship
Elective IV
5AE78 Automotive Pollution and Control
Plant Layout and Material Handling
5AE79 3 0 3
Systems
5AE80 Composite Materials
5ME88 Nano Science and Technology
5AE92 Technical Seminar 0 3 2
5AE93 Comprehensive Viva Voce 0 0 2
5AE94 Project Work 0 20 10
Total 9 23 23
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
25
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Year I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS11) ADVANCED CALCULUS
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT & AE)
Course prerequisites: Differentiation and Integration
Course Objectives
• Understand the Taylor’s theorem and its application to maxima and minima of f(x,y)
• Understand the process of curve tracing
• Understand multiple integrals and its applications
• Apply integral theorems of vector calculus
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Solve problems involving the maxima and minima of f(x,y)
• Trace curves using basic characteristics
• Evaluate integrals using special functions and change of variables
• Evaluate vector integrals
UNIT I
Calculus of One and Several Real Variables: Mean value thoerems – Rolle’s thoerem,
Lagrange’s mean value theorem, Cauchy’s mean value theorem, Taylor’s expansion and
McLaurin’s expansion of functions (without proofs).
Partial differentiation, partial derivatives of first and second order in terms of partial derivaties,
change of variables, Jacobian, Taylor’s theorem of two variables(without proof). Maxima and
Minima of two variables and Langrange’s method of undetermined multipliers.
UNIT II
Curve Tracing and Related Applications: Radius of curvature of curves in Cartesian,
parametric and polar coordinates. Tracing of curves in Cartesian, Parametric and Polar
coordinates (like Conics, Astroid, Hypocycloid, Folium of Descartes, Cycloid, Circle, Cardiode
and Lemniscate).
UNIT III
Multiple Integrals: Beta, gamma and error functions, introduction of multiple integrals,
evaluation of double and triple integrals, change of order of integration, change of variables,
cylindrical and spherical polar coordinates.
26
R15
UNIT IV
Vector Differential Calculus: Scalar and vector point functions, gradient, divergence, curl
with geometrical and physical interpretation, directional derivatives and vector identities
(without proofs).
UNIT V
Vector Integral Calculus: Line integrals and application to work done and circulation, scalar
potential function, surface integrals and volume integrals, Gauss divergence theorem, Green’s
theorem and Stokes’ theorem (theorems without proof).
TEXT BOOKS
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics by B. S. Grewal; Publisher: Khanna.
2. Calculus and Analytic Geometry by Thomas and Finney, 9th edition; Publisher: Pearson
Education.
REFERENCES
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition; Publisher: John
Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter ‘O’ Neil, publisher: Cengage Learning.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Publisher: Narosa.
27
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Year I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS21) ENGINEERING PHYSICS
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT & AE)
Course Objectives
• Supplement and enhance the knowledge of basic concepts in physics essentially
required in the study of interaction of light with matter and behavior of a particle
quantum mechanically
• Study and understand various phenomena of light- Interference, diffraction,
dispersion and total internal reflection
• Learn and enhance the basic concepts in physics required to deal with large
number of particles and behavior of an electron in metals
• Understand the basic principles and working of lasers and optical fibers
• Learn simple applications of these concepts and principles in engineering and
technology
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Realize influence of diffraction and resolvability in optical elements
• Recognize importance of interference in thin films
• Distinguish LASER light from ordinary light and describe propagation of light
through optical fiber by total internal reflection.
• Illustrate behavior of a particle in one dimensional potential box
• Understand behavior of electron in a periodic potential in real crystal and classify
solids based on conduction.
UNIT I
Interference: Introduction, superposition principle, resultant amplitude, coherence - Methods
to obtain coherent sources, interference, Young’s double slit experiment, interference in thin
films by reflection, Newton’s rings experiment - Formation of rings and experimental method,
characteristics of rings, applications.
UNIT II
Diffraction: Introduction, distinguish between Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction, diffraction at
single slit (Qualitative and Quantitative (Phasors approach)). Diffraction at double slit, circular
aperture, and multiple slits (grating)( Qualitative Approach)-Width of principal maxima and
dispersion, resolution of spectral lines, Rayleigh criterion, and resolving power of grating.
28
R15
UNIT III
Lasers and Optical Fibers: Introduction, characteristics of lasers, spontaneous and
stimulated emission of radiation, meta stable state, population inversion, lasing action,
Einstein’s coefficients and relation between them, Ruby laser, Helium-Neon laser,
semiconductor laser, principle of optical fiber and properties, acceptance angle and
acceptance cone, numerical aperture, types of fibers based on refractive index profiles,
qualitative analysis of attenuation in optical fibers, application of lasers and optical fibers.
UNIT IV
Elements of Quantum Mechanics: Waves and particles, De Broglie hypothesis, matter
waves, Davisson and Germer experiment, Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle- Applying it to
Non existence of electron in Nucleus and single slit experiment, Schrodinger Wave Equation –
Wave function and its physical significance, particle in one dimensional potential box(wave
functions, probability densities and energy states), Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and
Fermi-Dirac statistics (non-mathematical treatment).
UNIT V
Electron Theory of Metals: Energy levels in one dimension, effect of temperature on the
Fermi-Dirac distribution, Electrical conductivity & Ohm’s law, electrical resistivity of metals
(Qualitative), electron in a periodic potential, Bloch theorem, Kronig-Penney model (non-
mathematical treatment), Origin of energy band formation in solids, classification of materials
into conductors, semiconductors and insulators and concept of effective mass of an electron.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Physics vol.2, by Halliday, Resnick and Krane; John Wiley & Sons.
2. Engineering Physics by R.K.Gaur and S.L.Gupta; Dhanpat Rai and Sons.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Optics by Ghatak and Thyagarajan, Tata Mc Graw.
2. Concepts of Modern physics by Arthur Beiser, McGraw Hill Inc.
3. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel : John Wiley & Sons.
4. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd.
5. Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press.
29
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Year I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS31) CHEMISTRY OF ENGINEERING MATERIALS
(Common to CE, ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: General chemistry
Course Objectives
• Classification and applications of abrasives and adhesives
• Familiarity of the types and applications of refractories and ceramics
• Examining the properties of lubricants and learning the mechanism of lubrication
• Knowledge of manufacturing of cement and its properties
• Listing out various types of fuels and understanding the concept of calorific values
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Formulate and infer the suitability of abrasives and adhesives in different industries
• Understand benefits of refractories and ceramics as heat resistant materials in
industries
• Assess the quality of lubricants and their appropriate usage in machinery
• Interpret the setting and hardening process of cement
• Acquire the knowledge of efficiency of fuels and identify a better fuel source of less
pollution.
UNIT I
ENGINEERING MATERIALS
Abrasives: Introduction, classification and applications of natural abrasives (diamond, quartz)
and synthetic abrasives (silicon carbide, boron nitride).
Adhesives: Criteria of a good adhesive, classification and applications of thermoplastic
adhesives (cellulose and acrylics) and thermosetting adhesives (phenol formaldehyde and
epoxy resins).
UNIT II
REFRACTORIES AND CERAMICS
Refractories: Definition, classification with examples, characteristics of a good refractory,
causes for the failure of a refractory material, properties of refractories - refractoriness, RUL
test and porosity.
30
R15
Ceramics: Introduction, classification- whiteware, stoneware, earthenware and their
applications, Glazing- definition and liquid glazing.
UNIT III
Lubricants: Criteria of a good lubricant; classification of lubricants (lubricating oils, greases or
semisolid lubricants, solid lubricants). Mechanism of lubrication-fluid film lubrication, boundary
lubrication, and extreme pressure lubrication; Properties of lubricants –definition and
Significance of viscosity, cloud point, pour point, flash & fire point, mechanical stability,
oiliness, and carbon residue.
Biodegradable lubricants: classification, advantages and disadvantages of biodegradable
lubricants.
UNIT IV
Cement: Types of cement, chemical constituents and composition of Portland cement and
manufacturing methods of Portland cement (wet and dry processes). Setting and hardening of
cement (reactions); decay of cement; cement concrete - RCC.
UNIT V
Energy Sources: Fuels - classification (solid, liquid, gaseous), calorific value of fuel (HCV,
LCV), Dulong formula- numericals, Solid fuels – coal – proximate and ultimate analysis and
their significance (no numerical problems), Liquid fuels – petrol – cracking, need for cracking,
types of cracking( thermal and catalytic cracking), fluid bed catalytic cracking, synthetic petrol
by Fischer- Tropsch’s process. Knocking- octane number, cetane number. Gaseous fuels -
natural gas, LPG, CNG (composition and uses).
Biofuels - Characteristics, biodiesel - transesterification, properties and applications.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, and Jyotsna Cherukuri;
Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain & Monica Jain; Publisher: Dhanpatrai.
REFERENCES
1. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna, Publisher: McGraw Hill Edu.Pvt.Ltd.
2. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Shashi Chawla, Publisher: Dhanpat rai &Co.
3. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi, Cengage Learning
Publications.
4. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, Sulochana
Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
31
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Year I Semester L T/PD C
3 1 4
(5IT01) C PROGRAMMING AND DATA STRUCTURES
(Common to CE, ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Knowledge on Computers and Mathematics.
Course Objectives
• Discuss the history of computers and fundamentals of problem solving using structured
programming
• Identify the appropriate decision making and branching statements to solve the problem
• Understand different derived data types
• Identify basic and advanced sorting and searching techniques and understand the
operations of linear data structures
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply knowledge of mathematics, science engineering and technology in problems
solving using C programming Language
• Analyze structured programming methods, techniques and standard library functions
• Understand and relate different derived data types and able to choose the loops and
decision making statements to solve the given problem
• Identify trade-offs involved in choosing static versus dynamic data structures and also
implementation of stacks, queues and linked lists and different searching and sorting
techniques for a given application
UNIT I
Introduction to Computers - Computer systems, computing environments, computer
languages, creating and running programs and software development methods.
UNIT II
Algorithm / pseudo code, flowchart, program development steps, structure of C program,
identifiers, basic data types, Constants, variables, operators, expressions, precedence and
order of evaluation.
Input-output statements, if and switch statements, loops- while, do-while and for statements,
break, continue, goto and labels, example C programs.
32
R15
UNIT III
Functions, basic concepts, parameter passing, storage classes, scope rules, user defined
functions, standard library functions, recursive functions, example C programs.
Arrays- Basic concepts, one-dimensional and two-dimensional arrays, Character array, string
handling functions, example C programs.
UNIT IV
Derived types- structures- Basic concepts, nested structures, arrays of structures, program
examples.
pointers- Basic concepts, pointers and functions, pointers and strings, pointers and arrays,
pointers and structures, self referential structures, example C programs.
UNIT V
Searching - Linear and binary search methods, sorting - Bubble sort, selection sort and
Insertion sort.
Introduction to data structures, Dynamic memory allocation, stacks and queues-
implementation using arrays.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Computer science, A structured programming approach using C, B.A. Forouzan and
R.F. Gilberg, Third edition, Thomson.
2. C Programming and Data structures, E. Balagurusamy, TMH.
REFERENCES
1. Data Structures Using C - A.S. Tanenbaum, Y. Langsam, and M.J. Augenstein,
PHI/Pearson Education.
2. Programming in C - Stephen G. Kochan, III Edition, Pearson Eductaion.
3. Data Structures and Program Design in C, R.Kruse, C.L. Tondo, BP Leung, Shashi M,
Second Edition, Pearson Education.
4. The C Programming Language, B.W. Kernighan, Dennis M. Ritchie, PHI/Pearson
Education.
33
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Year I Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5CE01) ENGINEERING MECHANICS – I
(Common to CE, ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Physics, Mathematics
Course Objectives
• Understand and analyse the forces and reactions for equilibrium
• Discuss various types of friction, laws of friction and analyse body/bodies lying on rough
planes
• Distinguish between centroid, centre of mass and centre of gravity
• Understand the concept of area moment of inertia and mass moment of inertia about
any axes
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Determine the resultant of coplanar concurrent and non-concurrent force systems and
analyse the bodies for equilibrium to find the unknown forces
• Analyze the bodies on rough horizontal and inclined planes and connected bodies
• Determine the centroid of composite areas, centre of gravity of composite bodies
• Determine the moment of inertia of simple areas and mass MI of simple bodies
UNIT I
Forces: Introduction to Engineering Mechanics – Basic Concepts - Classification of a force
system - Parallelogram law of forces - Triangle law of forces - Polygon law of forces – law of
transmissibility of forces – Principle of superposition - Lami’s theorem - Free Body Diagram –
Resultant – Equilibrant - Resultant of coplanar concurrent forces - Equilibrium of coplanar
concurrent forces.
UNIT II
Moments: Moment of a force - Varignon’s principle - Parallel forces - Resultant of parallel
forces – Couple - Moment of a couple about any point lying in the plane - Resolution of a force
into a force-couple and vice-versa - Resultant of coplanar non-concurrent forces - Equilibrium
of coplanar non-concurrent forces –Types of supports - Support reactions.
34
R15
UNIT III
Friction: Types of Friction - Limiting Friction - Laws of Friction - Equilibrium of bodies on
rough horizontal and inclined planes- Equilibrium of connected bodies on rough horizontal and
inclined planes - Ladder friction – wedge friction – screw friction.
UNIT IV
Centroid, Centre of Gravity: Centroid - Centroids of simple figures (from basic principles) –
Centroids of composite figures and built-up sections - Centre of mass of simple bodies -
Centre of gravity of simple bodies - Centre of gravity of composite bodies - Pappu’s theorems.
UNIT V
Area moment of Inertia: Introduction- Inertia - Inertia of areas - Rotation of areas - Radius of
gyration - Polar moment of inertia - Parallel axis theorem - Perpendicular axis theorem -
Moments of inertia of simple figures and composite figures.
Mass Moment of Inertia: Moment of inertia of Masses – Significance - Rotation of mass -
Mass moment of inertia of simple bodies.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering Mechanics by S.Timoshenko, D.H.Young & J.V.Rao, Tata McGraw Hill
Publishers, 4th Edition, 2010.
2. Singer’s Engineering Mechanics by K. Vijaya Kumar Reddy & J. Suresh kumar , B.S
Publishers,3rd Edition,2011.
REFERENCES
1. Engineering Mechanics by S.S. Bhavikatti, Newage International Publishers, 2012.
2. Engineering Mechanics (Statics) by J.L.Meriam & L.G.Kraige, Wiley Publishers, 6th
Edition, 2006.
3. Engineering Mechanics by A.K.Tayal, Umesh Publications, 13th Edition, 2010.
4. Engineering Mechanics by R.K. Rajput, laxmi Publications, 1998.
35
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Year I Semester L T/P/D C
0 6 3
(5ME51) ENGINEERING GRAPHICS – I
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Geometrical constructions
Course Objectives
• Remember the conventions of Engineering Drawing and Auto Cad software
commands and know the importance of engineering scales and engineering curves
• Know the importance of orthographic projections and orientations of points, lines,
planes and its traces
• Understand the importance of positions of planes and its auxiliary views
• Understand the importance of positions of solids and its auxiliary views
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Interpret the concepts of scales and curves and Solve the problems as per the
drawing conventions by using Auto CAD
• Solve the problems on Projections of points, lines and their traces by using Auto CAD
• Solve the problems on positions of planes and the auxiliary views by using Auto CAD
• Apply the knowledge of orientations of solids and solve the problems on solids and
its auxiliary views by using Auto CAD
UNIT I
Introduction to Auto CAD
Introduction to Engineering Drawing: Principles of engineering graphics and their
significance; Drawing instruments and their uses; Conventions in drawing-lettering; BIS
Convention; Different types of scales; Scale of chords.
UNIT II
Curves used in Engineering Practice and their Construction: Ellipse; Parabola; Hyperbola
and Rectangular hyperbola; Cycloid; Epicycloids; Hypocycloid – Involutes.
36
R15
UNIT III
Projection of Points and Straight Lines: Points and straight lines inclined to both planes;
True lengths and traces.
UNIT IV
Projection of Planes: Projection of regular planes inclined to both planes; Auxiliary
projections.
UNIT V
Projection of Solids: Projection of regular solids-inclined to both planes; Auxiliary projections.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Elementary Engineering Drawing by N.D. Bhat; Charotar Publishing House.
2. Engineering Drawing by K.L. Narayana and P. Kannaiah; Scitech Publications.
REFERENCE
1. Engineering Graphics for degree by K.C. John; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
37
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Year I Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS25) ENGINEERING PHYSICS AND CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT & AE)
ENGINEERING PHYSICS LABORATORY
Course Objectives
• Practically learn interaction of light with matter through physical phenomena like
interference, diffraction and dispersion.
• Understand the periodic motion and formation of standing waves and to know the
characteristics of the capacitors and resistors.
• Compare the experimental results with the class room learning.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Demonstrate the optical phenomena with formation of Newton Rings, and formation
of spectra with a grating and a prism
• Illustrate periodic motion by measuring rigidity modulus of a material and formation
of standing waves by Melde’s apparatus and also discharging of a capacitor
• Correlate the experimental results with the class room learning
Any Eight Experiments from the following
1. Dispersive Power of the material of a Prism using Spectrometer
2. Diffraction Grating (both with Laser and non-laser source)
3. Single Slit with laser light
4. Newton’s Rings
5. Finding thickness of a thin wire or sheet by forming a wedge shaped film
6. Energy gap of a semiconductor material
7. To determine the rigidity modulus of material of a wire
8. Melde’s experiment
9. Sonometer Experiment
10. AC frequency by sonometer method
11. Numerical Aperture and Acceptance angle of an optical fiber cable
12. Attenuation and Bending losses in optical fiber
13. Stewart Gee’s experiment
14. Characteristics of LED/Laser Diode
15. Photo cell/ Solar Cell
16. RC circuit
38
R15
REFERENCES
1. Essential Practical Lab Manual in Physics: by Dr.P.Raghavendra Rao,P.Pavankumar
and B.Ashok (inhouse document)
2. Engineering Physics Practicals by B.Srinivasa Rao, V.K.V.Krishna and K.S.Rudramamba,
University Science Press, New Delhi
ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
Pre-requisites: Basic knowledge of Volumetric Analysis and Mathematics.
Course Objectives
• Familiarize the preparation of solutions and operation of instruments
• Conduct of experiment, collection and analyzing the data
• Summarizing the data and find the applicability of the experiment to common society
Course Outcomes
• Understanding the preparation of standard solutions and handling of instruments
• Knowledge of experimentation and recording the data
• Interpretation of results to real world scenario
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
1. Titrimetry: Estimation of hardness of water by EDTA method.
2. Conductometry: Conductometric titration of acid vs base.
3. Colorimetry: Estimation of copper by colorimetric method.
4. pH metry: Determination of pH of sample solutions.
5. Determination of viscosity of sample oil by Redwood Viscometer.
6. Preparations: Soap and Nanoparticles.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by S.K.Bhasin and Sudha Rani; Publisher:
Dhanpat Rai.
2. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari and Jyotsna
Cherukuri; Publisher: VGS Book Links.
39
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Year I Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5IT51) C PROGRAMMING AND DATA STRUCTURES LABORATORY
(Common to CE, ME & AE)
Course Objectives
• Understand the basic structure of C programming
• List different decision making and branching statements and their usage in analyzing
problems
• Understand the usage of derived data types to solve the problems
• Apply different searching and sorting methods and implement linear data structures
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply mathematics, science, engineering and technology in problem solving using C
programming language
• Design c programs using different c tokens
• Experiment appropriate decision making statements and derived data types to solve a
given problem
• Analyze and implement linear data structures, and differentiate the various searching
and sorting techniques
Week 1
1. Write a program that reads three different integers from the keyboard and prints – sum,
average, product, smallest, largest of the numbers.
2. Write a program that reads two integers and prints – difference, quotient and remainder.
3. WAP that reads two integers and determines whether the first is a multiple of the other.
Week 2
1. Write a C program to find the sum of individual digits of a positive integer.
2. Write a C program for Fibonacci sequence.
3. Write a C program to generate the first n terms of the sequence.
4. Write a C program to generate all the prime numbers between 1 and n, where n is a value
supplied by the user.
Week 3
1. Write a C program to calculate the following Sum:
Sum=1-x2/2! +x4/4!-x6/6!+x8/8!-x10/10!
2. Write a C program to find the roots of a quadratic equation.
40
R15
Week 4
1. Write C programs that use both recursive and non-recursive functions
i) To find the factorial of a given integer
ii) To find the GCD (greatest common divisor) of two given integers
iii) To solve Towers of Hanoi problem
Week 5
1. Write a C program, which takes two integer operands and one operator from the user,
performs the operation and then prints the result. (Consider the operators +,-,*, /, % and
use Switch Statement).
2. Write a program to print a given number [0-1000] in words. For example, 123 as One
Hundred and Twenty Three.
Week 6
1. WAP to check whether a given number is an Armstrong, Palindrome, Perfect, Prime, or a
Fibonacci Number.
2. Write a C program to find both the largest and smallest number in a list of integers.
Week 7
1. Write a C program to generate Pascal’s triangle.
2. Write a C program to construct a pyramid of numbers.
Week 8
1. Write a C program to calculate
i) Minimum and maximum of an 1-d array
ii) Sorting an array
iii) Searching an array
Week 9
1. Write a C program that uses functions to perform the following:
i) Addition of Two Matrices
ii) Multiplication of Two Matrices.
iii) To find the determinant of a 3 by 3 matrix
Week 10
1. Write a C program that uses functions to perform the following operations using Pointers:
i) To insert a sub-string in to a given main string from a given position.
ii) To delete n Characters from a given position in a given string.
iii) To reverse a given string.
Week 11
1. Write C Programs to implement Structures and Nested structures with suitable Examples.
(Students have to practice with relevant examples taught in the class room)
Week 12
1. Write C Programs using Pointers and Pointer Arithmetic operations.
2. Write C Programs using Pointers to structures, Pointers to Arrays and Pointers to strings.
(Students have to practice with relevant examples taught in the class room)
41
R15
Week 13
1. Write C Programs to implement the following sorting algorithms
a. Bubble Sort b. Selection sort c. Insertion Sort
Week 14
1. Write a C program to implement STACK and QUEUE operations using Arrays.
2. Write a C program to implement STACK and QUEUE operations using Linked Lists.
Week 15
1. Write a C programs to implement the following searching techniques.
a. Linear Search b. Binary Search
Week 16 Lab Internal Examination
TEXT BOOKS
1. Computer science, A structured programming approach using C, B.A. Forouzan and
R.F. Gilberg, Third edition, Thomson.
2. C Programming and Data structures, E.Balagurusamy, TMH.
REFERENCES
1. Data Structures Using C - A.S.Tanenbaum, Y. Langsam, and M.J. Augenstein,
PHI/Pearson Education.
2. Programming in C - Stephen G. Kochan, III Edition, Pearson Eductaion.
3. Data Structures and Program Design in C, R.Kruse, C.L. Tondo, BP Leung, Shashi M,
Second Edition, Pearson Education.
42
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Year II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE03) ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT & AE)
Course Objectives
• Recognize the importance of environment and ecosystem
• Identify & Analyze human activities and its impact on environment.
• List and understand about the importance of natural resources, Biodiversity &
effect of environment pollution
• Understand about environmental regulations ,economy and environment interaction
Course Outcomes
Students should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge about importance of environment & ecosystem
• Develop skills in understanding of various environmental problems
• Find the solution and strategies to protect the Environment
• List & Distinguish various organizations, regulations for environment protection
UNIT I
Environmental Studies: Introduction, Definition, scope and importance.
Ecosystems: Introduction, types, characteristic features, structure and functions of
ecosystems. Bio-geo-chemical cycle, Classification of Ecosystem.
Bio-diversity and its Conservation- Value of bio-diversity, Bio-geographical classification of
India – India as a mega diversity habitat, Threats to bio-diversity –Hot-spots, habitat loss,
poaching of wild life, loss of species, seeds, etc. Conservation of bio-diversity – In-situ and Ex-
situ conservation.
UNIT II
Natural Resources: Classification of Resources, Land resources, Common property
resources, Land degradation, Soil erosion and desertification, Effects of modern agriculture,
fertilizer –pesticide problems, Forest resources, Use and over-exploitation, food resources,
food miles.
Mining and Dams: Benefits and effects, Water resources, Use and over- utilization of surface
and groundwater, Floods, droughts, Water logging and salinity, Dams –benefits and costs,
Conflicts over Water, Energy resources.
43
R15
UNIT III
Environmental Pollution and its Control: Classification of pollution and pollutants, Air
pollution, Causes, Effects, Control measures, ambient air quality standards, water pollution
causes, effects, control measures, water quality standards, Marine pollution causes, effects &
control measures, noise pollution causes, effects and control measures, land pollution causes,
effects and control measures, solid waste management, e-waste management.
UNIT IV
Global environmental problems and global efforts: Nuclear hazards, Nuclear Pollution,
Global warming, Acid rains, ozone layer depletion, over population, hazardous waste. Clean
development mechanism, green building, carbon credits, carbon trading.
International Conventions/protocols: UNEP, UNFCC, Earth summit, Kyoto protocol,
Montreal protocol and Stockholm declaration.
UNIT V
Environmental policy, legislation, rules and regulations : National Environmental Policy
Environmental Protection act, Legal aspects Air (Prevention anc Control of pollution ) Act-
1981, Water( Prevention and Control of pollution ) Act-1974, Water pollution Cess Act-1977,
Forest Conservation Act, Municipal solid waste management and handling rules, biomedical
waste management and handling rules, hazardous waste management and handling rules .
Economy and Environment, The economy and environment interaction, Economics of
development, preservation and Conservation, Sustainability: theory and practices.
Environmental Impact Assessment, Rain water harvesting, cloud seeding and watershed
management.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Environmental Science - Y.Anjaneyulu, B S Publications.
2. Environmental studies - Deeksha dave, Cengage learning India Pvt. Ltd.
3. Environmental Science and Technology by M. Anji Reddy, B S Publications.
REFERENCES
1. Environmental Studies for UG Courses, Bharucha Erach, UGC Publications, Delhi, 2004.
2. Environmental Encyclopedia by Cunningham, W.P., et al., Jaico Publishing House,
Mumbai, 2003.
3. Environmental sciences and Engineering by P.Venugopal Rao, PHI Learning Pvt. Ltd.
44
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Year II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS12) ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS AND LAPLACE TRANSFORMS
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT & AE)
Course prerequisites: Differentiation and Integration
Course Objectives
• Understand the methods of solving first order differential equations and learn about
its applications to basic engineering problems
• Understand the methods of solving higher order differential equations and learn
about its applications to basic engineering problems
• Understand the method of series solutions of second order ordinary differential
equations
• Apply the convolution theorem to evaluate inverse Laplace Transform of the
functions
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Solve the problems in first order differential equations.
• Solve the problems in second order differential equations
• Obtain the series solutions of second order ordinary differential equations
• Learn Laplace Transform as a tool
UNIT I
Ordinary Differential Equations of First Order and Their Applications:
Differential equations of first order and first degree - Exact differential equation , Linear and
Bernoulli differential equation , Applications of differential equations of first order and first
degree - Newton’s law of cooling, Law of natural growth and decay, Orthogonal trajectories
and basic circuits(L-R Circuits, R-C Circuits).
UNIT II
Differential Equations of Higher Order and Their Applications:
Differential equations of higher order - homogeneous and non-homogenous type, differential
equations of second order and higher order with constant coefficients with right hand side term
of the type eax sin (ax), cos (ax), polynomials in x, eax V(x), x V(x) and method of variation of
parameters, applications to spring mass system ,Simple harmonic motion and L-C-R Circuits.
45
R15
UNIT III
Differential Equations with Variable Coefficients:
Euler-Cauchy’s 2nd order differential equations, Series solutions of second order Ordinary
Differential Equations, Regular point, Regular singular point, Frobineous Method.
UNIT IV
Laplace Transforms:
Existence condition, Laplace transform of Elementary functions, Properties of Laplace
transforms, Laplace transform of special functions (Unit step function, Dirac delta function and
Periodic function).
UNIT V
Inverse Laplace Transforms:
Inverse Laplace transform of functions using partial fractions, Convolution theorem (statement
only). Solving linear differential equations and Integro-differential eqations using Laplace
transform.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – B. S. Grewal,Khanna publishers.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa Publications.
REFERENCES
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher: John Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher: Cengage
Learning.
3. A First Course in Differential Equations by Dennis G. Zill; Publisher: Brooks Cole publiers.
46
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Year II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS22) PHYSICS OF MATERIALS
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: General Physics
Course Objectives
• Learn basic structures and classifications of solids
• Study various dielectric, magnetic and size dependent properties of materials
• Visualise different kinds of materials in engineering and technology
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Identify different types of crystals, their defects and importance of X-ray studies in
crystals
• Recognize materials’ magnetic, dielectric and size dependent behavior
• Showcase some applications of crystals and different kinds of materials in
engineering
UNIT I
Crystal Structures: Space lattice – Unit cell – Lattice parameters – Crystal systems – Bravais
lattice- Atomic radius – Co-ordination number - Structures and Packing fractions of Simple
Cubic – Body Centered Cubic – Face Centered Cubic – Hexagonally closed packed &
diamond Cubic Crystals.
Bonding in Solids: Force and energy between two approaching atoms, primary and
secondary bonds, binding energy and cohesive energy, Madelung constant, cohesive energy
and Madelung constant for NaCl crystal
UNIT II
Directions, Planes and X-RD: Miller Indices for Crystal planes and directions – Inter planar
spacing of orthogonal crystal systems –Diffraction of X-rays by crystal planes and Bragg’s
law– Laue method – Powder method.
Defects in Solids: Imperfections in crystals – Point defects (Vacancies, Interstitial and
Impurities) Schottky and Frenkel defects – (with mathematical treatment)- Line imperfections
– Edge and Screw dislocation – Burger vector – Surface defects and volume defects
(Qualitative Treatment).
47
R15
UNIT III
Magnetic Properties of Materials: Permeability, Field intensity, magnetic field induction,
Magnetization and Magnetic susceptibility – Origin of magnetic moment, Bohr magneton –
Classification of magnetic materials (Dia, Para and Ferro)- Domain theory of ferromagnetism,
Hysteresis curve – Soft and Hard magnetic materials – Ferrites and their applications.
UNIT IV
Dielectric Properties: Electric dipole, Dipole moment, Dielectric constant, Electronic, Ionic
and Orientation Polarization – Calculation of Polarizibilities – Internal fields – Claussius –
Mossotti equation –Piezo and Ferro electricity
Superconductors: Experimental survey and superconductivity phenomenon, – Meissner
effect – Critical fields and Persistent currents, Type I and Type II superconductors - London
equations- flux quantization, Applications of Superconductors.
UNIT V
Science & Technology of Nanomaterials: Work function, Thermionic emission, Contact
Potential, Electron Microscope, Scanning Tunneling Microscope. Origin of nano science –
(Basic principles of Nanoscience & Technology) surface to volume ratio, quantum confinement
– Fabrication of nano materials ,Bottom up fabrication: sol-gel & combustion methods – Top
down fabrication: CVD& PVD methods– Applications of nanotechnology.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel (Publishers: John Wiley & Sons).
2. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd.
REFERENCES
1. Solid State Physics by A.J.Dekker; Macmillan Publishers India Ltd.
2. Engineering Physics by G. Sahashra Buddhe; University Press.
3. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers.
4. Engineering Physics by M.R.Srinivasan, New Age Publishers.
5. Solid State Physics by M.A. Wahab.
48
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Year II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS32) ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Basic knowledge of mathematics and chemistry
Course Objectives
• Understanding the concept of generating electricity by batteries
• Conceptual knowledge of corrosion science
• Acquiring the knowledge of preparation, properties and usage of polymers.
• Applying the concept of hardness to analyze various boiler troubles in steam
generation
• Familiarize the features of carbon nanotubes, composites and self- healing
materials
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Interpret the chemical applications of the various types of batteries used in the
present day world
• Acquire the knowledge of corrosion for protecting structures and safeguarding the
economy
• Evaluate the suitability of various polymers for different applications
• Analyze and compare the different softening techniques of water
• Summarize the applications of carbon nanotubes, composites and self- healing
materials
UNIT I
Batteries and Fuel Cells: Electrochemistry-definition, types of cells- differences between
electrolytic and electrochemical cells, conditions of reversibility, principle of batteries, Primary
cells-(Dry cell, Mercury battery) and secondary cells -lead-acid cell; Ni-Cd cell; lithium- ion
cells (intercalated); Fuel cells : methanol – oxygen fuel cell, advantages of fuel cells; Solar
cells - principle and applications.
UNIT II
Corrosion and its Control: Introduction; Causes and effects of corrosion; Theories of
corrosion – chemical and electrochemical corrosion (reactions); Types of corrosion (
Differential aeration corrosion: pitting, crevice and waterline corrosion, Differential metal
corrosion: galvanic corrosion) ; Factors affecting corrosion – nature of metal (position of metal
in galvanic series-differences between electrochemical & galvanic series; passivity; purity of
49
R15
metal; nature of oxide film; nature of corrosion product), and nature of environment (effect of
temperature; effect of pH; humidity; formation of oxygen concentration cells).
Corrosion control methods – cathodic protection-sacrificial anode and impressed current
cathodic protection.
Surface coatings –differences between galvanizing and tinning; cladding; electroplating
(copper plating), Paints - constituents and functions.
UNIT III
Polymers
Plastics: Thermoplastic resins, and Thermosetting resins, fabrication of plastics –
compression, injection. Preparation, properties, and engineering applications of PE, PVC,
Teflon, Bakelite, Nylon and Kevlar.
Rubber: Processing and vulcanization, preparation, properties, and engineering applications
of Buna-S; Butyl rubber and Thiokol rubber.
UNIT IV
Water and its Treatment: Introduction; Hardness - causes, expression of hardness, units,
types of hardness, numerical problems. Estimation of temporary & permanent hardness of
water by EDTA method (no numerical problems). Boiler troubles - scale & sludge formation,
caustic embrittlement, boiler corrosion, priming & foaming. Softening of water by zeolite and
ion exchange process (no numerical problems), Desalination processes - reverse osmosis.
UNIT V
Smart materials
Nanomaterials: Introduction; preparation and applications of nanomaterials with special
reference to carbon nanotubes.
Composites: Need for composites, classification based on reinforcing material (Fiber
reinforced composites –glass, carbon and aramid), applications of composites.
Self-healing materials: Definition, features, principle of self-healing materials and their
applications.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna Cherukuri; Publisher:
VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain & Monica Jain, Publisher: Dhanpatrai Publishing
Company.
REFERENCES
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara & Mukkanti; Publisher: S.Chand &
Co.
2. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna; McGraw Hill Edu.Pvt.Ltd.
3. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, Sulochana
Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
4. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi, Cengage Learning
Publications.
50
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Year II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS01) ENGLISH
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT & AE)
Course Prerequisites: General English
Introduction
This is the age of information and communication technologies. Engineers and technical
professionals need to convey technical information in English for various purposes.
Besides learning general English as an international language, engineering students need to be
equipped with adequate writing ability so that they can communicate technical information clearly on
at least a basic level. A good English writing proficiency can be a contributing factor to professional
recognition and career prospects. This course teaches those writing strategies that scientists,
engineers, and others will need in order to write successfully on the job. It initiates the students into
Technical Writing. The purposes of technical writing are to inform and persuade. This program aims
to train students in writing clear, concise and effective English and also develop their reading skills.
This Syllabus is therefore, a Pragmatic English Writing and Reading Program for engineering
students with intermediate proficiency. The program covers a syllabus outline and instructional
approaches on basic writing and reading skills with particular reference to technical writing.
Course Objectives:
• To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for academic writing and speaking.
• To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns, reading
techniques and grammatical constructions required in technical writing as well as oral
communication.
• To acquaint the students with the writing process in preparation for academic and
workplace writing.
• Equip the students with the concept of coherence and cohesion for meaningful and
coherent communication.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
• Comprehend technical writing produced in the engineering profession
• Understand the writing process and create logical paragraphs
• Use infrastructural patterns in writing and speaking
• Students communicate coherently orally and in writing.
Methodology
A Task-based, process oriented methodology will be used by the teachers to give a practical
orientation to the teaching of language. An inductive approach will be used to demonstrate the use
of language in context. This should enable the students to internalize the language structures and
vocabulary used in context. Students will be exposed to numerous examples and ample practice will
be given in the contextual use of language structures.
Syllabus Outline
Unit I : Review of Grammar
i) Common Errors v) Use of Articles and Prepositions
ii) Subject-Verb Agreement vi) Conjunctions
iii) Adverbs vii) pronoun reference
iv) Transitional elements
51
R15
Unit II : Prose 1
• Heaven’s Gate by Pico Iyer
• The Connoisseur by Nergis Dalal
Unit III Reading and Writing Skills
• Reading Comprehension -- Skimming & scanning
• Reading Comprehension -- Intensive & extensive reading
• Paragraph Writing
• Letter Writing
• Memo Writing
Unit IV : Prose 2
• The Cuddalore Experience by Anu George
• The Odds Against Us by Satyajit Ray
Unit V : Writing Skills
1. Comparison and Contrast Pattern
2. Cause and Effect Pattern
3. Classification
4. Analogy (Introductory Level)
5. Problem-Solution Pattern
Prescribed Text Books
• Enjoying Everyday English by A. Ramakrishna Rao
• Effective Technical Communication by Ashraf Rizvi
• Technical Writing Process and Product by Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson 3rd
edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
References
• M. Raman and S. Sharma, 2004; Technical Communication : Principles and Practices,
OUP, (Indian Edition)
• Blanton, L.L. 1993; Composition Practice, Book 4 ,Second Edition, Heinle & Heinle
Publishers, pp. 54
• Georges, T.M. 1996; A course in Analytical Writing for Science and Technology,
http://www.mspiggy.etl.noaa.gov/write/
52
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Year II Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5CE02) ENGINEERING MECHANICS – II
(Common to CE, ME & AE)
Course Prerequisite: Physics, Mathematics, Engineering Mechanics – I
Course Objectives
• Understand the assumptions in the analysis of trusses and list the types of trusses
• Understand the principle of virtual work and its applications
• Distinguish between statics and dynamics & kinematics and kinetics
• Understand the work-energy principle and impulse-momentum principle
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Determine the member forces in trusses using method of joints and method of sections
• Apply virtual work principle to beams, ladder and rod problems to determine the
unknown forces
• Solve the kinematics and kinetics problems
• Apply work-energy principle to solve the rigid body problems
UNIT I
Trusses: Types of frames – Analysis of pin jointed frames – Assumptions - Method of Joints -
Method of Sections - Force table - Cantilever Trusses - Trusses with one end hinged and the
other freely supported on rollers carrying horizontal or inclined loads.
UNIT II
Virtual Work: Concept of virtual work - Principle of virtual work - Application of principle of
virtual work to beams - ladders and framed structures.
UNIT III
Kinematics: Kinematics of particles – Kinematics of Rectilinear motion – Kinematics of
Curvilinear motion – Projectiles – Kinematics of rigid bodies about a fixed axis.
53
R15
UNIT IV
Kinetics: Kinetics of particles – Newton’s Second Law – Differential equations of rectilinear
and curvilinear motion – Dynamic equilibrium – Inertia force - D’ Alembert’s Principle applied
for rectilinear and curvilinear motion - Kinetics of rigid bodies.
UNIT V
Work - Energy, Impulse - Momentum: Work of a force - Principle of Work and Energy -
Application of principle of Work-Energy - Impulse-Momentum Principle, Application of Impulse
- Momentum principle to connected bodies.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering Mechanics by Timoshenko and Young, Tata Mc-Graw Hill Publishers.
2. Singer’s Engineering Mechanics by K. Vijaya Kumar Reddy, BS Publishers.
3. Engineering Mechanics by S.S. Bhavikatti, New age International Publishers.
REFERENCES
1. Engineering Mechanics (Dynamics) by Meriam & Kraige
2. Engineering Mechanics by Tayal
3. Engineering Mechanics by R.K. Rajput
54
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Year II Semester L T/P/D C
0 6 3
(5ME52) ENGINEERING GRAPHICS – II
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Graphics -I
Course Objectives
• Learn the concepts of section of solids, development of surfaces
• Understand and remember the intersection of various solids
• Know the various types of projections- orthographic to isometric and vice-versa
• Understand and remember the principles of perspective projections
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply the concepts of sections and solve the problems on attaining true shape of
section and obtain the development of surfaces of various solids using AutoCAD
• Solve the problems on intersection of solids like prism vs prism, cylinder vs cylinder
and cylinder vs cone, using AutoCAD
• Apply the concepts of isometric projections and solve the problems in Auto CAD
• Apply the concepts of perspective projections and solve the problems in Auto CAD
UNIT I
Sections and Sectional Views: Sections of right regular solids-prisms, pyramids, cylinders
and cones – auxiliary views
Development of Surfaces: Development of surfaces of right regular solids prisms, pyramids,
cylinders and cones.
UNIT II
Intersection of Solids: Intersection of prism Vs prism, cylinder vs prism, cylinder vs cylinder
and cylinder vs cone
UNIT III
Isometric Projections: Principles of isometric projections, Isometric scale, isometric views,
conventions, isometric views of lines, planes, simple and compound solids, isometric views of
objects having spherical parts.
55
R15
UNIT IV
Transformation of Projections: Conversion of isometric views to orthographic views -
conventions for simple objects. Construction of orthographic projections for given isometric
projections.
UNIT V
Perspective Projections: Perspective view of points, lines, plane figures and simple solids,
vanishing point method and visual ray method.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Elementary Engineering Drawing by N.D.Bhat; Publisher: Charotar Publishing House.
2. Engineering Drawing by K.L. Narayana and P. Kannaiah; Publisher: Scitech Publications.
REFERENCE
1. Engineering Graphics for degree by K.C. John; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
56
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Year II Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5ME53) IT AND ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Basic knowledge about different Trades, computer hardware,
Operating System, different trades in mechanical engineering.
Course Objectives
• To study/demonstrate the concepts of computer w.r.t. it’s hardware.
• To install the operating system and perform various tasks
• To conduct the experiments related to production engineering technology.
• To demonstrate the usage of power tools, CNC lathe and machine shop for different
exercises
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Identify, assemble and dissemble the given configuration of a computer.
• Install the operating system in the given configuration of a computer and execute
commands for LINUX Operating System
• To develop components using the techniques of carpentry, tin smithy, forging, etc.
listed in trades for exercises.
• To work out the given models in machine shop and CNC lathe.
IT WORKSHOP
1. Computer Hardware: Identification of Peripherals
2. Study of UPS and SMPS
3. Assembling and disassembling of a PC
4. Simple diagnostic exercises – Related to hardware
5. Installation of Windows Operating System
6. Installation of Linux Operating System
7. Linux Basic Commands
8. Simple diagnostic exercises –Related to Operating System
TEXTBOOKS
1. IT Essentials PC Hardware and Software Companion Guide Third Edition by Davis
Anfinson and Ken Quamme – CISCO Press, Pearson Education.
2. PC Hardware and A+ Handbook – Kate J. Chase PHI (Microsoft).
57
R15
ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
TRADES FOR EXCERCISES
At least two exercises from each trade
1. Carpentry
2. Tin-Smithy
3. Fitting
4. Welding
5. Electrical Wiring
TRADES FOR DEMONSTRATION and EXPOSURE:
1. Power tools in construction, wood working, electrical engineering and mechanical
engineering
2. Machine shop
3. CNC Lathe
4. 3D Printing
TEXT BOOK
1. Workshop Manual by P.Kannaiah and K.L.Narayana; Publisher: Scitech.
58
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. I Year II Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS02) ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT & AE)
Course Prerequisites: General English
The English language Communication Skills Lab aims to provide practice in all the four skills of
LSRW, with a special emphasis on listening and speaking skills.
Course Objectives
• Provide ample practice in LSRW skills and train the students in oral presentations,
public speaking, role play and situational dialogue.
• Provide practice in word usage, grammatical construction, structural patterns, and
improve comprehension abilities in the students.
• Train students to use neutral pronunciation through phonetic sounds, symbols,
stress and intonation.
• Enable students to transfer information from verbal to graphic representation and
vice versa.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
• Comprehend spoken and written discourse.
• Speak fluently with neutral pronunciation and exhibit interpersonal skills.
• Write accurately, coherently and lucidly making appropriate use of words depending
on context and present data clearly.
• Introduce oneself to people and be able to speak extempore.
Syllabus for Lab Sessions
Unit 1
Computer Aided Language Lab:
• Grammar : Nouns and Pronouns; Articles; The Present Tense
• Vocabulary: Lesson 1
• Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: Introduction of Self and others
Unit 2
Computer Aided Language Lab:
1. Grammar: Concord; Adjectives; The Past Tense
2. Vocabulary: Lesson 2
3. Listening Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Seeking and Giving Information, Giving and Taking
Instructions
59
R15
Unit 3
Computer Aided Language Lab:
Grammar --- Adverbs, Conjunctions, Prepositions; The Future Tense
• Vocabulary: Lesson 3
• Telephoning Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Role Play/ Situational Dialogues
Unit 4
Computer Aided Language Lab:
1. Grammar ---- Active and Passive Voice
2.Vocabulary: Lesson 4
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: i) JAM/ Short Talk ii) Information Transfer a) Interpretation of
Graph
Unit 5
Computer Aided Language Lab:
1. Introduction to Technical Writing
A. Definition of a Technical Term
B. Description of a Mechanism
C. Description of a Technical Process
2. Vocabulary: Lesson 5
Communication Skills Lab : Presentation Skills: Oral Presentation
Computer Aided Language Lab Requirements:
The English Language Lab shall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Lab for 30 students with 30 systems, one master
console, LAN facility and English language software for self- study by
learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Lab with conference tables and movable chairs for 30
students and audio-visual aids with a P.A System, a T. V., a digital stereo –audio &
video system and a camcorder
• System Requirement (Hardware component):
Computer network with Lan with 30 multimedia systems with the following
specifications:
• P – IV Processor
• Speed – 2.8 GHZ
• RAM – 512 MB Minimum
• Hard Disk – 80 GB
• Headphones of High quality
iv) Suggested Resources:
Software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above may be procured and
used. Additionally, the abundantly available online resources may also be used.
List of suggested software:
• Tense Busters (5 Levels)
• Walden Educare
60
R15
• Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
• DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill
Practice.
• Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
• TOEFL & GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO & BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE
by CLIFFS)
61
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Year I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS14) PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS WITH APPLICATIONS AND COMPLEX
ANALYSIS
(Common to EEE, ME & AE)
Course prerequisites: Differentiation, integration
Course Objectives:
• Compute Fourier coefficients.
• Understand the properties of Fourier transforms.
• Apply Method of Separation of Variables to solve Partial Differential Equations.
• Apply Cauchy theorem, Cauchy’s Integral formula and Residue theorem to evaluate
complex integration.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Solve problems using Fourier series.
• Evaluate problems involving Fourier and Inverse Fourier transforms.
• Solve the second order linear partial differential equations by Method of Separation
of Variables and Fourier series.
• Evaluate line and Contour integrals.
UNITI
Standard Partial Differential Equations: Introduction to partial differential equations,Method
of seperation of variables, Applications: Problems of vibrating string- wave equation, Problems
of one-dimensional heat equation, Problems of steady state two dimensional heat flow-
Laplace equation.
UNIT II
Fourier Series: Fourier Series of periodic functions, Euler’s formulae, Fourier series of even
and odd functions, having arbitrary periods, half range Fourier series.
UNIT III
Fourier Transforms: Fourier transform, Sine and Cosine transforms and their properties.
UNITIV
Functions of a Complex variable: Functions of a complex variable, Continuity,
Differentiability, Analyticity, Cauchy-Riemann equations in Cartesian and polar coordinates,
Harmonic and conjugate harmonic functions, Milne – Thompson method.
UNIT V
Integration of Complex function, Power series and Residues: Line integral, evaluation
along a path and by indefinite integration. Cauchy’s Integral theorem, Cauchy’s Integral
62
R15
formula.Expansion of Taylor’s series and Laurent series (without proofs). Singular point,
Isolated singular point, pole of order m, essential singularity. Residues – Evaluation of residue
by formulae, Residue theorem, Evaluation of real integrals.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – B. S. Grewal,Khanna publishers.
2. Complex Variables & Its Applications- Churchill and Brown, (1996), International Edition,
McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES
1. Advance Engineering Mathematics - Peter O’Neil,(2000),5th Edition, Cengage Learning
2. Schaum’s Outline Of Complex Variables - Murray.R.Spiegel,(2011), 2nd Edition, Tata
McGraw Hill.
63
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Year I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5ME01) MECHANICS OF SOLIDS
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics and Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives
• List and define the material properties and show the relationships between them.
• Describe principles of mechanics, stress and strain
• Demonstrate thoroughly the concepts of principal stresses applied to solid structural
members and mohr’s circle diagram
• Analyse various types of mechanical engineering problems concern to bending of
beams, torsion of shafts etc.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Show basic stress strain equations with appropriate assumptions
• Interpret model and analyze solid mechanics problems on bars,beams and shafts
• Apply the concepts of principal stresses in real life design issues
• Analyse and develop beams, shats for various applications
UNIT I
Tension, Compression and Shear: Introduction: Normal Stress and Strain; Stress-strain
diagrams; Elasticity and plasticity; Linear elasticity and Hooke’s law; Allowable stress and
allowable loads.
Axially Loaded Members: Introduction: Deflections of axially loaded members; Strain energy;
Dynamic loading.
Thermal Stresses
UNIT II
Shear Force and Bending Moment Diagrams: Types of beams; Types of loading; Shear
force and bending moment; Relationship between load, shear force and bending moment;
Shear force and bending moment diagrams.
Torsion: Introduction: Torsion of circular bars; Non uniform torsion; Pure shear; Relationship
between modulus of elasticity E and G; Transmission of power by circular shafts.
64
R15
UNIT III
Area moment of inertia of composite sections.
Stresses in Beams: Introduction: Normal strains in beams; Normal stresses in beams; Cross-
sectional shapes of beams-C, angular and semicircle structures; Shear stresses in rectangular
beams; Shear stress in webs of beams with flanges; Shear stress in circular beams (solid and
hollow sections); Concept of shear center and shear flow
UNIT IV
Analysis of Stress and Strain: Introduction: Plane stress; Principal stresses and maximum
shear stresses; Mohr’s circle for plane stress; Hooke’s law for plane stress; Spherical and
cylindrical pressure vessels (biaxial stress; Hoop and longitudinal stresses); Combined
loadings (plane stress); Principal stresses in beams.
UNIT V
Deflections of Beams: Introduction: Differential equations of the deflection curve; Deflections
by integration of the bending moment equation; Deflections by integration of the shear-force
and load equations; Macaulay’s method; Moment area method; Method of superposition.
TEXT BOOK
3. Mechanics of Materials (SI units) by J.M.Gere and S.P.Timoshenko; Publisher: CBS
Publishers.
4. Strength of Materials by S. S. Rattan, Publisher: Tata McGraw-Hill Education.
REFERENCES
1. Engineering Mechanics of Solids by Popov; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Strength of Materials Schaum’s Series.
65
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Year I Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5ME02) THERMODYNAMICS
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Physics
Course Objectives
• Apply the basic concepts of thermodynamics and Thermodynamic Laws for various
thermodynamic systems
• Evaluate the properties of pure substance and to analyse the concept of
irreversibility and availability
• Apply the basic concept of power cycles for External combustion engines and
internal combustion engines
• Evaluate the behaviour of ideal gas mixtures and Thermodynamic properties
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply the basic concepts of thermodynamics and Thermodynamic Laws for various
thermodynamic systems
• Evaluate the properties of pure substance and to analyse the concept of
irreversibility and availability
• Apply the basic concept of power cycles for External combustion engines and
internal combustion engines
• Evaluate the behaviour of ideal gas mixtures and Thermodynamic properties of the
given mixture of gases
UNIT I
Concepts and Definitions: Thermodynamic system and control volume; Macroscopic
versus microscopic point of view; Properties and state of a substance; Processes and cycles,
Energy, Specific volume and density, Equality of temperature; The Zeroth law of
thermodynamics; Temperature scales.
Work and Heat: Definition of work; Units for work; Work done at the moving boundary of a
simple compressible system; Other systems that involve work; Definition of heat; Heat
transfer modes; Comparison of heat and work.
The First Law of Thermodynamics: The first law of thermodynamics for a control mass
undergoing a cycle; The first law of thermodynamics for a change in state of a control mass;
Internal energy-a thermodynamic property; Problem analysis and solution technique; Enthalpy;
66
R15
The constant-volume and constant-pressure specific heats; The internal energy, enthalpy, and
specific heat of ideal gases; The first law as a rate equation.
First Law Analysis for a Control Volume: Conversion of mass and the control volume, The
first law of thermodynamics for a control volume, The steady-state process; Examples of
steady-state processes.
UNIT II
The Second Law of Thermodynamics: Heat engines and refrigerators; The second law of
thermodynamics; The reversible process; Factors that render processes irreversible; The Carnot
cycle; Two propositions regarding the efficiency of a Carnot cycle; The thermodynamic
temperature scale; The ideal-gas temperature scale; Ideal versus real machines.
Entropy for a Control Mass: The inequality of Clausius; Entropy — a property of a system;
The entropy of a pure substance; Entropy change in reversible processes; The thermodynamic
property relation; Entropy change of an ideal gas; The reversible polytropic process for an ideal
gas; Entropy change of a control mass during an irreversible process; Entropy generation; Principle
of increase of entropy; Entropy as a rate equation.
UNIT III
Irreversibility and Availability: Available energy; Available energy Referred to a cycle;
Quality of energy; Maximum work in a reversible process; reversible work by an open system;
Exchanging heat only with the surroundings; Useful work; Dead state; Availability; Availability
in chemical reaction; Irreversibility and Gouy-stodola Theorem; Availability or Exergy Balance;
second law efficiency.
Properties of a Pure Substance: The pure substance; Vapor- liquid- solid- phase equilibrium
in a pure substance; Independent properties of a pure substance; Steam Tables;
Thermodynamic surfaces; The compressibility factor; Equations of state.
UNIT IV
Power Cycles: Introduction to power systems; The Rankine cycle; Effect of pressure and
temperature on the Rankine cycle; Air-standard power cycles; The Brayton cycle; The air-
standard cycle for jet propulsion; Reciprocating engine power cycles; The Otto cycle; The
Diesel cycle; The Dual cycle, The Stirling cycle; The Atkinson and Miller cycles
UNIT V
Ideal Gas Mixtures: Ideal Gas;Real Gas; Internal Energy and Enthalpy of an Ideal Gas; Specific
Heats of an ideal gas; Equations of state; Virial Expansions; Law of Corresponding states; Boyle
Temperature; Dalton’s Law of Partial Pressures; Thermodynamic Properties of Gas Mixtures; Gibbs
Function of Ideal Gas Mixtures.
67
R15
Thermodynamic Property Relations: Mathematical relations for a homogeneous phase; The
Maxwell relations; Thermodynamic relations involving enthalpy, internal energy, and entropy;
The Clapeyron equation; Joule-Thompson coefficient; Real gas behavior and equations of
state.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering Thermodynamics by P.K. Nag, Publisher: McGraw-Hill.
2. Engineering Thermodynamics by P.Chattopadhyay, Oxford University Press.
REFERENCES
1. Fundamentals of Thermodynamics by C. Borgnakke, R.E. Sonntag, and G.J. Van Wylen;
Publisher John Wiley.
2. Engineering Thermodynamics by Burgadt, Harper & Row Publication.
3. Thermodynamics — An engineering approach by Yunus Cengel and Boles; Publisher:
TMH.
68
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Year I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5ME03) METALLURGY AND MATERIAL SCIENCE
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics and Chemistry
Course Objectives
• Understand the microstructures of different types of metal and alloys –cast iron,
steels, non ferrous metal and alloys
• Understand the heat treatment principles-annealing, normalizing and hardening
• Understand the different types of tools
• Able to understand the importance of Titanium & its alloys
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Distinguish different types of metals and alloys.
• Design a heat treatment process to change the properties-hardness, ductility, etc.
• Analyze the failure of metals and alloys.
• Explain & justify the usage of Titanium & its alloys.
UNIT I
Metal Structure and Crystallization: Introduction, atom binding, ionic bond, covalent bond,
metallic bond, and Vander Waals forces; Crystal imperfections
Overview of Metal Structure and Crystallization. Constitution of alloys: Introduction,
classification of alloys or compounds; Pure metal; Intermediate alloy phase or compound -
intermetallic compounds or valency compounds, interstitial compounds, and electron
compounds; Solid solutions; Substitution solid solution - factors that control the range of
solubility in alloy system; Interstitial solid solutions.
UNIT II
Phase Diagrams: Introduction; Coordinates of phase diagrams; Experimental methods -
construction of equilibrium diagrams by thermal analysis, metallographic methods, and X-ray
diffraction; Type-I-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid and solid states; Chemical
composition of phases; relative amounts of each phase; Equilibrium cooling of a solid solution
alloy; Diffusion; Nonequilibrium cooling; Homogenization; Properties of solid-solution alloys;
Variation of Type I; Type II-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid state and completely
insoluble in the solid state; Type III-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid state but only
69
R15
partly soluble in the solid state; Properties of eutectic alloy systems; Age hardening – solution
treatment, and aging process; Type IV-The congruent-melting intermediate phase; Type V-The
peritectic reaction; Type VI-Two liquids partly soluble in the liquid state: the monotectic
reaction; Type VII-two metals insoluble in the liquid and solid states; Interrelation of basic
types; Transformations in the solid state - allotropy, order-disorder transformation, the
eutectoid reaction, the peritectoid reaction, and complex diagrams; Study of important binary
phase diagrams of Cu-Ni, Al-Si, Sb-Pb, Pt-Ag, Bi-Cd, Cu-Pb, Cu-Sn and Fe- Fe C.
3
UNIT III
The Heat Treatment of Steel: Introduction; Full Annealing; Spheroidizing; Stress-relief
annealing; Process annealing; Normalizing; Hardening; The isothermal transformation
diagram; Transformation to Pearlite and Bainite; Cooling curves and I-T Diagram;
Transformation on continuous cooling; Position of the I-T curves; Hardening or austenitizing
temperature; Homogeneity of austenite; Mechanism of heat removal during quenching - vapor-
blanket cooling state (stage A), vapor transport cooling stage (stage B), Liquid cooling stage
(stage C); Quenching medium; Temperature of quenching medium; Surface condition -
methods to minimize the formation of scale - copper plating, protective atmosphere, liquid-salt
pots, and cast-iron chips; Size and Mass; Hardenability; Use of Hardenability data; Tempering;
Austempering; Surface heat treatment or case hardening; Carburizing; Heat treatment after
carburizing; Cyaniding and Carbonitriding; Nitriding; Flame hardening; Induction Hardening;
Residual Stresses; Hardenable carbon steels; Effect of cryogenic heat treatment – A brief
study.
UNIT IV
Alloy Steels: Introduction; Purpose of alloying; Effect of alloying elements upon Ferrite; Effect
of alloying elements upon carbide; Influence of alloying elements on the iron-iron carbide
diagram; Effect of alloying elements in tampering; Classification of steels - nickel steel,
chromium steel, nickel-chromium steels, manganese steels, molybdenum steels, tungsten
steels, vanadium steels, silicon steels, stainless steels, martensitic stainless steels, ferritic
stainless steels, austenitic stainless steels, precipitation-hardening stainless steels, maraging
steels, and ausforming.
Tool Steels: Classification of tool steels; Selection of tool steels; Comparative properties;
Non-deforming properties; Depth of hardening; Toughness; Wear resistance; Red-hardness;
Machinability; Resistance to decarburization; Brand names; Water-hardening tool steels
(Group W); Shock resisting tool steels (Group S); Cold-work tool steels; Hot-work tool steels
(Group H); High speed tool steels; Mold Steels (Group P); Special purpose tool steels; Heat
treatment of tool steels; Overview of tool failures; Special cutting materials – stellites,
cemented carbides, and ceramic tools.
70
R15
UNIT V
Cast Iron: Introduction; Types of cast iron; White cast iron; Malleable cast iron; Pearlitic
malleable iron; Gray cast iron; Silicon in cast iron; Sulfur in cast iron; Manganese in cast iron;
Phosphorus in cast iron; Heat treatment of grey iron, Size and distribution of graphite flakes;
Mechanical properties and applications of grey cast iron; Chilled cast iron; Nodular cast iron;
Alloy cast irons.
Non-Ferrous Metals and Alloys: Introduction; Copper and its alloys - Copper, temper
designation of copper and copper alloys, and copper alloys; Aluminum and its alloys -
Aluminum, Alloy designation system, and temper designation; Titanium and Titanium alloys.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Physical Metallurgy by Sidney H. Avner; Publisher: McGraw-Hill.
2. Materials Science and Metallurgy by Kodigiri, publisher: Everest.
REFERENCES
1. Essentials of Materials Science and Engineering by Donald R. Askeland and Thomson.
2. Materials Science and Engineering by William and Collister.
3. Elements of Materials Science by V.Raghavan.
71
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Year I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5ME04) FLUID MECHANICS AND HYDRAULIC MACHINES
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics and Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives
• Understand the properties of fluids, principles of buoyancy, flow, force and head
calculations
• Evaluation of types of fluid flow, Laminar and dynamic
• Knowledge on boundary layer principles applied to aerofoiles
• Principles of operation of different types of hydraulic machinery
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Analyzing the fluid properties to solve flow, force and velocity problems
• Evaluating the flow characterizing in static and dynamic nature of flow
• Applying fluid flow and dynamics in solving problems in hydraulic machines
• Understanding the model analysis of hydraulic machinery and select appropriate
machines for hydro power plant
UNIT I
Fluid Statics: Properties of fluid – specific gravity, viscosity, surface tension, vapor pressure
and their influence on fluid motion, Pressure at a point, measurement of pressure, Forces on
immersed surfaces, Center of pressure, Buoyancy, Elements of stability of floating bodies.
Fluid Kinematics: Classification of flows, acceleration equations, Stream line, path line and
streak lines and stream tube, continuity equation, Stream function, velocity potential function.
UNIT II
Fluid Dynamics: Surface and body forces – Euler’s and Bernoulli’s equation, Venturimeter,
Orifice meter, Pitot tube, Reynolds experiment – Darcy Weisbach equation – Minor losses in
pipes – pipes in series and pipes in parallel. Momentum equation, force on pipe bend.
UNIT III
Boundary Layer Theory: Development of boundary layer along a thin flat plate, Laminar
boundary layer and turbulent boundary layer, Laminar sub layer, boundary layer separation,
Drag and lift forces - Aerofoils, pressure and form drags.
72
R15
Impact of Jets: Hydrodynamic force of jets on flat, inclined and curved vanes - jet striking
centrally and at tip, flow over radial vanes
UNIT IV
Hydraulic Turbines: Classification of turbines, design of Pelton wheel, Francis turbine and
Kaplan turbine – working proportion, work done, efficiency, draft tube- theory, functions and
efficiency. Geometric similarity, Unit and specific quantities, characteristic curves, governing of
turbines, selection of type of turbine, cavitation, surge tank and water hammer, elements of
hydropower plant.
UNIT V
Hydraulic Pumps: Classification, centrifugal pumps – types, working, work done, manometric
head, losses and efficiency, specific speed – pumps in series and parallel – performance
characteristic curves, NPSH, Reciprocating Pump – types, Working, Discharge, slip, indicator
diagrams.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Hydraulics and Fluid Mechanics Including Hydraulics Machines: Dr. P.N.Modi, Dr. S.M.
Seth.
2. Introduction to Fluid Mechanics, R. W. Fox, A. T. McDonald and P.J Pritchard.
REFERENCES
1. Fluid Mechanics, V. L. Streeter & E. B. Wylie.
2. Fluid Mechanics, fundamentals & applications - Yunus A. Çengel, John M. Cimbala.
3. Fluid Mechanics: F. M. White .
4. Fundamentals of Fluid Mechanics: Bruce Roy Munson, Donald F. Young, Theodore H.
Okiishi, Wade W. Huebsch Wiley Publication.
73
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Year I Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5ME54) METALLURGY AND MATERIAL SCIENCE LABORATORY
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Metallurgy and Material science
Course Objectives
• Understand the need of proper simplification for different materials
• Understand the significance microstructure of different materials under microscopic
testing
• Understand the changes in microstructures after different treatments
• Understand the microstructure of cutting tool
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Identify materials for micro structure
• Test microstructure of any given material and predict properties
• Prepare appropriate heat treatment for a given material by checking its
microstructure
• Examine the microstructure of cutting tool
Metallurgy lab (Six experiments)
1. Preparation and study of the microstructure of metals like Iron, Cu and Al
2. Preparation and study of the microstructure of mild steels, low carbon steels, and high
carbon steels
3. Study of the microstructures of cast irons
4. Study of the microstructures of non-ferrous alloys
5. Study of the microstructures of heat treated steels
6. Hardenability of steels by Jiminy end quench test
7. To find out the hardness of various treated and untreated steels
8. Study the microstructure of cutting tools
9. Study the micro structures of stainless steel
10. Study the different crystal structures of metals
74
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Year I Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5ME55) MECHANICS OF SOLIDS LABORATORY
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Mechanics of solids, Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives
• Analyze the various tests to be conducted on engineering materials
• The significance of tests in evaluating the corresponding mechanical properties
• Analyze the importance of technical parameters used during tests
• Applying the concepts learned in the real time
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply the theoretical concepts by conducting the tests on different materials
• Evaluate the result of test and comment on the mechanical properties of materials
• Decide a material and an appropriate test suitable for given application
• Analyze the significance of the tests in different fields of engineering
Mechanics of Solids lab
1. Direct tension test
2. Bending tests:
a) Simple supported beam
b) Cantilever beam
3. Torsion test
4. Hardness test
a) Brinell hardness test
b) Rockwell hardness test
5. Test on springs
6. Compression test on a cube
7. Impact test
8. Punch shear test
9. Mechanical advantage :
(a) Simple screw jack
(b) Compound screw jack
10. Moment of Inertia of a fly wheel
11. To Study various types of Strain Gauges
75
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Year I Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5ME56) FLUID MECHANICS AND HYDRAULIC MACHINES LABORATORY
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulic Machines
Course Objectives
• Analyzing the experiments to understand the concept, find the values and obtain the
result of experiments
• Apply fundamental principles of fluid mechanics for the solution of practical
mechanical engineering problems of water conveyance in pipes, orifices, mouth
pieces, notches & weirs
• Analyzing various pumps, water turbines, pipes and pressure measurement devices
• Evaluating efficiency for pumps and turbines
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply fundamental equations of fluid mechanics for turbines and pumps
• Model and analyse fluid flow problems in mechanical engineering
• Create a model of fluid flow equipments
• Evaluate the experimental results with theoretical concepts
Any 10 experiments to be conducted from the following
1. Verification of Bernoulli’s theorem
2. Calibration of Venturimeter / Orifice meter
3. Calibration of t notches
4. Determination of friction factor for a given pipe
5. Determination of Minor losses for the given equipment
6. Impact of jets on vanes
7. Performance test on Pelton wheel
8. Performance test on Francis turbine
9. Performance test on Kaplan turbine
10. Performance test on single stage centrifugal pump
11. Performance test on multi stage centrifugal pump
12. Performance test on reciprocating pump
76
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Year II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS13) COMPUTATIONAL METHODS
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Elementary transformations of matrices, differentiation and integration.
Course Objectives
• Understand the numerical methods for non linear systems, evaluating definite
integrals and solving Ordinary Differential Equations.
• Understand various methods of interpolation and application.
• Understand the Echolen form and Normal form of a matrix and its applications in
solving linear system of equations.
• Solving system of linear equations using Jacobi and Gauss-Seidal methods.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply the numerical methods to find a root of algebraic and transcendental
equations.
• Apply the numerical methods to find the solutions of ordinary differential equations.
• Find the rank using Echelon form, Normal form and compute eigen values.
• Solve linear equations using Jacobi method and Gauss-Seidal method
UNIT I
Solutions of non-linear systems: Introduction; Mathematical preliminaries; Solution of
algebraic and transcendental equations –bisection method, the method of false position,
Fixed point iterative method , Newton - Raphson method, and their order of convergence.
UNIT II
Interpolation: Introduction; Errors in polynomial interpolation; Finite differences; Forward
differences; Backward differences; Central differences; Symbolic relations and separation of
symbols; Differences of a polynomial; Newton’s formulae for interpolation; Central difference
interpolation formulae; Gauss’s central difference formulae and Lagrange’s interpolation
formulae.
UNIT III
Numerical differentiation and Integration: Numerical differentiation based on interpolation,
Numerical integration: Trapezoidal rule, Simpson’s 1/3 rule, and Simpson’s 3/8 rule, Gaussian
quadrature 2 & 3 point formulae.
77
R15
Numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations: Solution of initial value problems by
Taylor’s series - Picard’s method of successive approximations, Euler’s method, and Runge -
Kutta methods.
UNIT IV
Matrices: Elementary Transformations, Rank of matrix, Echelon and Normal forms,
Consistency of linear simultaneous equations, Eigen values and eigen vectors and their
properties, Caley – Hamilton theorem (without proof), Quadratic forms - reduction of quadratic
form to canonical form by linear(congruent) and orthogonal transformations.
UNIT V
Complex Matrices and Iterative Methods for Real Systems:Unitary, Hermitian and skew –
Hermitian matrices. Iterative methods for solving a system of linear equations (Jacobi method,
Gauss-Seidal algorithm) and Power method to find largest and smallest eigen values.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Numerical Methods in Engineering and Science–B.S. Grewal, 3rdedition Publisher:
Khanna Publishers.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa Publications.
REFERENCES
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher: John Wiley
and Sons.
2. Elementary Numerical Analysis – an algorithmic approach -Samuel D. Conte and Carl De
Boor (2006); 3rd edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill
(Beyond Syllabus: Types of errors and analysis)
78
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Year II Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5AE01) APPLIED THERMODYNAMICS
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics and Thermodynamics
Course Objectives
• Understand the first and second laws of thermodynamics
• Extend the application of thermodynamic principles to evaluate the performance
parameters of various systems
• Use mathematical skills to analyse thermodynamic systems
• Design of various thermodynamic systems
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply first and second laws of thermodynamics to various systems
• Evaluate the performance parameters of different thermodynamic systems
• Identify and analyse sub-systems of thermodynamic systems
• Design and synthesize the study flow thermodynamic systems
UNIT I
Steam Generators: Introduction, classification of boilers, working principles of fire tube and
water tube boilers, low pressure boilers, high pressure boilers, Babcock and Wilcox, Lamont
boiler, boiler draught and performance of boilers and equivalent evaporation.
Steam Condensers: Introduction, purpose and types of condenser, efficiency of condenser
and Edward air pump.
UNIT II
Steam Nozzles: Functions of nozzle, applications, types, flow through nozzles,
thermodynamic analysis, assumptions, velocity of nozzle at exit, ideal and actual expansion in
nozzle, velocity co-efficient, condition for maximum discharge and critical pressure ratio.
Steam Turbines: Classification, impulse turbine, mechanical details, velocity diagram, effect
of friction, power developed, axial thrust, diagram efficiency, condition for maximum efficiency
and methods to reduce rotor speed.
Reaction Turbine: Mechanical details, principle of operation, Thermodynamic analysis of a
stage, Degree of reaction, velocity diagram, parson’s reaction turbine and condition for
maximum efficiency.
79
R15
UNIT III
Compressors: Classification, power producing and power absorbing machines, fan, blower
and compressor, roots blower, vane blower, sealed compressor and Lysholm compressor –
working principle.
Reciprocating Compressors: Principle of operation, work required, isothermal efficiency,
volumetric efficiency and effect of clearance, multi stage compression, under cooling, saving of
work and minimum work condition for stage compression.
UNIT IV
Centrifugal Compressors: Mechanical details and principle of operation, velocity and
pressure variation, energy transfer, impeller blade shape-losses, slip factor, power input factor,
pressure co-efficient, adiabatic co-efficient, velocity diagrams and power requirement to run
the compressor.
Axial Flow Compressors: Mechanical details and principle of operation, velocity triangles
and energy transfer per stage degree of reaction, work done factor, isentropic efficiency,
pressure rise calculations and polytrophic efficiency
UNIT V
Gas Turbines: Classification of gas turbine plants, ideal cycle, essential components,
parameters of performance, actual cycle, regeneration, inter cooling and reheating.
Jet Propulsion and Rockets: Classification of Jet propulsion engines, principle of operation,
working principles with schematic diagram and representation on T- s diagram. Needs and
demands met by turbo jet engines, rockets, application, working principle, classification and
propellant type.
TEXT BOOKS
3. Rathod, Thermal Engineering, TMH Publications, 2012.
4. Ganesan V, Gas Turbines, TMH Publications, 2010.
REFERENCES
1. Rajput R K, Thermal Engineering, Laxmi Publications, 2010.
2. Mathur and Sharma, I.C. Engines, Dhanpath Rai & Sons, 2010.
3. Yadav R, Thermodynamics and Heat Engines, Central Book Depot, 2002.
4. Ballaney P L, Thermal Engineering, Khanna Publishers, 2010.
5. Khajuria P and Dubey S P, Gas Turbines and Propulsive systems, Dhanpat Rai & Sons,
2012.
80
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Year II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5AE02) AUTOMOTIVE ENGINES AND SYSTEMS
Course Prerequisites: Thermodynamics, Basic Electrical Engineering
Course Objectives
• Understand the fundamentals, principles and functions of an automotive engine and
sub-systems
• Present the constructional features of internal combustion engines
• Discuss testing and performance characteristics of an engine
• Identify engine emissions and regulations
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Know the fundamental concepts and functions of an automotive engine and sub-
systems
• Describe the constructional features of internal combustion engines
• Analyze testing and performance characteristics of an engine
• Summarize engine emissions and regulations
UNIT I
Introduction: Classification and components of an engine, principle and working of four stoke
and two stroke SI and CI engines. Comparison of theoretical and actual cycles and their
analysis. Wankel rotary engine.
Engine Construction: Cylinder head, cylinder block, crank case, sump, cooling passages,
cylinder liners, piston types, piston rings, connecting rods, crank shafts, valves, valve seat
inserts, valve actuating mechanisms and drive mechanisms.
UNIT II
Combustion and Combustion Chambers: Petrol engines - Ignition limits, stages of
combustion, effect of engine variables, knocking and detonation - theory, parameters affecting
and control, combustion chamber - different types and design. Diesel engines – Air/Fuel ratio,
stages of combustion, knocking and detonation - theory, parameters affecting and control,
combustion chamber - different types.
Fuel Feed Systems: Carburetor, Air/Fuel mixture proportions, cold start, idle, normal running
and acceleration and transfer circuits. Diesel fuel injection pump, construction and working
principles. Governing systems, types of fuel injectors and nozzles, Introduction to electronic
fuel injection system.
81
R15
UNIT III
Cooling and Lubrication Systems: Engine heat transfer, engine energy balance, necessity
of cooling, air-cooling, water cooling - thermosyphon and pump cooling, radiator, pump,
thermostat, antifreeze solution and radiator fan. Lubrication Systems – Mist, splash, forced,
dry sump and wet sump, oil filters and oil pumps.
UNIT IV
Supercharging and Turbocharging: Necessity of supercharging, mechanical supercharging
and turbocharging, compressors and turbines for supercharging, degree of supercharging,
methods of supercharging and efficiency of supercharged engine.
UNIT V
Engine Testing and Performance: Indicated power, brake power, engine torque, mechanical
efficiency, air standard efficiency, brake thermal efficiency, indicated thermal efficiency,
relative efficiency, volumetric efficiency and heat balance sheet.
Engine Emissions: Emissions, sources of emission, effect of pollution on human health and
emission norms.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Heinz Heisler, “Advanced Engine Technology”, SAE 1995.
2. Ganesan V, “Internal Combustion Engines”, 4th edition, Tata McGraw Hill, New Delhi,
2012.
REFERENCES
1. Richard Stone, “Fundamentals of Automotive Engines”, SAE Publications.
2. Obert E F, “Internal Combustion Engine analysis and Practice ", International Text Book
Co., Scranton, Pennsylvania, 1988.
3. John B Heywood, “Internal Combustion Engine Fundamentals”, McGraw Hill International
Editions, 1988.
4. Mathur L and Sharma R P, “Internal Combustion Engines”, Dhanpat Rai Publications (P),
Ltd, 8th edition, New Delhi.
82
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Year II Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5AE03) THEORY OF MACHINES
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Mathematics, Engineering Mechanics and Engineering
Drawing.
Course Objectives
• Know different machine elements and mechanisms
• Understand kinematic and dynamic characteristics of different mechanisms
• Select suitable drives and mechanisms for a particular application
• Discuss the concepts of balancing of masses and gyroscope
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Identify mechanisms and predict their motion
• Analyse kinematic and dynamic characteristics of different mechanisms
• Apply suitable drives and mechanisms
• Evaluate balancing of masses and gyroscope
UNIT I
Mechanisms and Machines: Introduction, mechanism and machine, rigid and resistant
bodies, link, kinematic pair, degrees of freedom, classification of kinematic pairs, kinematic
chain linkage, mechanism and structure and mobility of mechanisms.
The four-bar chain, the slider-crank chain and double slider-crank chain mechanisms,
inversions of these mechanisms and mechanical advantage.
Plane Motion of Body: Instantaneous center of rotation, centrode - relative motion between
two bodies-Three centers in line theorem.
UNIT II
Kinematics: Velocity and acceleration-motion of link in machine - Determination of velocity
and acceleration diagrams, graphical method, application of relative velocity method and four
bar chain.
Analysis of Mechanisms: Analysis of slider crank chain for displacement, velocity and
acceleration of slider- acceleration diagram for a given mechanism, Klein’s construction,
Coriolis acceleration, determination of Coriolis component of acceleration and dynamic
analysis of slider-crank mechanism.
83
R15
UNIT III
Cams: Definition of cam and followers-their uses-types of followers and cams-terminology-
types of follower motion-uniform velocity-simple harmonic motion and uniform acceleration,
maximum velocity and acceleration during outward and return strokes in the above three
cases. Analysis of motion of followers - Roller follower, circular cam with straight, concave and
convex flanks.
UNIT IV
Higher Pairs: Friction wheels and toothed gears-types-law of gearing, condition for constant
velocity ratio for transmission of motion, forms of teeth - Cycloidal and involute profiles.
Velocity of sliding - Phenomena of interference, methods of interference, condition for
minimum number of teeth to avoid interference, expression for arc of contact and path of
contact.
Gear Trains: Introduction, train value, types - Simple and reverted wheel trains, epicyclic gear
train, methods of finding train value or velocity ratio and selection of gear box differential gear
for an automobile.
UNIT V
Turning Moment Diagrams: Inertia torque, angular velocity and acceleration of connecting
rod, crank effort and torque diagrams.
Gyroscope: Angular velocity, angular acceleration, gyroscopic torque, gyroscopic effect on
naval ships, stability of an automobile and stability of a two-wheel vehicle.
Balancing: Introduction, static balancing, dynamic balancing, transference of a force from one
Plane to another, balancing of several masses in different planes, force balancing of linkages
and balancing of reciprocating mass.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Ratan S S, Theory of Machines, Tata McGraw Hill Publications, 2014.
2. Shigley, Theory of machines, Oxford University Press, 2010.
REFERENCES
1. Thomas Bevan, Theory of Machines, Pearson Education, 2005.
2. Khurmi R S and Gupta J K, Theory of machines, S. Chand Publications, 2005.
3. Bansal R K, Theory of machines, Laxmi Publications, 2011.
4. Sadhu Singh, Theory of machines, Pearson Education, 2006.
5. Ballaney P L, Theory of Machines, Khanna Publishers, 2001.
84
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Year II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EE23) BASIC ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
(Common to ME & AE)
Course prerequisites: Physics, Electrical Engineering & Electronics Engineering
Course Objectives
• Get awareness of using mechanical energy for electrical energy generation.
• Understand the working basic operation of circuits used for automobile control
• Know about working of different electrical machines used for propulsion of vehicles
• Know the working operation of diode and transistor
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Analyze the electro-mechanical energy conversion using electrical machines
• Analyze the different electrical machines used for propulsion of vehicles.
• Analyze different control circuits which involve different circuits parameters
• Analyze the operation of transistor and CRT
UNIT I
Electrical Circuits: Circuit Concept R-L-C parameters-Ohm’s law - Kirchhoff’s laws - Series -
Parallel resistive networks - Star/delta transformations.
AC Circuits: Average value, rms value, form factor of sinusoidal function, R-L, R-C and R-L-C
circuits- Concept of Power factor, Real and reactive powers simple problems.
UNIT II
DC Machines: Principle of operation of DC Generator – emf equation - types – Principle of
operation of DC Motor - DC motor types –torque equation – Three point starter -Swinburne’s
test, applications.
Transformers: Principle of operation of single phase transformer–emf equation–losses–OC
and SC tests - efficiency and regulation
UNIT III
AC Machines: Principle of operation of alternator – regulation by synchronous impedance
method –Principle of operation of induction motor – slip – torque characteristics – applications.
85
R15
Instruments: Principle and construction of permanent magnet moving coil and moving iron
instruments.
UNIT IV
Diode and it’s Characteristics: P-N junction diode, symbol, V-I Characteristics, Diode
Applications: Rectifiers – Half wave Full wave and Bridge rectifiers (simple Problems)
UNIT V
Transistors: PNP and NPN Junction transistor, Transistor as an amplifier, SCR
characteristics and applications
Cathode Ray Oscilloscope: Principles of CRT (Cathode Ray Tube), Deflection, Sensitivity,
Electrostatic and Magnetic deflection, Applications of CRO - Voltage, Current and frequency
measurements.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Electronic Devices and Circuits David A Bell Oxford University Press.
2. Introduction to Electrical Engineering – M.S Naidu and S. Kamakshaiah, TMH
Publications.
REFERENCES
1. Principles of Electrical and Electronics Engineering by V.K.Mehta, S.Chand & Co.
2. Basic Electrical Engineering by Kothari and Nagarath, TMH Publications, 2nd edition.
86
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Year II Semester - ME & AE L T/P/D C
0 6 3
(5ME57) MACHINE DRAWING
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Graphics
Course Objectives
• Remember the principles of machine drawing conventions
• Analyze the machine elements like screw threads, nuts, bolts, keys and riveted joins
• Remember the machine elements and simple parts like shaft couplings, Journal,
pivot and collar bearings
• Evaluate the different views of part drawings and based on that, draw the
assembled parts of engine and machine parts
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply the knowledge of machine drawing conventions
• Analyze and draw the machine elements like screw threads, nuts, bolts, keys and
riveted joins
• Analyze and draw the machine elements and simple parts like shaft couplings,
journal, pivot and collar bearings
• Analyze all the parts and assemble them in AutoCAD with section views
Machine drawing conventions
Need for drawing conventions – Introduction to IS conventions
a) Conventional representation of materials, common machine elements and parts such as
screws, nuts, bolts, keys, gears, webs and ribs
b) Types of sections – selection of section planes and drawing of sections and auxiliary
sectional views. Parts not usually sectioned
c) Methods of dimensioning, general rules for sizes, and placement of dimensions for holes,
centers, and curved and tapered features
d) Title boxes, their size, location, and other details - common abbreviations and their liberal
usage
e) Types of drawings – working drawings for machine parts
87
R15
I. DRAWING OF MACHINE ELEMENTS AND SIMPLE PARTS
Selection of orthogonal views and additional views for the following machine elements and
parts with every drawing proportion.
a) Popular forms of screw threads, bolts, nuts, stud bolts
b) Keys, cottered joints, and knuckle joint
c) Riveted joints for plates
d) Shaft coupling and spigot joint
e) Journal, pivot, and collar bearings
II. ASSEMBLY DRAWINGS
Assembly drawings for the following, using conventions and easy drawing proportions:
a) Engine parts – stuffing boxes, eccentrics, I.C. engine connecting rod and piston assembly
b) Other parts - screws jacks, machine vices, and tailstock
NOTE
1. To adopt first angle of projection.
2. The student should be able to provide working drawings of actual parts.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Machine Drawing by K. L. Narayana, P. Kannaiah and K. Venkata Reddy; Publisher: New
Age/ Publishers.
2. Machine Drawing by K. C. John, Publisher: PHI
REFERENCES
1. Machine Drawing by Siddheswar, Kannaiah and Sastry.
2. Machine Drawing by N. D. Bhat.
88
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Year II Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5AE51) AUTOMOTIVE ENGINES LABORATORY
Course Prerequisites: Automotive engine operation and working of engine systems
Course Objectives
• Illustrate valve and port timing diagrams
• Testing and performance characteristics of IC engine and compressor
• Measurement of engine emissions
• Estimate heat balancing of an engine
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Demonstrate valve and port timing diagrams
• Evaluate performance characteristics of IC engine and compressor
• Practice measurements of emission testing
• Perform heat balancing of an engine
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS (Any ten experiments)
1. Valve timing diagram for 4-Stroke Diesel engine
2. Valve timing diagram for 4-Stroke petrol engine
3. Port timing diagram for 2-Stroke petrol engine
4. Performance test on 4-Stroke single cylinder Diesel engine
5. Performance test on 2-Stroke petrol engine
6. Heat balance test on 4-Stroke single cylinder Diesel engine
7. Optimum cooling temperature test on single cylinder Diesel engine
8. Morse test on multi-cylinder petrol engine
9. Performance test on computerised Diesel engine
10. Performance test on computerised duel fuel engine
11. Exhaust gas analysis on computerised Diesel engine by flue gas analyser
12. Permanence test on reciprocating compressor test rig
89
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Year II Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EE63) BASIC ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING LABORATORY
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Objectives
• Understand the performance of D.C Shunt Machine
• Understand the performance of AC machines
• Understand the performance and efficiency / regulation of electrical machines are
determined experimentally
• Understand the operation of solid state devices like diode, transistor and SCR
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Find the application of electrical machines with the experimental determination of the
performance of the machines
• Find the application of Induction motor with the experimental determination of the
performance of the machines
• Find the application of single phase transformer
• Identify the characteristics of all solid state devices
SECTION A: ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
The following experiments are required to be conducted as compulsory experiments:
1. Swinburne’s test on D.C. Shunt machine. (Predetermination of efficiency of a given D.C.
Shunt machine working as motor and generator)
2. Brake test on D.C Shunt Motor
3. OC and SC tests on single phase transformer (Predetermination of efficiency and
regulation at given power factors)
4. Brake test on 3-phase Induction motor (Determination of performance characteristics)
5. Regulation of alternator by Synchronous impedance method
SECTION B: ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
The following experiments are required to be conducted as compulsory experiments:
1. P-n Diode Characteristics
2. Transistor CE Characteristics (Input and Output)
3. Full wave Rectifier with and without filters
4. CE Amplifiers
5. SCR Characteristics
90
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. II Year II Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS04) GENDER SENSITIZATION
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT & AE)
Course Objectives
• To develop students sensibility with regard to issues of gender in contemporary India
• To provide a critical perspective on the socialization of men and women
• To introduce students to information about some key biological aspects of genders
• To expose the students to debates on the politics and economics of work
• To help students reflect critically on gender violence
• To expose students to more egalitarian interactions between men and women
Course Outcomes
• Students will have developed a better understanding of important issues related to
gender in contemporary India.
• Students will be sensitized to basic dimensions of the biological, sociological,
psychological and legal aspects of gender. This will be achieved through discussion of
materials derived from research, facts, everyday life, literature and film.
• Students will attain a finer grasp of how gender discrimination works in our society and
how to counter it.
• Students will acquire insight into the gendered division of labour and its relation to politics
and economics.
• Men and women students and professionals will be better equipped to work and live
together as equals.
• Students will develop a sense of appreciation of women in all walks of life.
• Through providing accounts of students and movements as well as the new laws that
provide protection and relief to women, the textbook will empower students to understand
and respond to gender violence.
UNIT I
UNDERSTANDING GENDER
Gender: Why Should We Study It? (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-1)
Socialization: Making Women, Making Men (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-2)
Introduction, Preparing for Womanhood. Growing up Male. First lessons in Caste. Different
Masculinities.
Just Relationships: Being Together as Equals (Towards a world of Equals: Unit-12)
Mary Kom and Onler. Love and Acid just do not Mix. Love Letters, Mothers and Fathers.
Further Reading: Rosa Parks-The Brave Heart.
91
R15
UNIT II
GENDER AND BIOLOGY
Missing Women: Sex Selection and Its Consequences (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-4)
Declining Sex Ratio. Demographic Consequences.
Gender Spectrum: Beyond the Binary (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-10)
Two or Many? Struggles with Discrimination.
Additional Reading: Our Bodies, Our health (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-13)
UNIT III
GENDER AND LABOUR
Housework: the Invisible Labour (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-3)
“My Mother doesn’t Work.””Share the Load.”
Women’s Work: Its Politics and Economics (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-7)
Fact and Fiction. Unrecognized and Unaccounted work. Further Reading: Wages and
Conditions of Work.
UNIT IV
ISSUES OF VOILENCE
Sexual Harassment: Say No! (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-6)
Sexual Harassment: not Eve-Teasing-Coping with Everyday Harassment-Further Reading:
“Chupulu”.
Domestic Violence: Speaking Out (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-8)
Is Home a Safe Place?-When Women Unite [Film]. Rebuilding Lives. Further Reading: New
Forums for Justice.
Thinking about Sexual Violence (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-11)
Blaming the Victim-“I fought for my Life...”- Further reading: The Caste Face of Violence.
UNIT V
GENDER AND STUDIES
Knowledge: Through the Lens of Gender (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-5)
Point of View. Gender and the Structure of Knowledge. Further Reading: Unacknowledged
Women Artists of Telangana.
Whose History? Questions for Historians and Others (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-9)
Reclaiming a Past. Writing Other Histories. Further Reading. Missing Pages from Modern
Telangana History.
Essential Reading: all the Units in the Textbook, “Towards a word of Equals: A Bilingual
Textbook on Gender” written by A. Suneetha, Uma Bhrugubanda, Duggirala Vasanta, Rama
Malkote, Vasudha Nagaraj, Asma rasheed, Gogu Shyamala, Deepa Sreenivas and Susie
Tharu.
92
R15
Note: Since it is Interdisiplinary Course, Resouse Persons can be drawn from the fields of
English Literature or Sociology or Political Science or any other qualified faculty who has
expertise in this field.
REFERENCES
1. Sen, Amartya. “More than One Million Women are Missing.” New York Review of Books
37.20 (20 December 1990). Print. ‘We Were Making History...’ Life Stories of Women in
the Telangana People’s Struggle. New Delhi: Kali for Women, 1989.
2. Tripti Lahiri. “By the Numbers: Where Indian Women Work.” Women’s Studies Journal
(14 November 2012) Available online at : http://blogs.wsj.com/India real
time/2012/11/14/by-the-numbers-where-India-women-work/>
3. K. Satyanarayana and Susie tharu(Ed) Steel Nibs are Sprouting: New Dalit Writing from
South India Dossier 2: Telugu and Kannada
http://harpercollins.co.in/BookDetail.asp?Book Code =3732
4. Vimala . “Vantillu (The Kitchen)”. Women Writing in India: 600 BC to the Present. Volume
II: The 20th Century. Ed. Susie Tharu and K. Lalita. Delhi: Oxford University Press, 1995.
599-601.
5. Shatrughna, Veena et al. Women’s Work and its Impact on Child Health and Nutrition,
Hyderabad, National Institute of Nutrition, Indian Council of Medical Research. 1993.
6. Stree Shakti Sanghatana. “ We Were Making History.....’Life Stories of Women in the
Telangana People’s Struggle. New Delhi: Kali for Women, 1989.
7. Menon, Nivedita. Seeing like a Feminist. New Delhi: Zubaan-Penguin Books, 2012.
8. Jayaprabha, A. “Chupulu (Stares)”, Women Writing in India: 600 BC to the Present.
Volume II: The 20th Century. Ed. Susie Tharu and K. Lalita. Delhi: Oxford University
Press, 1995. 596-597.
9. Javeed, Shayan and Anupam Manuhaar. “Women and wage Discrimination in India: A
Critical Analysis.”International Journal of Humanities and Social Science Invention 2.4
(2013).
10. Gautam , Liela and Gita Ramaswamy. “A ‘conversation’ between a Daughter and a
Mother.”Broadsheet on Contemporary Politics, Special issue on Sexuality and
Harassment: gender Politics on Campus Today. Ed. Madhumeeta Sinha and Asma
rasheed. Hyderabad: Anveshi Research Center for Women’s Studies, 2014.
11. Abdulali Sohaila “I Fought For My Life ...and Won. “Available online at:
http://www.thealternative.in/lifestyle/i-fought-for-my-lifeand-won-sohaila-abdulal/
12. Jeganathan Pradeep, Partha Chatterjee (Ed). “Community, Gender and Violence
Subaltern Studies XI’
13. Permanent Black and ravi Dayal Publishers, New Delhi, 2000.
14. K. Kapadia. The Violence of Development: the Politics of Identity, Gender and Social
Inequalities in India. London: Zed Books, 2002.
15. S. Benhabib. Situating the Self: Gender, Community, and Postmodernism in
Contemporary Ethics, London: Routledge, 1992.
16. Virginia Woolf. A Room of One’s Own. Oxford: Black Swan. 1992.
17. T. Banuri and M. Mahmood, Just Development: Beyond Adjustment with a Human Face,
Karachi: Oxford University Press, 1997.
93
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5AE04) AUTOMOTIVE CHASSIS
Course Prerequisites: Theory of Machines
Course objectives
• Understand the fundamental concepts of automotive systems.
• Discuss the basic functionality of these automotive systems
• Provide working of drive line systems like clutch, gear box and differential
• Learn constructional features and working of automotive steering, braking and
suspension systems
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Appreciate the concepts and technologies available in automobiles
• Explain automotive lay-out and functionality of chassis systems
• Present working of drive line systems like clutch, gear box and differential
• Explain constructional features and working of automotive steering, braking and
suspension systems
UNIT I
Introduction: Classification of automobiles, layout of chassis and sub systems and their role.
Frame and Body: Types of chassis – Light, medium and heavy duty vehicle chassis, ladder
chassis, and integral body. Role and requirement of a chassis frame, types of frames,
materials, loading points and types of bodies.
UNIT II
Clutch: Role, types - types of clutches, single plate clutch, coil spring type and diaphragm
spring type, multiple plate clutch, centrifugal clutch, calculation of torque transmission, over
running clutch.
Gear Box: Need for a gearbox, types of gear boxes, sliding mesh, constant mesh and
synchromesh gear boxes, calculation of gear ratios, epicyclical gearboxes, transfer case -
auxiliary gearbox and gear shifting mechanisms.
UNTI III
Axle: Live and dead axles, front axle and its types, stub axle and its types, rear axle and its
types, fully floating, semi- floating and three quarter floating axles.
94
R15
Final Drive and Differential: Need for final drive and differential, types of final drives, single
reduction and double reduction final drives, differential and its types, conventional and non-slip
differentials and differential lock.
Wheels and Tyres: Types of wheels, construction of wheel, tyre requirements, bias ply and
radial ply tyres, tubeless tyres, wheel balancing and tyre rotation.
UNIT IV
Steering System: Desirable characteristics, principle of steering, steering linkage layout,
reversible and irreversible steering. Steering gearbox – Purpose, types of steering gearboxes.
Front wheel alignment and steering geometry, centre point steering. Power steering –
Purpose, basic principle, types of power steering.
Brake System: Need, characteristics of braking system, principle of working of a braking
system, wheel locking and stopping distance, self energizing and self locking. Types of brakes
– Drum brakes, disc brakes. Types of brake actuating systems – Mechanical brakes,
hydraulic brakes, power brakes and servo brakes.
UNIT V
Suspension System: Desirable characteristics. Types of suspension systems – Rigid axle
suspension and independent suspension systems. Types of suspension springs – Leaf
springs, coil springs, torsion bar springs, air springs, rubber springs, hydro elastic springs.
Linked suspension system, variable rate sprints. Shock absorbers – Role of shock absorber –
Types of shock absorbers, construction and working of telescopic shock absorber.
TEXTBOOKS
1. Garrett T K, Newton K. and Steeds W., Motor Vehicle, Butter Worths & Co. Publishers
Ltd., New Delhi, 2001.
2. Heinz Heisler, Advanced Vehicle Technology, Butterworth Heinemann Publishers, 2002.
REFERENCES
1. Heldt P M, Automotive Chassis, Chilton & Co., 1996.
2. Crouse W H, Automotive Chassis and Body, McG raw Hill Book Co., 5th edition, 1976.
3. Crouse W H, Automotive Transmissions and Power Trains, McGraw Hill Book Co., 5th
edition, 1976.
4. Khatawate N R, Introduction to Automobile Engineering, Khanna publications.
5. Joseph I Heitner, Automotive mechanics,. Affiliated East West Press.
6. Giri N K, Automotive Mechanics, Khanna Publications, 2006.
95
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5AE05) AUTOMOTIVE ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS
Course Prerequisites: Automotive Chassis and Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering
Course objectives
• Study the fundamentals, working and advanced concepts of automotive battery,
ignition and starting systems
• Understand the working of basic and advanced concepts of automotive charging
and lighting systems
• Learn basics of automotive electronics and working principle of sensors and
actuators
• Provide an overview on control system concepts in engine control
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Explain the fundamentals, working and advanced concepts of automotive battery,
ignition and starting systems
• Discuss the working of basic and advanced concepts of automotive charging and
lighting systems
• Present basics of automotive electronics and working principle of sensors and
actuators
• Apply control system concepts in engine control
UNIT I
Batteries: Lead acid and alkaline batteries, battery rating, battery testing and maintenance.
Starting System: Principle and construction of starter motor, working of different starter drive
units and solenoid switches.
UNIT II
Ignition System: Conventional ignition system and study of its components. Types of ignition
systems, spark advance and retarding mechanisms. Types of spark plugs, ignition timing,
maintenance, servicing and fault diagnosis. Electronic ignition systems, programmed ignition
and distributor-less ignition.
96
R15
UNIT III
Charging System: DC and AC Generators – principle, construction and working, cut-outs and
regulators and charge balancing. (6)
Lighting System: Insulated and earth return system, details of head light and side light, LED
lighting system, head light dazzling and preventive methods. Horn, wiper system and
trafficator.
UNIT IV
Sensors and Actuators: Classification of sensors, sensor for speed, knock, throttle position,
exhaust oxygen level, manifold pressure, crankshaft position, coolant temperature, exhaust
temperature, air mass flow for engine application. Solenoids, stepper motors and relay.
UNIT V
Electronic Engine Controls: Concept of an electronic engine control system, electronic fuel
injection - throttle body fuel injection, multi point fuel injection, gasoline direct injection,
common rail direct injection, electronic ignition control, engine mapping, on-board diagnostics
– engine control module and powertrain control module.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Crouse W H, “Automobile Electrical Equipment”, McGraw Hill Book Co., Inc., New York
3rd edition,1986.
2. William B Ribbens, “Understanding Automotive Electronics”, 5th edition, Butter worth
Heinemann Woburn, 1998.
REFERENCES
1. Bechhold “Understanding Automotive Electronics” SAE, 1998.
2. Judge A W, “Modern Electrical Equipment of Automobiles”, Chapman & Hall,
London,1992.
3. Robert Bosch, “Automotive Hand Book” SAE, 5th edition, 2000.
4. Kholi P L, “Automotive Electrical Equipment”, Tata McGraw Hill Co., Ltd., New Delhi,
1975.
5. Young A P and Griffiths L, “Automotive Electrical Equipment”, ELBS & New Press, 1999.
6. “Automotive Electrics Automotive Electronics”, 4th Edition, Robert Bosch GmbH, 2004.
97
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year I Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5AE06) AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING DESIGN - I
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Mathematics, Engineering Physics, Engineering
Mechanics, Theory of Machines and Metallurgy and Materials Science.
Course Objectives
• Identify the properties of materials and relationship among them
• Understand the design considerations for structural members under fluctuating
loads
• Compare and evaluate different types of fasteners
• Appraise power transmitting elements in automobiles
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Choose the materials based on design considerations
• Analyse the behavior of structural members under fluctuating loads
• Select and design different types of fasteners
• Design power transmitting elements in automobiles
UNIT I
Engineering Materials and Design Considerations: The design phase / methodology and
identification of need, evaluation and presentation, reliability and product liability. Mechanical
properties of engineering materials, overall design considerations, factor of safety, preferred
numbers. Standard and codes, design data handbook, load, stress and critical sections in
machine parts. Static strength, plastic deformation, temperature properties, definition of stress,
simple stress, combined stress, complex stress. Members subjected to axial, bending, torsion
and shear loading and impact stresses.
UNIT II
Design against Fluctuating Load: Stress concentration, stress concentration factors,
reduction stress concentration, fluctuating stresses. Fatigue strength, endurance Limit, fatigue
test, S-N diagrams for different structural materials. Low cycle and high cycle fatigue, notch
sensitivity, design for finite and infinite life. Soderberg and Goodman lines the fatigue strength,
modified Goodman theory, Soderberg theory and Gerber theory.
98
R15
UNIT III
Bolted and Screwed Joints: Bolted joints, bolted joint under initial loading and eccentrically
loaded bolted joints under different static load conditions.
Riveted and Welded Joints: Riveted joints, eccentrically loaded riveted joints, design of
boiler riveted joints, and welding symbols, butt and fillet welds, stress in the welded joints
carries tension bending and shear loading, design of various types of welding joints and
eccentrically loaded welded joints under different static load conditions.
UNIT IV
Belt Drives: Introduction, classification of belts, belt materials, design of flat (rectangular)
belts, ratio of belt tensions, V-Belts, power transmitted through V-Belt, design of V-Belts and
timing belts.
Springs: Classification of springs, spring material, design of helical, leaf, disc and tensional
springs under constant loads and varying loads.
UNIT V
Shafts, Keys and Couplings: Transmission shafts, design of solid and hollow shafts based
on strength, rigidity and flexible shafts – Key and classification of keys, stresses in the keys
and design considerations. Rigid couplings – Muff, split muff and flange couplings – Bushed -
pin flexible coupling.
Flywheels: Flywheel governor, Flywheel materials, torque analysis, coefficient of fluctuation of
energy, solid disk flywheel, stresses in rimmed flywheel.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Design of Machine Elements by Bhandari; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Mechanical Engineering Design by Shigley J. E and Mischke C. R; Publisher: Tata
McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES
1. Engineering design by George E Dieter; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Machine Design - An Integrated Approach by Robert L.Norton; Publisher: Addison
Wesley.
3. Fundamentals of Machine Component Design by Juvinall R. C and Marshek K. M;
Publisher: John Wiley and Sons.
99
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5ME07) PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Material Science and Manufacturing Science
Course Objectives
• Understand about sand casting and metal casting techniques
• Impart the knowledge of various welding processes
• Understand about the importance rolling, forging and sheet metal operations
• Understand about the processing of plastics
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Analyze and select the suitable casting technique for making the components
• Analyze the different types of welding processes are needed for various materials
and importance of welding
• Know the methods involved in sheet metal operations, rolling, forging, etc.
• Know the various manufacturing methods in processing of plastics
UNIT I
Casting: Steps involved in making a casting; Advantage of casting and its applications; Types
of Foundry sands, Types of patterns – Materials used for patterns; Pattern allowances and
their construction; Principles of Gating, Gating ratio and design of gating systems.Risers;
Types; Casting design considerations;
Special casting processes: Centrifugal, Die, Investment casting only, Cupola furnace and
Electric arc furnace only.
UNIT II
Welding: Classification of welding processes, types of welds and welded joints ,Gas welding,
ARC welding, Resistance welding, Thermit welding and Plasma welding.
TIG & MIG welding, Friction stir welding, Explosive welding, Soldering & Brazing. Heat
affected zones in welding; welding defects.
UNIT III
Mechanical Working-1: Hot working; Cold working; Strain hardening; Recovery;
Recrystallisation and grain growth; Comparison of properties of cold and hot worked parts.
100
R15
Rolling: Rolling fundamentals; Theory of rolling; Types of Rolling mills and products.
Extrusion: Basic extrusion process and its characteristics; Hot extrusion and Cold extrusion;
Forward extrusion and backward extrusion – Impact extrusion; Hydrostatic extrusion;
Extrusion defects.
Forging Processes: Principles of forging; Tools and dies; Types of Forging; Smith forging;
Drop Forging; Roll forging; Forging hammers; Rotary forging; Forging defects.
UNIT IV
Mechanical Working-2: Stamping, forming and other cold working processes; Blanking and
piercing; Bending and forming; Drawing and its types; Wire drawing and Tube drawing;
Coining; Hot and cold spinning.
UNIT V
Plastic Materials and Process: Types of plastics; advantages of plastics, Injection moulding;
Blow moulding; Thermoforming. Compression moulding.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Manufacturing Technology by P.N. Rao.
2. Production Technology by R.K. Jain.
REFERENCES
1. Manufacturing Engineering and Technology by Kalpak Jian S.
2. Process and Materials of Manufacturing by Lindberg/PE.
3. Principles of Metal Castings by Rosenthal.
4. Welding Process by Parmar.
5. Production Technology by Sharma P C.
101
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5ME10) HEAT AND MASS TRANSFER
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Mathematics and Thermodynamics.
Course Objectives
• Measure the conduction mode of heat transfer in physical environment and to
derive general mathematical equation
• Measure the heat transfer through Homogeneous slabs, hollow cylinders, sphere,
extended surfaces and fins.
• Measure convective mode of heat transfer
• Measure heat transfer during radiation, boiling and condensation
• Measure heat transfer through different types of heat exchangers
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Derive the general conduction equation in Cartesian, cylindrical and spherical
coordinates
• Derive and apply equations in problems related to heat transfer through
homogeneous slabs, hollow cylinders ,sphere, extended surfaces and fins
• Derive and apply the convective heat transfer equations to natural and forced flow
• Design the devices that transfers heat and measure their effectiveness
UNIT I
Introduction: Modes and mechanisms of heat transfer - Basic laws of heat transfer - Simple
general discussion about applications of heat transfer. Conduction Heat Transfer: Fourier heat
conduction equation - General heat conduction equation in Cartesian, Cylindrical and
Spherical coordinates - simplification and forms of the field equation steady, unsteady and
periodic heat transfer - Initial and boundary conditions.
UNIT II
One Dimensional Steady State Conduction Heat Transfer: Homogeneous slabs, hollow
cylinders and sphere - overall heat transfer coefficient - electrical analogy - Critical radius of
insulation - variable Thermal conductivity - systems with heat sources or Heat generation -
extended surfaces and fins. One Dimensional Transient Conduction Heat Transfer: Systems
with negligible internal resistance - chart solutions of transient conduction systems.
102
R15
UNIT III
Convective Heat Transfer: Classification of systems based on causation of flow, condition of
flow, configuration of flow and medium of flow - Dimensional analysis as a tool for
experimental investigation - Concepts about hydrodynamic and thermal boundary layers -
Buckingham Pi- Theorem and method, application for developing Semi - empirical non-
dimensional correlation for convection heat transfer - Significance of non -dimensional
numbers - use of empirical correlations for convective heat transfer- Forced Convection: Flat
plates and horizontal pipes. Free Convection: Vertical plates and pipes.
UNIT IV
Heat Transfer with Phase Change: Heat transfer with boiling - pool boiling and film boiling -
boiling curve for pool boiling - simple correlations for pool boiling - Condensation plates heat
transfer: film wise and drop wise condensation - film condensation on vertical and horizontal
cylinders using empirical correlations.
Radiation Heat Transfer: Emission characteristics and laws of black-body radiation - incident
radiation - total and monochromatic quantities -laws of Planck, Wien, Kirchoff, Lambert, Stefan
and Boltzmann - heat exchange between two black bodies -concepts of shape factor -
emissivity - heat exchange between grey bodies - radiation shields - electrical analogy for
radiation net works.
UNIT V
Heat Exchangers: Classification of heat exchangers - overall and fouling resistance -
problems using LMTD and NTU methods.
Introduction to Mass Transfer: Analogy between heat, mass and momentum transfer -
classification: Diffusion and convective mass transfer processes - Examples - Fick's Law of
diffusion simple problems for steady state molecular diffusion - Convection mass transfer
coefficient - non-dimensional numbers of mass transfer analogous to convection heat transfer
TEXTBOOKS
1. Fundamentals of Engineering Heat and Mass Transfer by R.C. Sachdeva; Publisher: New
Age International.
2. Heat and Mass Transfer Data book by C.P. Kothandaraman; Publisher: New Age.
REFERENCES
1. Heat Transfer by OZSIK.
2. Heat Transfer by HOLMAN.
3. Heat Transfer by Sukhatme; Publisher: University Press.
4. Heat and Mass Transfer by D. S. Kumar.
5. Fundamentals of Heat & Mass Transfer by Incopera & Dewitt.
103
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(5CE71) DISASTER MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives
• Understand the difference between a hazard and disaster
• Know about various disasters and their impacts
• Understand Different approaches of disaster risk reduction
• Understand Disaster risks in India
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Acquire the knowledge disaster Management
• Understand the vulnerability of ecosystem and infrastructure due to a disaster
• Acquire the knowledge of Disaster Management Phases
• Understand the hazard and vulnerability profile of India
UNIT I
Introduction to disaster: Concepts and definitions (Disaster, Hazard, Vulnerability,
Resilience, Risks)
UNIT II
Disasters: Classifications, Causes, Impacts (including social, economic, political,
environment, health, psychosocial, etc.)
Differential impacts-in terms of caste, class, gender, age, location, disability Global trends in
disasters. Urban disaster, pandemics, complex emergencies, Climate change
UNIT III
Approaches to disaster Risk reduction: Disaster cycle-its analysis, phase, Culture of safety,
prevention, mitigation and preparedness, community based DRR, Structural measures, roles
and responsibilities of community. Panchayati Raj Institutions/Urban Local Bodies
(PRIs/ULBs), states, center and other stake-holders.
UNIT IV
Inter-relationship between Disaster and Development: Factors affecting Vulnerabilities,
differential impacts, impact of development projects such as dams, embankments, change in
land-use etc. Climate change Adaption. Relevance of indigenous knowledge, appropriate
technology and local resources.
104
R15
UNIT V
Disaster Risk Management in India: Hazard and vulnerability profile of India, Components of
Disaster relief: Water, food, sanitation, shelter, health, waste management Institutional
arrangements (Mitigation, Response and Preparedness, DM Act Policy, Other related polices,
plan, programmes and legislation)
Project Work (Field Work, Case Studies):
The project/fieldwork is meant for students to understand vulnerabilities and to work on
reducing disaster risks and to build a culture of safety. Projects must be conceived creatively
based on the geographic location and hazard.
Suggested Reading list:
1. Alexander David, Introduction in ‘Confronting Catastrophe’, oxford University press, 2000.
2. Andharia J. Vulnerability in disaster Discourse, JTCDM, Tata Institute of Social Sciences
working paper no.8, 2008.
3. Blaikie, P, Cannon T, Davis I, Wisner B 1997. At Risk Natural Hazards, Peoples’
Vulnerability and Disaster, Rutledge.
4. Coppola P Damon, 2007. Introduction to International Disaster Management.
5. Carter, Nick 1991.Disaster Management: A Disaster Manager’s Handbook. Asian
Development Bank, Manila Philippines.
6. Cuny,F.1983. Development and Disasters, Oxford University Press.
7. Govt.of India; Disaster Management Act 2005,Government of India, New Delhi.
105
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(5EE71) RENEWABLE ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES
Course Objectives:
• To provide necessary knowledge about the modeling, design and analysis of various PV
systems
• To show that PV is an economically viable, environmentally sustainable alternative to the
world's energy supplies
• To understand the power conditioning of PV and WEC system’s power output
Course Outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Model, analyze and design various photovoltaic systems
• Know the feasibility of various storage systems
• Design efficient stand alone and grid connected PV and WEC power systems
UNIT I
Introduction to photovoltaic (pv) systems:
Historical development of PV systems- Overview of PV usage in the world Photovoltaic effect-
conversion of solar energy into electrical energy.
Solar cells and arrays
Behavior of solar cells-basic structure and characteristics: types - equivalent circuit-modeling
of solar cells including the effects of temperature, irradiation and series/shunt resistances on
the open-circuit voltage and short-circuit currentSolar cell arrays- PV modules-PV generators-
shadow effects and bypass diodes- hot spot problem in a PV module and safe operating area-
Terrestrial PV module modelingInterfacing PV modules with different loads.
UNIT II
Energy storage alternatives for pv systems
Methods of Energy storage –Pumped Energy Storage – Compressed Energy Storage –
Storage batteries- lead-acid- nickel cadmium-nickel-metal-hydride and lithium type batteries.
Small storage systems employing ultra capacitors- properties- modeling of batteries.
UNIT-III
Wind Energy Conversion systems (WECS)
Basic Principle of WECS, Nature of Wind, Wind survey in india, Components of WECS, Power
Vs Speed, TSR, Maximum Power operation, WECS- Trade off- Control Requirements, Basic
Principle of Induction generator for WECS
106
R15
UNIT-IV
Converters for PV and Wind
AC-DC Rectifier, DC-AC inverter (Basic operation) Grid interface voltage and frequency
control, Battery charger (Basic operation)
Power conditioning of PV systems
Array Design, Sun Tracking, Single axis-Dual Axis, Maximum Power point Tracking- PO
method- IC method
UNIT-V
Stand Alone systems:
PV Stand Alone, Electric Vehicle, Wind stand Alone, Standalone Hybrid systems- Hybrid with
diesel, Hybrid with Fuel cell- Mode controller- Load sharing, systems sizing, wind farm sizing-
Power and Energy estimates, , Residential systems, PV water pumping, PV powered lighting-
TEXT BOOKS
1. Patel M. R., “Wind and Solar Power Systems Design, Analysis, and Operation”, CRC
Press, New York, 2nd Edition, 2005
2. Goetzberger, Hoffmann V. U., “Photovoltaic Solar Energy Generation”,
SpringerVerlag,Berlin, 2005.
REFERENCES
1. Komp R.J., “Practical Photovoltaics: Electricity from solar cells”, Aatec
Publications,Michigan, 3rd Edition, 2001.
2. Castaner L., Silvestre S., “Modeling Photovoltaic Systems Using PSpice”, John Wiley &
Sons, England, 2002.
3. Jenny Nelson, “The physics of solar cells”, Imperial College Press, London, 2004.
107
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(5ME71) DIGITAL FABRICATION
Course Objectives
• Understand the need of digital fabrication
• Understand about Two dimensional layer by layer techniques
• Know about extrusion based systems, post processing and the software issues
involved in digital fabrication
• Know the applications of digital fabrication
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the importance of digital fabrication
• Identify different techniques involved in two dimensional layering
• Analyze the software issues involved in digital fabrication and know about extrusion
based systems and post processing
• Apply the knowledge gained in the digital fabrication
UNIT I
Introduction to Additive Manufacturing: Introduction to AM, AM evolution, Classification of
Additive Manufacturing, Distinction between AM & CNC Machining, Advantages of AM.
UNIT II
Two- Dimensional Layer- by Layer Techniques: Stereolithography (SL), Solid Foil
Polymerization (SFP), Selective Laser Sintering (SLS), Selective Powder Building (SPB),
Ballistic Particle Manufacturing (PM).
UNIT III
Extrusion Based Systems: Introduction, basic principles, Fused Deposition Modeling,
Materials, Limitations of FDM
108
R15
Post Processing: Introduction, Support Material Removal, Surface Texture Improvements,
Accuracy Improvements, Aesthetic Improvements.
UNIT IV
Software Issues for Additive Manufacturing: Introduction, Preparation of CAD Models: The
STL file, Problems with STL files, STL file manipulation, Beyond the STL file, Additional
software to assist AM.
UNIT V
AM Applications:
Applications in design, Applications in Engineering Analysis and Planning.
Medical Applications: Customized Implants and Prosthesis.
Aerospace applications and Automotive Applications.
Other Applications: Jewelry Industry, Coin Industry, Tableware Industry.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Ian Gibson, David W Rosen, Brent Stucker, “Additive Manufacturing Technologies: Rapid
Prototyping to Direct Digital Manufacturing”, Springer 2010.
2. Chuaa Chee Kai, Leong Kah Fai, “Rapid Prototyping: Principles & Applications”, World
Scientific, 2010.
REFERENCES
1. Ali K.Karmani, Emand Abouel Nasr, “Rapid Prototyping: Theory and Practice”, Springer
2006.
2. Andreas Gebhardt, Understanding Additive Manufacture: Rapid Prototyping, Rapid
Tooling and Rapid Manufacture, Hanser Publishers, 2013.
3. Hopkinson, N.Haque, and Dickens Rapid Manufacturing: Advanced Research in Virtual
and Rapid Prototyping, Taylor and Francis, 2007.
109
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(5EC71) PRINCIPLES OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS
(Qualitative Analysis only)
Course Objectives
• Make students understand different types of communication
• Make students understand different modulation technique
• Make students understand basics of wireless communications
• Make students understand basics of cellular communications
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Analyze the techniques used for signal modulation and demodulation
• Distinguish the need for PPM, PWM, Multiplexing
• Learn basics of wireless networks
• Understand the fundamental concepts of Cellular & Mobile communications
UNIT I
Introduction: Block diagram of Electrical communication system, Radio communication,
Types of communications: Analog, pulse and digital.
Analog Modulation: Need for modulation, Types of Analog modulation, Amplitude
Modulation, Angle Modulation: Frequency & Phase modulations. Generation and
Demodulation techniques. Advantages of FM over AM, Bandwidth consideration, Narrow band
and Wide band FM, Comparison of FM & PM.
UNIT II
Pulse Modulations: Sampling, Nyquist rate of sampling, Sampling theorem for Band limited
signals, PAM, regeneration of base band signal, PWM and PPM, Time Divison Multiplexing,
Frequency Divison Multiplexing, Asynchronous Multiplexing.
UNIT III
Digital Communication: Advantages, Block diagram of PCM, Quantization, effect of
quantization, quantization error, Base band digital signal, DM, ADM, ADPCM and comparison.
Digital Modulation : ASK, FSK, PSK, DPSK, QPSK demodulation, offset and non-offset QPSK,
coherent and incoherent reception, Modems.
110
R15
UNIT IV
Introduction to Wireless Networking: Introduction, Difference between wireless and fixed
telephone networks, Development of wireless networks, Traffic routing in wireless networks.
UNIT V
Cellular Mobile Radio Systems: Introduction to Cellular Mobile System, concept of frequency
reuse, Performance criteria, uniqueness of mobile radio environment, operation of cellular
systems, Hexagonal shaped cells, Analog and Digital Cellular systems. Cell splitting.
Handoffs and Dropped Calls: Handoff, dropped calls and cell splitting, types of handoff,
handoff initiation, delaying handoff, forced handoff, mobile assisted handoff, Intersystem
handoff, micro cells, vehicle locating methods, dropped call rates and their evaluation.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Communication Systems Analog and Digital – R.P. Singh and SD Sapre, TMH, 20th
reprint, 2004.
2. Principles of Communications – H. Taub and D. Schilling, TMH, 2003.
REFERENCES
1. Electronic Communication Systems – Kennedy and Davis, TMH, 4th edition, 2004.
2. Communication Systems Engineering – John. G. Proakis and Masoud Salehi, PHI, 2nd
Ed. 2004.
3. Wireless Communication and Networking – William Stallings, 2003, PHI.
4. Wireless Communications, Principles, Practice – Theodore, S. Rappaport, 2nd Ed., 2002,
PHI.
111
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(5CS71) OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING THROUGH JAVA
Course Objectives
• Implement Different object-oriented Concepts in Java
• Develop the concepts of Multi-Threading and IO-Streams
• Construct GUI models
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Write Java programs using various programming constructs using java
• Solve different mathematical problems using OOP Paradigm
• Design and analyze the solutions for Thread and I/O management Concepts
• Implement the Applications involving GUI models and Events
UNIT I
Fundamentals of Object Oriented programming: Object oriented paradigm - Basic
concepts of Object Oriented Programming - Benefits of OOP - Applications of OOP.
Java Evolution: Java Features - How Java differs from C and C++ - Java and Internet - Java
and World Wide Web - Web Browsers - Hardware and Software Requirements - Java
Environment. Overview of Java Language: Simple Java Program - Java Program Structure -
Java Tokens- Java Statements - Implementing a Java Program - Java Virtual Machine -
Constants - Variables - Data types - Scope of Variables-Symbolic Constants-Type Casting and
type promotions – Operators, Operator Precedence and Associativity - Control Statements –
break - continue- Arrays-Multi dimensional arrays, Wrapper Classes - Simple examples.
UNIT II
Classes: Classes and Objects - Constructors – methods - this keyword – garbage collection-
finalize - Overloading methods and constructors - Access Control- Static members – nested
and inner classes – command line arguments - variable length arguments.
Inheritance: Forms of inheritance – specialization, specification, construction, extension,
limitation, combination, benefits and costs of inheritance. Super uses- final - polymorphism,
method overriding - dynamic method dispatch –abstract classes – exploring String class.
UNIT III
Packages and Interfaces: Defining and accessing a package – understanding CLASSPATH
– access protection importing packages – Interfaces - Defining and implementing an interface,
112
R15
Applying interfaces, Variables in interfaces and extended interfaces. Exploring java.lang and
java.util packages.
Exception Handling-Fundamentals, usage of try, catch, multiple catch clauses, throw, throws
and finally. Java Built in Exceptions and creating own exception subclasses.
UNIT IV
Multithreaded Programming: Java Thread life cycle model – Thread creation - Thread
Exceptions - Thread Priority – Synchronization - Messaging - Runnable Interface - Interthread
Communication - Deadlock - Suspending, Resuming and stopping threads.
I/O Streams: File – Streams – Advantages - The stream classes – Byte streams – Character
streams.
UNIT V
Applet Programming: How Applets differ from Applications - Applet Life Cycle - Creating an
Applet - Running the Applet- Designing a Webpage - Applet Tag - Adding Applet to HTML file -
More about Applet Tag - Passing parameters to Applets - Aligning the display.
Event handling: basics of event handling, Event classes, Event Listeners, delegation event
model, handling mouse and keyboard events, adapter classes, AWT Class hierarchy - AWT
Controls - Layout Managers and Menus, limitations of AWT.
TEXT BOOKS
1. The Complete Reference Java J2SE 5th Edition, Herbert Schildt, TMH Publishing
Company Ltd, New Delhi.
2. Big Java 2nd Edition, Cay Horstmann, John Wiley and Sons.
REFERENCES
1. Java How to Program, Sixth Edition, H.M.Dietel and P.J.Dietel, Pearson Education/PHI
2. Core Java 2, Vol 1, Fundamentals, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell, Seventh Edition,
Pearson Education.
3. Core Java 2, Vol 2, Advanced Features, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell, Seventh
Edition, Pearson Education.
113
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(5EI71) PRINCIPLES OF MEASUREMENTS AND INSTRUMENTATION
Course Objectives
• Provide basic knowledge in transduction principles, sensors and transducer
technology and measurement systems
• Provide better familiarity with the concepts of Sensors and Measurements
• Provide the knowledge of various measurement methods of physical parameters like
velocity, acceleration, force, pressure and viscosity
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Identify suitable sensors and transducers for real time applications
• Translate theoretical concepts into working models
• Understand the basic of measuring device and use them in relevant situation
• Estimate the errors in measurement by means of calibrating the different
instruments against the standards.
UNIT I
Introduction to measurements. Physical measurement. Forms and methods of measurements.
Measurement errors. Statistical analysis of measurement data. Probability of errors. Limiting
errors.
Standards. Definition of standard units. International standards. Primary standards. Secondary
standards. Working standards. Voltage standard. Resistance standard. Current standard.
Capacitance standard. Time and frequency standards.
UNIT II
PASSIVE SENSORS
Resistive Sensors: Potentiometers, Strain Gages, Resistive Temperature Detectors (RTDs),
Thermistors, Light-dependent Resistors (LDRs), Resistive Hygrometers , Capacitive
Sensors: Variable capacitor, Differential capacitor, Inductive Sensors: Reluctance variation
sensors, Eddy current sensors
UNIT III
Metrology: Measurement of length – Plainness – Area – Diameter – Roughness – Angle –
Comparators – Gauge blocks. Optical Methods for length and distance measurements.
114
R15
Velocity and Acceleration Measurement: Relative velocity – Translational and Rotational
velocity measurements – Revolution counters and Timers - Magnetic and Photoelectric pulse
counting stroboscopic methods. Accelerometers- different types, Gyroscopes-applications.
UNIT IV
Force and Pressure Measurement: Gyroscopic Force Measurement – Vibrating wire Force
transducer. Basics of Pressure measurement – Manometer types – Force-Balance and
Vibrating Cylinder Transducers – High and Low Pressure measurement
UNIT V
Flow, Density and Viscosity Measurements: Flow Meters- Head type, Area type (Rota
meter), electromagnetic type, Positive displacement type, Density measurements – Strain
Gauge load cell method – Buoyancy method. Units of Viscosity, Two float viscorator –
Industrial consistency meter
TEXT BOOKS
1. Measurement Systems – Applications and Design – by Doeblin E.O., 4/e, McGraw Hill
International, 1990.
2. Principles of Industrial Instrumentation – Patranabis D. TMH. End edition 1997
REFERENCES
1. Sensor Technology Hand Book – Jon Wilson, Newne 2004.
2. Instrument Transducers – An Introduction to their Performance and design – by Herman
K.P.Neubrat, Oxford University Press.
3. Measurement system: Applications and Design – by E.O.Doeblin, McGraw Hill
Publications.
4. Electronic Instrumentation by H.S.Kalsi.
115
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(5IT71) CYBER SECURITY
Course Objectives:
• Identify the key components of cyber security in network
• Describe risk management processes and practices
• Define types of service delivery process and storage management process
• Access additional external resources to supplement knowledge of cyber
forensics and laws
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Categorization of cyber-crime and an understanding social, political, ethical
and psychological dimensions cyber security
• Demonstrate cyber offenses tools, methods used in cyber crime
• Document an appropriate procedure of Risk Management and Security
Standards
• Understanding computer forensics and analyzing them
UNIT-I
INTRODUCTION TO CYBER CRIME: Introduction Cybercrime: Definition and Origins of the
word, Cybercrime and Information Security, Who are Cybercriminals, Classifications of
Cybercrimes, E-mail Spoofing, Spamming, Cyber defamation, Internet Time Theft, Salami
Attack/ Salami Technique, Data Diddling, Forgery, Web Jacking, Newsgroup Spam/ Crimes
Emanating from Usenet Newsgroup, Industrial Spying/Industrial Espionage, Hacking, Online
Frauds, Pornographic Offenses, Software Piracy, Computer Sabotage, E-Mail Bombing/Mail
Bombs, Usernet Newsgroup as the Source of Cybercrimes, Computer Network Intrusions,
Password Sniffing, Credit Card Frauds, Identity Theft, Cybercrime: The Legal Perspectives,
Cybercrimes: An Indian Perspective, Cybercrime and the Indian ITA 2000, Hacking and the
Indian Law(s), A Global Perspective on Cybercrimes, Cybercrime and the Extended
Enterprise.
UNIT-II
CYBER OFFENSES: HOW CRIMINALS PLAN THEM: Introduction, Categories of
Cybercrime, How Criminals Plan the Attacks, Reconnaissance, Passive Attacks, Active
Attacks, Scamming and Scrutinizing Gathered Information, Attack (Gaining and Maintaining
the System Access), Social Engineering, Classification of Social Engineering, Cyber stalking,
Types of Stalkers, Cases Reported on Cyber stalking, How Stalking Works?, Real-Life
Incident of Cyber stalking, Cyber cafe and Cybercrimes, Botnets: The fuel for Cybercrime,
Botnet, Attack Vector, Cloud Computing, Why Cloud Computing?, Types of Services,
Cybercrime and Cloud Computing.
116
R15
UNIT-III
TOOLS AND METHODS USED IN CYBER CRIME: Introduction, Proxy Servers and
Anonymizers, Phishing, How Phishing Works, Password Cracking, Online Attacks, Offline
Attacks, Strong, Weak and Random Passwords, Random Passwords, Keyloggers and
Spywares, Software Keyloggers, Hardware Keyloggers, Antikeylogger, Spywares, Virus and
Worms, Types of Viruses, Trojan Horses and Backdoors, Backdoor, How to Protect from
Trojan and Backdoors, Steganography, Steganalysis, Dos and DDos Attacks, Dos Attacks,
Classification of Dos Attacks, Types of Levels of Dos Attack, Tools Used to Launch Dos
Attacks, DDos Attacks, How to protect from Dos/DDos Attacks, SQL Injection, Steps for SQL
Injection Attack, How to Prevent SQL Injection Attacks.
UNIT-IV
UNDERSTANDING COMPUTER FORENSICS: Introduction, Historical Background of Cyber
forensics, Digital Forensics Science, The Need for Computer Forensics, Cyber forensics and
Digital Evidence, The Rules of Evidence, Forensics Analysis of E-Mail, RFC2822, Digital
Forensics Life Cycle, The Digital Forensics Process, The Phases in Computer
Forensics/Digital Forensics, Precautions to be Taken when Collecting Electronic Evidence,
Chain of Custody Concept, Network Forensics, Approaching a Computer Forensics
Investigation, Typical Elements Addressed in a Forensics Investigation Engagement Contract
, Solving a Computer Forensics Case, Computer Forensics and Steganography, Rootkits,
Information Hiding, Forensics and Social Networking Sites: The Security/Privacy Threats,
Challenges in Computer Forensics, Technical Challenges: Understanding the Raw Data and
its Structure, The Legal Challenges in Computer Forensics and Data Privacy Issues, Special
Tools and Techniques, Digital Forensics Tools Ready Reckoner, Special Technique: Data
Mining used in Cyber forensics, Forensics Auditing.
UNIT-V
CYBERCRIME AND CYBERTERRORISM: SOCIAL, POLITICAL, ETHICAL and
PSYCHOLOGICAL DIMENSIONS: Introduction, Intellectual Property in the Cyberspace,
Copyright, Patent, Trademarks, Trade Secret, Trade Name, Domain Name, The Ethical
Dimension of Cybercrimes, Ethical Hackers: Good Guys in Bad Land, The Psychology,
Mindset and Skills of Hackers and Other Cybercriminals, Inside the Minds and Shoes of
Hackers and Cybercriminals, Hackers and Cybercriminals: Evolution of Technical prowess
and Skills, Ethical Hackers, Sociology of Cybercriminals, Personality Traits of Cybercriminals
and Younger Generation’s views about Hacking, Information Warfare: Perception or An
Eminent Reality?, Cyberwar Ground is HOT, Cyber Jihadist on the Rise.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Cyber Security- Understanding Cyber Crimes, Computer Forensics and Legal
Perspectives by Nina Godbole and Sunit Belpure, Publication Wiley.
REFERENCES:
1. Management of Information Security, M. E. Whitman, H. J. Mattord, Nelson Education,
CENGAGE Learning, 2011, 3rd Edition.
117
R15
2. Guide to Computer Forensics and Investigations, B. Nelson, A. Phillips, F. Enfinger, C.
Steuart, Nelson Education / CENGAGE Learning, 2010, 4th Edition
118
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(5AE71) PRINCIPLES OF AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
Course objectives
• Understand the layout of an automobile and functionalities subsystems
• Provide overview on concepts of engine, cooling, lubrication and fuel systems
• Present constructional features and working of automotive driveline and running
systems
• Study the fundamentals and principles of automotive electrical systems
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Explain the functionalities of automotive systems and subsystems
• Give an overview on engine and engine subsystems.
• Describe working of automotive driveline and running systems
• Discuss the concepts of automotive starting, ignition and charging systems
UNIT I
Introduction: Classification of automobiles, layout of an automobile, automobile sub systems
and their role. Types of chassis, role and requirement of a chassis frame, types of frames,
materials, loading points and types of bodies.
UNIT II
Engine: Classification and components of an engine, principle and working of four stoke and
two stroke SI and CI engines. Carburetor, diesel fuel injection and introduction to electronic
fuel injection system. Cooling - Necessity of cooling, air-cooling and water cooling. Lubrication
– Mist, splash and forced system.
UNIT III
Drive Line: Clutches, principle, single plate clutch, multi plate clutch and centrifugal clutch.
Gear box - Need, sliding mesh, constant mesh and synchromesh gear box. Propeller shaft,
universal joint, differential, wheels and tyres.
UNIT IV
Running Systems: Suspension systems – Objective, rigid axle and independent suspension
system and torsion bar. Steering system – Layout, steering mechanism, steering geometry
119
R15
and steering gearboxes. Brake system – Principle, stopping distance, types of brakes and
actuation.
UNIT V
Electrical Systems: Starting system - Principle, working of different starter drive units and
solenoid switches. Ignition system - Conventional ignition system types, ignition advance and
retarding mechanisms. Charging system - Alternator principle, construction and working, cut-
outs and regulators.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Heinz Heisler, “Advanced Vehicle Technology”. Butterworth Heinemann Publishers, 2002.
2. Crouse W H, “Automobile Electrical Equipment” , McGraw Hill Book Co., Inc., New York
3rd edition,1986.
REFERENCES
1. Garrett T K, Newton K. and Steeds W. “Motor Vehicle”, Butter Worths & Co. Publishers
Ltd., New Delhi, 2001.
2. Kholi P L, “Automotive Electrical Equipment”, Tata McGraw Hill Co., Ltd., New Delhi,
1975.
3. Crouse W H, "Automotive Chassis and Body," McG raw Hill Book Co., 5th edition, 1976.
4. .Giri N K, Automotive Mechanics, Khanna Publications, 2006.
120
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(5BS71) PROFESSIONAL ETHICS AND HUMAN VALUES
Introduction
Human values and ethics have a significant role to play in the betterment of our society. Ethics
and values are a liberating force, enabling higher performance, better quality relationships and
an expanded sense of purpose and identity. This syllabus aims to present a framework for
understanding human values and their role in life, work, business and leadership. It aims to
transform individuals from having self-focused, survivalist mindset that has scant regard for
ethics, through to compliance with laws and conventions, and then to the aspiration to live a
higher ethical and spiritual life.
It mainly focuses on improving the capacities of leadership /management through training in
human values and professional ethics. It serves to contribute to good governance in the
organizations and foster an environment that supports and encourages just practices and fair
play.
Course objectives
• Create an awareness on Engineering Ethics and Human Values
• Study the moral issues and decisions confronting individuals and organizations
engaged in engineering profession
• Study the related issues about the moral ideals, character, policies, and
relationships of people and corporations involved in technological activity
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Learn the moral issues and problems in engineering; find the solution to those
problems
• Learn the need for professional ethics, codes of ethics and roles, concept of safety,
risk assessment
• Gain exposure to Environment Ethics & computer ethics; know their responsibilities
and rights
UNIT I
Introduction to Human Values and Ethics Human Values: Morals, Values and Ethics –
Integrity – Work Ethic – ServiceLearning – Civic Virtue – Respect for Others – Living
121
R15
Peacefully – caring – Sharing –Honesty – Courage – Valuing Time – Co-operation –
Commitment – Empathy – Self-Confidence – Character – Spirituality.
Introduction to Ethical Concepts: Definition of industrial ethics and values, Ethical rules of
industrial worker- Values and Value Judgments -- Moral Rights and Moral rules 121 -- Moral
character and responsibilities -- Privacy, confidentiality, Intellectual property and the law --
Ethics as law.
UNIT II
Understanding Engineering Ethics: Action Oriented- Ethical Vision- Indian Ethos- Ethics
Defined-Engineering Ethics: Various Connotations of Engineering Ethics, Why Study
Engineering Ethics?, Personal and Business Ethics-Ethics and the Law-Senses of
‘Engineering Ethics’ – Variety of moral issues –Types of inquiry – Moral dilemmas – Moral
Autonomy – Kohlberg’s theory –Gilligan’s theory – Consensus and Controversy – Professions
and Professionalism –Professional Ideals and Virtues – Theories about right action –
Selfinterest –Customs and Religion – Uses of Ethical Theories -Engineering as a Profession --
Professional Societies -- Core Qualities of Professional Practitioners -- Professional
Institutions, Operating in a Pluralistic Society - Environments and Their Impact - Economic
Environment -- Capital Labor-- Price Levels -- Government Fiscal and Tax Policies –
Customers – Technology.
UNIT III
Engineering as Social Experimentation – Comparison with Standard Experiments,
Knowledge Gained Conscientiousness, Relevant Information, Learning from the Past,
Engineers as managers, consultants, and Leaders, Accountability, Engineers as responsible
Experimenters – Codes of Ethics – A Balanced Outlook on Law. Engineers and Managers --
Organizational complaint procedures - Government agencies Resolving Employee concerns –
Limits on acceptable behavior in large corporations -- Ethical and legal considerations,
Organizational responses to offensive behaviour and harassment.
UNIT IV
Workplace Rights and Responsibilities Professional Responsibility: The basis and scope
of Professional Responsibility -- Professions and Norms of Professional Conduct -- Ethical
Standards versus Profession -- Culpable mistakes -- the Autonomy of professions and codes
of ethics - - Employee status and Professionalism -- Central Professional Responsibilities of
Engineers: The emerging consensus on the Responsibility for safety among engineers,
Hazards and Risks. Safety and Risk – Assessment of Safety and Risk – Risk Benefit Analysis
and reducing risk - Ethical standards vs. Professional conduct - Collegiality and Loyalty –
Respect for Authority – Collective Bargaining –Confidentiality – Conflicts of Interest –
Occupational Crime – Professional Rights –Employee Rights – Intellectual Property Rights
(IPR) – Discrimination - Organizational complaint procedures - Government agencies -
Resolving Employee concerns.
122
R15
UNIT V
Ethics in Global Context and Global Issues: Multinational Corporations – Environmental
Ethics – Computer Ethics – Weapons Development – Engineers as Managers – Consulting
Engineers – Engineers as Expert Witnesses and Advisors – Moral Leadership – Sample Code
of Ethics like ASME, ASCE, IEEE, Institution of Engineers (India), Indian Institute of Materials
Management, Institution of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers (IETE), India,
etc.122.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Ethics in Engineering, Mike Martin and Roland Schinzinger, McGraw Hill. New York 1996.
2. Ethics in Engineering Practice and Research, Caroline Whitbeck, Elsevier.
3. Engineering Ethics, Govindarajan. M, Natarajan. S, Senthilkumar. V.S, Prentice Hall of
India, 2004.
REFERENCES
1. Engineering Ethics, Charles D Fleddermann, Prentice Hall, New Jersey, 2004 (Indian
Reprint).
2. Engineering Ethics Concepts and Cases, Charles E Harris, Michael S Pritchard and
Michael J Rabins, Thompson Learning, United States, 2000 (Indian Reprint now
available).
3. Ethics and the Conduct of Business, John R Boatright, Pearson Education, New Delhi,
2003.
4. Fundamentals of Ethics for Scientists and Engineers, Edmund G Seebauer and Robert L
Barry, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2001.
5. Ethics in Engineering, Fourth Edition, Mike W. Martin, Rolan Schinzinger, Mc Graw Hill
publishers.
6. Engineering Ethics-An industrial Perspective, Gail Dawn Baura.
7. Ethics and Values in Industrial-Organizational Psychology, Joel Lefkowitz.
123
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year I Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5ME59) PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY LABORATORY
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisite: Production Technology.
Course Objectives
• Understand and evaluate casting techniques and sand properties
• Understand different welding processes and their use
• Understand different press working operations
• Understand about the processing of plastics
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply the knowledge involved in casting techniques
• Decide the selection of various welding techniques applicable for different materials
• Integrate the knowledge involved in press working operations
• Analyze the techniques involved in processing of plastics
Minimum 12 exercises to be performed from the following
METAL CASTING
1. Pattern Design and making - for one casting drawing.
2. Sand properties testing - Exercise -for strengths, and permeability – 1
3. Moulding Melting and Casting - 1 Exercise
WELDING
1. Arc Welding Lap and Butt Joint - 2 Exercises
2. Spot Welding - 1 Exercise
3. TIG Welding - 1 Exercise
4. MIG Welding - 1 Exercise
5. Brazing - 1 Exercise
MECHANICAL PRESS WORKING
1. Blanking and Piercing operations
2. Bending operation
PROCESSING OF PLASTICS
1. Injection Moulding
2. Blow Moulding
124
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year I Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5ME60) HEAT AND MASS TRANSFER LABORATORY
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Thermodynamics and Heat and Mass Transfer.
Course Objectives
• Analyze various modes of heat transfer experimentally.
• Measure heat transfer through conduction
• Measure heat transfer through natural and forced convection
• Measure heat transfer through radiation
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Identify and analyse the mode of heat transfer
• Evaluate thermal conductivity of lagged pipe , metal bar and insulating powder
• Evaluate Heat transfer coefficient for natural and forced convection
• Evaluate emissivity of the given metal
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
Any 10 experiments to be conducted from the following
1. Determination of Thermal Conductivity of given Metal Rod.
2. Determination of Stefan Boltzmann Constant.
3. To find out Critical Heat Flux
4. Determination of Overall Heat Transfer coefficient of Composite Wall.
5. Determination of thermal conductivity of Lagged Pipe.
6. Determination of Heat Transfer coefficient in Forced Convection Apparatus.
7. Determination of Heat Transfer coefficient in Natural Convection Apparatus.
8. Determination of Thermal Conductivity of Insulating Powder.
9. Determination of effectiveness of heat exchanger.
10. Measurement of Emissivity of given test plate .
11. Heat Transfer in Dropwise and Film Wise Condensation.
12. Determination of heat transfer coefficient and instantaneous heat transfer rate for
Transient heat Conduction
125
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS41) BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Basic knowledge about Economics, Finance and Business.
Course Objectives
• Explain different forms of organizing private and public sector business enterprises
and to analyze the significance of Business Economics in solving the problems of
business enterprise. Also to define and analyze the concepts of Demand, Elasticity
of Demand and Demand Forecasting Methods
• Analyze the various types of costs and to determine the level of output at which
there is neither profit nor loss. To estimate capital requirements and to describe
various sources of mobilizing funds. Also to identify least cost combinations of inputs
produce desired quantity of output
• Describe the features of different market structure and pricing strategies
• Explain the basic accounting concepts and conventions. To elaborate the
importance of finance function for evaluating the economic status of a business unit
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Select the suitable form of business organization which meets the requirement of
selected business also perform decision – making function effectively in an uncertain
frame work by applying concepts of Managerial Economics. Meet and manipulate
the demand efficiently and plan the future course of action
• Apply right kind cost to reduce cost by paying attention towards the costs which can
be reduced. Take decision whether to buy or produce? Reduce the cost of capital by
selecting best source of fund mobilization and select best investment opportunity
which yields higher rate of return
• Fix the right price which can best meets the predetermined objectives of the
business firm under different market conditions. Able to select best combination of
inputs to produce required quantity of output
• Prepare books of accounts and know over all financial position of the business
enterprise which enables the concerned to take appropriate measures to improve the
situation. Also interpret the financial position from difference angles and initiates the
measures/ efforts in that direction
126
R15
UNIT I
Business and New Economic Environment: Characteristic features of business; Features
and evaluation of sole proprietorship; Partnership; Joint stock company; Public enterprises and
their types; Changing business environment in post- liberalization scenario.
UNIT II
Introduction to Business Economics and Demand Analysis: Definition; Nature and scope
of managerial economics - demand analysis determinants; Law of demand and its exceptions.
Elasticity of Demand and Demand Forecasting: Definition; Types; Measurement and
significance of elasticity of demand; Demand forecasting; Factors governing demand
forecasting; Methods of demand forecasting - Survey methods, statistical methods, Expert
opinion method, Test marketing, Controlled experiments, and Judgmental approach to
demand forecasting.
UNIT III
Cost Analysis: Cost concepts - Opportunity cost, Fixed vs. Variable costs, Explicit costs vs.
Implicit costs, and Out of pocket costs vs. Imputed costs; Break-even analysis (BEA) -
determination of break-even point (simple problems), managerial significance, and limitations
of BEA.
Capital and Capital Budgeting: Capital and its significance; Types of capital; Estimation of
fixed and working capital requirements; Methods and sources of raising finance.
Nature and scope of capital budgeting; Features of capital budgeting proposals; Methods of
capital budgeting - payback method, Accounting Rate of Return (ARR), and Net Present Value
method (simple problems)
UNIT IV
Theory of Production: Production function - isoquants and isocosts, least cost combination of
inputs, and laws of returns; Internal and external economies of scale.
Market Structures: Types of competition; Features of perfect competition, Monopoly, and
Monopolistic competition; Price-output determination in case of perfect competition and
Monopoly.
Pricing Policies and Methods: Cost plus pricing; Marginal cost pricing; Sealed bid pricing;
Going rate pricing, Limit pricing, Market skimming pricing, Penetration pricing, Two-part
pricing, Block pricing, Bundling pricing, Peak load pricing, Cross subsidization.
UNIT V
Introduction to Financial Accounting: Double-entry book keeping; Journal; Ledger; Trial
balance; Final accounts - trading account, profit and loss account, and balance sheet with
simple adjustments.
Financial Analysis through Ratios: Computation; Analysis and interpretation of liquidity
ratios - current ratios, and quick ratio; Activity ratios - Inventory Turnover ratio, and Debtor
127
R15
Turnover ratio; Capital structure ratios – Debt-Equity ratio, and Interest Coverage Ratio;
Profitability ratios - Gross profit Ratio, Net Profit Ratio, Operating Ratio, P/E ratio, and EPs.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Managerial Economics and Financial Analysis by Aryasri, Tata McGraw Hill, 2009.
2. Managerial Economics by Varshney & Maheswari, Sultan Chand, 2009.
REFERENCES
1. Financial Accounting for Management: An analytical perspective by Ambrish Gupta,
Pearson Education, 2010.
2. Managerial Economics by H. Craig Peterson & W. Cris Lewis, Prentice Hall of India.
128
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year II Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5AE07) AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING DESIGN – II
Course Prerequisites: Mechanics of Materials, Engineering Design, Material science and
Technical Drawing.
Course Objectives
• Provide bearing selection, materials and design
• Design of engine components and beams
• Design of power transmission elements and system
• Understand the design considerations for clutchs and brakes
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Select bearings, identify materials and design
• Analyse engine components and beams
• Analyse power transmission elements and system
• Assess the design considerations for clutchs and brakes
UNIT I
Bearings: Types of Journal bearings, lubrication, bearing modulus, full and partial bearings,
clearance ratio, heat dissipation of bearings, bearing materials, journal bearing design, ball
and roller bearings, static loading of ball and roller bearings, bearing life and bearing selection.
UNIT II
Engine Parts: Pistons, forces acting on piston, construction, design and proportions of piston,
cylinder and cylinder liners.
Connecting Rod: Thrust in connecting rod, stress due to whipping action on connecting rod
ends, cranks and crank shafts, strength and proportions of over hung and overview of center
cranks; crank pins and crank shafts.
Design of Vehicle Gear Box: 3-Speed gear box, 4-speed gear box and steering gear
mechanism design.
UNIT III
Design of Curved Beams: Introduction, stresses in curved beams, expression for radius of
neutral axis for rectangular, circular, trapezoidal and T-Section. Design of crane hooks and C –
clamps.
129
R15
Power Transmissions Systems, Pulleys: Transmission of power by belt and rope drives,
transmission efficiencies, belts – flat and v types, ropes, pulleys for belt and rope drives,
materials and chain drives.
UNIT IV
Spur and Helical Gear Drives: Spur gears, helical gears, load concentration factor, dynamic
load factor, surface compressive strength, bending strength, design analysis of spur gears,
estimation of centre distance, module and face width, check for plastic deformation and check
for dynamic and wear considerations.
UNIT V
Clutches: Torque transmitting capacity, multi-disk clutches, friction materials, cone clutches,
centrifugal clutches, energy equation and thermal considerations.
Brakes: Energy equations, block break with short shoe, block break and pivoted block break
with long shoe, internal expanding break, band breaks, disk brakes and thermal
considerations.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Machine Design by V. Bhandari; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Machine Design by R. L. Norton.
REFERENCES
1. Mechanics of Materials (SI Units) by Beer & Johnson; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Data Books: P.S.G. College of Technology.
3. Mechanical Engineering Design by J. E. Shigley.
4. Machine Design by R. S. Khurmi & J. S. Gupta; Publisher: Sultan Chand.
5. Machine Design (SI Units) by Schaums Outline Series; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
130
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5AE08) VEHICLE DYNAMICS
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Physics and Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives
• Identify the difference between static loads and dynamic loads on vehicle
• Review the performance of a vehicle in braking and acceleration
• Assess different road loads on vehicle
• Provide ride and handling concepts of a vehicle
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Calculate static loads and dynamic loads on vehicle
• Evaluate different braking and acceleration forces
• Estimate different road loads of a vehicle
• Identify difference between ride and handling of a vehicle
UNIT I
Introduction: Fundamental approach to modelling - lumped mass, vehicle fixed coordinate
system, motion variables, earth fixed coordinate system, Euler angles, forces, newton’s
second law, dynamic axle loads - static loads on level ground, low-speed acceleration and
loads on grades.
Acceleration Performance: Power-limited acceleration-engines, power train, automatic
transmissions, traction-limited acceleration - transverse weight shift due to drive torque and
traction limits.
UNIT II
Braking Performance: Constant deceleration, deceleration with wind resistance,
energy/power, braking forces - rolling resistance aerodynamic drag, driveline drag, grade,
brakes - brake factor, tire-road friction – velocity, inflation pressure, vertical load, brake
proportionating, anti-lock braking systems, braking efficiency, rear wheel lockup and pedal
force gain.
UNIT III
Road Loads: Aerodynamics - mechanics of air flow around a vehicle, pressure distribution on
a vehicle, aerodynamic forces, drag components, aerodynamics aids - bumper spoilers, air
131
R15
dams, deck lid spoilers, window and pillar treatments, optimization, drag - air density, drag
coefficient, side force, lift force, pitching moment, yawing moment, rolling moment, crosswind
sensitivity, rolling resistance - factors affecting rolling resistance, tire temperature, tire inflation
pressure/load, velocity, tire material and design and tire slip.
UNIT IV
Ride: Excitation sources - road roughness, tire/wheel assembly, driveline excitation,
engine/transmission, vehicle response properties - suspension isolation, suspension stiffness,
suspension damping, active control, wheel hop responses, suspension nonlinearities, rigid
body bounce/pitch motions and bounce pitch frequencies.
UNIT V
Handling: Introduction, low speed turning, high speed cornering - tire cornering forces and
cornering equations, understeer gradient, characteristic speed, critical speed, lateral
acceleration gain, yaw velocity gain, sideslip angle, static margin, suspension effects on
cornering - roll moment distribution, camber change, roll steer, lateral force compliance steer,
aligning torque, effect of tractive force on cornering and summery of under steer effects.
Introduction to simple roll models of rigid vehicle and suspended vehicle.
TEXT BOOK
1. Thomas D Gillespie, “Fundamentals of Vehicle dynamics”, SAE, USA, 1992.
REFERENCES
1. Wong J Y, “Theory of Ground Vehicles”, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA, 1978.
2. Giri N K, “Automobile Mechanics”, 8th edition, Khanna Pub. 2008.
132
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5AE09) MACHINE TOOLS AND METROLOGY
Course Prerequisites: Physics, Theory of Machines and Production Technology
Course Objectives
• Understand the basic concepts of metal cutting
• Provide working principles of different machines tools and their applications
• Demonstrate basic concepts of limits, fits and tolerances, selective assembly and
Interchangeability
• Appraise working principles of various linear, angular, taper, screw thread, flat
surface, surface roughness and optical measuring devices
Course Outcomes
Students should be able to
• Apply elementary knowledge of metal cutting to modeling and analysis of cutting
forces, power in machining process
• Work on various machine tools to produce components
• Use limits, fits and tolerances
• Work with various measuring devices to measure linear, angular, surface texture
measurements
UNIT I
Theory of Metal Cutting: Elements of cutting process, classification of cutting tools, geometry
of single point tool, orthogonal cutting, chip formation and types of chips. Force relationships
(Merchant’s force circle), velocity relationships, cutting speed, feed, depth of cut. Tool wear
and tool life, coolants, machinability and tool materials.
Engine Lathe: Principle of working, classification, specifications, parts, work holders, tool
holders, lathe attachments, operations performed and machining time.
Overview on turret and capstan lathes and automatic lathes
UNIT II
Milling Machine: Principle of working, classification, specifications, features of horizontal,
vertical and universal milling machines, milling cutters, operations performed, overview on
indexing and machining time.
Shaping, Slotting and Planning Machines: Principle of working, parts, specifications,
classification, operations performed.
133
R15
Drilling and Boring Machines: Principle of working, parts, specifications, classification and
operations performed.
UNIT III
Grinding Machine: Fundamentals, classification, types of abrasives, bonds, specifications of
a grinding wheel.
Introduction to Super Finishing Operations: lapping, honing and broaching and comparison
to grinding.
Introduction to jigs and fixtures.
Systems of Limits and Fits: Introduction, normal size, tolerances, limits, deviations,
allowances, fits and their types, unilateral and bilateral tolerance system, hole and shaft basis
systems. Interchangeability and selective assembly. Introduction to standard systems.
Linear Measurement: Length standard, line and end standards - slip gauges, dial indicator,
vernier caliper and micrometer.
Measurement of Angles and Tapers: Bevel protractor, slip gauges, spirit level and sine bar.
Flat Surface Measurement: Instruments used - straight edges and surface plates.
UNIT IV
Limit Gauges: Taylor’s principle – Design of Go and No Go gauges, plug, ring, snap, gap and
taper gauges.
Surface Roughness Measurement: Differences between surface roughness and surface
waviness, numerical assessment of surface finish – CLA, Ra, R.M.S and Rz. Methods of
measurement of surface finish – Profilograph.
Optical Measuring Instruments: Tool maker’s microscope and optical projector - its uses.
Overview on measurement through comparators
UNIT V
Screw Thread Measurement: Element of measurement, errors in screw threads,
measurement of effective diameter, angle of thread and thread pitch.
Gear Measurement: Measuring instruments, Gear tooth profile - Measurement of diameter,
pitch, pressure angle and tooth thickness.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Manufacturing Technology (Volume 2) - Metal Cutting and Machine Tools by P N Rao,
Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Engineering Metrology by Mahajan.
3. Production Technology by R.K. Jain and S.C. Gupta.
134
R15
REFERENCES
1. Manufacturing Engineering and Technology by Kalpakjian, Wesley.
2. Elements of Workshop Technology Vol. I and II, by Hajara Chowdhary, Indian Book
Distributors, Calcutta.
3. Production Technology by H.M.T. (Hindustan Machine Tools).
4. Engineering Metrology by R.K. Jain, Khanna Publishers.
5. Precision Engineering in Manufacturing by RL Murthy, New Age.
135
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(5CE72) INTRODUCTION TO GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM
Course Objectives
• Describe and define various concepts of Remote Sensing and GIS
• Enable the students to analyze data using GIS
• Make the students appraise the importance of accuracy in GIS
• Enable the students to apply GIS knowledge in solving various problems in real
world scenario
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Describe different concepts and terms used in GIS
• Compare and process different data sets
• Evaluate the accuracy and decide whether a data set can be used or not
• Demonstrate various applications GIS
UNIT I
Introduction to GIS: Introduction, History of GIS, GIS Components, GIS Applications in Real
life, The Nature of geographic data, Maps, Types of maps, Map scale, Types of scale, Map
and Globe, Co-ordinate systems, Map projections, Map transformation, Geo-referencing,
UNIT II
Spatial Database Management System: Introduction: Spatial DBMS, Data storage,
Database structure models, database management system, entity-relationship model,
normalization
Data models and data structures: Introduction, GIS Data model, vector data structure,
raster data structure, attribute data, geo-database and metadata,
UNIT III
Spatial Data input and Editing: Data input methods – keyboard entry, digitization, scanning,
conversion of existing data, remotely sensed data, errors in data input, Data accuracy, Micro
and Macro components of accuracy, sources of error in GIS.
Spatial Analysis: Introduction, topology, spatial analysis, vector data analysis, Network
analysis, raster data analysis, Spatial data interpolation techniques
136
R15
UNIT IV
Implementing a GIS: Awareness, developing system requirements, evaluation of alternative
systems, decision making using GIS.
Advanced GIS: WebGIS concept, webGIS fundamentals, Potential of web GIS, Server side
strategies, client side strategies, mixed strategies and webGIS applications
UNIT V
Applications of GIS: GIS based road network planning, Shortest path detection using GIS,
Hazard Zonation using remote sensing and GIS, GIS for solving multi criteria problems, GIS
for business applications and Mineral mapping using GIS.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Geographic Information systems by Kang-tsung Chang, McGrawHill
Education (Indian Edition), 7th Edition, 2015.
2. Fundamentals of Geographic Information systems by Michael N. Demers, 4th Edition,
Wiley Publishers, 2012.
REFERENCES
1. Remote Sensing and GIS by Basudeb Bhatta, Oxford University Press, 2nd Revised
Edition, 2011.
2. Geographic Information systems – An Introduction by Tor Bernhardsen, Wiley India
Publication, 3rd Edition, 2010.
3. Textbook of Remote Sensing and Geographical Information systems by M.Anji Reddy,
B.S.Publications, 4th Edition, 2012.
4. Textbook of Remote Sensing and Geographical Information systems by Kali Charan
Sahu, Atlantic Publishers and Distributors, 1st Edition, 2007.
137
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(5EE72) ENERGY AUDITING CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives
• Understand the necessity of conservation of Energy
• Know the methods of Energy management
• Identity the factors to increase the efficiency of electrical equipment
• Know the benefits of carrying out energy Audits
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Conduct Energy Audit of industries
• Manage energy Systems
• Specify the methods of improving efficiency of electric motor
• Improve power factor and to design a good illumination system
• Calculate pay back periods for energy saving equipment
UNIT I
Basic Principles of Energy Audit: Energy audit- definitions, concept , types of audit, energy
index, cost index ,pie charts, Sankey diagrams, load profiles, Energy conservation schemes-
Energy audit of industries- energy saving potential, energy audit of process industry, thermal
power station and building energy audit.
UNIT II
Energy management: Principles of energy management, organizing energy management
program, initiating, planning, controlling, promoting, monitoring, reporting- Energy manager,
Qualities and functions, language, Questionnaire - check list for top management
UNIT III
Energy Efficient Motors: Energy efficient motors, factors affecting efficiency, loss distribution,
constructional details, characteristics - variable speed, variable duty cycle systems, RMS hp-
voltage variation-voltage unbalance- over motoring- motor energy audit.
UNIT IV
Power Factor Improvement, Lighting and Energy Instruments: Power factor – methods of
improvement, location of capacitors, p.f with non-linear loads, effect of harmonics on p.f. , p.f
motor controllers - Good lighting system design and practice, lighting control, lighting energy
138
R15
audit - Energy Instruments- watt meter, data loggers, thermocouples, pyrometers, flux meters,
tongue testers and application of PLC’s
UNIT V
Economic Aspects and Analysis: Economics Analysis-Depreciation Methods, time value of
money, rate of return, present worth method, replacement analysis, life cycle costing analysis-
Energy efficient motors- calculation of simple payback method, net present worth method-
Power factor correction, lighting - Applications of life cycle costing analysis and return on
investment.
REFERENCES
1. Energy management by W.R. Murphy & G. Mckay Butter worth, Heinemann publications.
2. Energy management by Paul o’ Callaghan, Mc-graw Hill Book company-1st edition, 1998.
3. Energy efficient electric motors by John .C. Andreas, Marcel Dekker Inc Ltd-2nd edition,
1995.
4. 4) Energy management handbook by W.C.Turner, John wiley and sons.
5. Energy management and good lighting practice: fuel efficiency- booklet12-EEO.
139
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(5ME72) OPTIMIZATION TECHNIQUES
Course Objectives
• Understand the classification of optimization techniques and its practical use
• Understand about the optimization of one dimensional optimization methods
• Knows about constrained minimization methods
• Understands Geometric and dynamic programmings
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply the different types of optimization techniques for different purposes
• Formulate and solve the problems by using one dimensional unconstrained
minimization methods
• Formulate and solve the problems (industrial/research) by using the geometric
programming
• Formulate and solve the industrial problems by using the dynamic programming
methods
UNIT I
Introduction: Engineering Applications; Statement of the Optimal Problem: Classification;
Optimization Techniques. Classical Methods: Single Variable Optimization; Multivariable
Optimization without any Constraints with Equality and Inequality Constraints.
UNIT II
One-Dimensional Minimization Methods: Uni-model Function; Elimination Methods –
Dichotomous Search, Fibonacce and Golden Section Methods; Interpolation Methods –
Quadratic and Cubic Interpolation Methods.
UNIT III
Unconstrained Minimization Methods: Univariate, Conjugate Directions, Gradient and
Variable Metric Methods. Constrained Minimization Methods: Characteristics of a constrained
problem; Direct Methods of feasible directions; Indirect Methods of interior and exterior penalty
functions.
140
R15
UNIT IV
Geometric Programming: Formulation and Solutions of Unconstrained and Constrained
geometric programming problems.
UNIT V
Dynamic Programming: Concept of Sub-optimization and the principle of optimality;
Calculus, Tabular and Computational Methods in Dynamic Programming; An Introduction to
Continuous Dynamic Programming.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Optimization (Theory & Applications) – S.S. Rao, Wiley Eastern Ltd., New Delhi.
2. Optimization Concepts and Applications in Engineering - Ashok D.Belegundu and
Tirupathi R Chandrupatla -- Pearson Education.
REFERENCES
1. Optimization: Theory and Practice, C.S.G. Beveridge and R.S. Schechter, MGH, New
York.
2. Genetic Algorithms in search, Optimization and Machine, Goldberg D. E., Addison-
Wesley-NewYork.
3. Optimization for Engineering Design Algorithms and Examples, Kalyanamoy Deb,
Prentice Hall of India.
141
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(5EC72) INTRODUCTION TO MICRO PROCESSORS AND CONTROLLERS
Course Objectives
• Differentiate various number systems
• Develop simple application using 8085 microprocessors
• Develop simple applications using 8051 microcontrollers
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand basic computing concepts
• Know architecture of 8085 micro processors and 8051 Microcontrollers
• Interface peripherals to microprocessor
• Program internal resources of 8051 microcontroller
UNIT I
Introduction to Computing: Numbering and Coding Systems: Binary, Decimal, Hexadecimal
and conversions, Binary and Hexadecimal Arithmetic, Complements, Alphanumeric codes.
Digital Premier and Inside the Computer.
UNIT II
8085 Microprocessor: Features, Architecture and operation of 8085, Programming Model,
External Memory for 8085.
UNIT III
Programmable Peripheral Devices: Programmable Peripheral Interface (8255), USART
(8251), Programmable Interval Timer (8253) and interfacing.
UNIT IV
8051 Microcontrollers: Microcontrollers and Embedded Processors, Overview of the 8051
family, Architecture and Programming Model of 8051, Timers and Counters, parallel and serial
ports, Interrupts, Special Function Register formats and Internal Memory Organization.
UNIT V
Applications: 8051 Programming in C: Data types for the 8051, programs for IO operations,
programs on Timer operations, Serial IO ports, and interrupts and Case Study: DC Motor
Control
142
R15
TEXT BOOKS
1. Microprocessor Architecture, Programming and Applications with the 8085/8080A,
Gaonkar
2. The 8051 Microcontroller and Embedded Systems: Using Assembly and C, 2nd Edition,
Muhammad Ali Mazidi,Janice Gillispie Mazidi, Rolin D. McKinlay
REFERENCES
1. The 8051 Microcontroller : programming, architecture by Ayala & Gadre, Cengage
Publications
2. Digital Design – Morris Mano, PHI, 3rd Edition, 2006.
143
R15
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5EC95) WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS AND NETWORKS
Prerequisite: Computer Networks
Course Objectives:
• Understand fundamentals of wireless communications
• Know basics of wireless networks
• Differentiate fixed IP and Mobile IP
• Learn design of basic wireless LAN network
Course outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the fundamental concepts of Cellular communications
• Differentiate various multiple access techniques
• Learn wireless protocols used in wireless Networks
• Understand mobile IP requirements
UNIT I
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS & SYSTEM FUNDAMENTALS:
Introduction to wireless communications systems, examples, comparisons & trends. Cellular
concepts-frequency reuse, strategies, interference & system capacity, trunking and grade of service,
improving coverage &capacity in cellular systems.
UNIT II
MULTIPLE ACCESS TECHNIQUES FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATION:
FDMA, TDMA, SSMA (FHMA/CDMA/Hybrid techniques), SDMA technique (AS applicable to
wireless communications). Packet radio access-protocols, CSMA protocols ,reservation protocols
,capture effect in packet radio , capacity of cellular systems .
UNIT III
WIRELESS NETWORKING:
Introduction, differences in wireless & fixed telephone networks, traffic routing in wireless networks –
circuit switching, packet switching X.25 protocol. Wireless data services – cellular digital packet data
(CDPD), advanced radio data information systems, RAM mobile data (RMD). Common channel
signaling (CCS), ISDN-Broad band ISDN & ATM, Signalling System no .7(SS7)-protocols, network
services part, user part, signaling traffic, services and performance.
144
R15
UNIT IV
MOBILE IP AND WIRELESS APPLICATION PROTOCOL:
Mobile IP Operation of mobile IP, Co-located address, Registration, Tunneling, WAP Architecture,
overview, WML scripts, WAP service, WAP session protocol, wireless transaction, Wireless
datagram protocol.
UNIT V
WIRELESS LAN TECHNOLOGY:
Infrared LANs, Spread spectrum LANs, Narrow bank microwave LANs, IEEE 802 protocol
Architecture, IEEE802 architecture and services, 802.11 medium access control, 802.11 physical
layer.
BLUE TOOTH: Overview, Radio specification, Base band specification, Links manager Specification,
Logical link control and adaptation protocol. Introduction to WLL Technology.
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Wireless Communication and Networking – William Stallings, PHI, 2003.
2. Wireless Communications, Principles, Practice – Theodore, S. Rappaport, PHI, 2nd Edn.,2002.
3. Principles of Wireless Networks – Kaveh Pah Laven and P. Krishna Murthy,Pearson Education,
2002.
REFERENCES:
1. Wireless Digital Communications – Kamilo Feher, PHI, 1999Page 26 of 38
145
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(5CS72) OPEN SOURCE TECHNOLOGIES
Course Objectives
• Understand Perl, Python, PHP and Ruby to new situations and learn from the
experience
• Assist Perl programmer or database administrator to compile large programming set
• Incorporate PHP into HTML files, Write basic PHP scripts, Process form input, Write
and use functions
• Apply advanced techniques, tools, and methodologies that can be used to build
complex, scalable, PHP applications
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply regular expressions to tokenize and validate data in a variety of languages
• Utilize Ruby to solve a wide range of text processing problems
• Understand the nuances and differences in a web based environment as compared
to more traditional environments
• Distinguish variety of languages to develop interactive web applications
UNIT I
Introduction to PERL: Scripts and Programs, Origin of Scripting, Scripting Today,
Characteristics of Scripting Languages, Web Scripting, and the universe of Scripting
Languages. PERL- Names and Values, Variables, Scalar Expressions, Control Structures,
arrays, list, hashes, strings, pattern and regular expressions, subroutines, advance Perl - finer
points of looping, pack and unpack, file system, eval, data structures, packages, modules,
objects, interfacing to the operating system, Creating Internet ware applications, Dirty Hands
Internet Programming and security Issues.
UNIT II
PHP Basics: PHP Basics- Features Embedding PHP Code in your Web pages, Outputting the
data to the browser, Data types, Variables, Constants, expressions, string interpolation, control
structures . Function, Creating a Function, Function Libraries, Arrays, strings and Regular
Expressions.
146
R15
UNIT III
Advanced PHP Programming: PHP and Web Forms, Files, PHI3 Authentication and
Methodologies -Hard Coded, File Based, Database Based, IP Based, Login Administration,
Uploading Files with PHI3, Sending Email using PHP, PHI3Encryption Functions, the Merypt
package, Building Web sites for the World - Translating Websites- Updating Web sites Scripts,
Creating the Localization Repository, Translating Files, text. Generate Binary Files, Set the
desired language within your scripts. Localizing Dates, Numbers and Times.
UNIT IV
Python: Introduction to Python language, python-syntax, statements, functions, Built-in-
functions and Methods, Modules in python, Exception Handling, Integrated Web Applications
in Python - Building Small, Efficient Python Web Systems ,Web Application Framework.
UNIT V
Ruby: Basics of Ruby, classes, objects and variable, arrays, Exception Handling, threads,
Regular Expressions, Strings and Objects in Ruby.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Programming Perl Larry Wall, T.Christiansen and J.Orwant, O’Reiily, SPD.
2. Guide to Programming with Python, M.Dawson, Cengage Learning.
3. The Ruby Programming Language 1st Edition by David Flanagan.
4. Professional PHP Programming by Jesus M. Castagnetto , Harish Rawat , Deepak T.
Veliath (WROX publication).
REFERENCES
1. Perl Power, J.P.Flynt, Cengage Learning.
2. Perl by Example, E, QuigIey, Pearson Education.
3. Programming Ruby: The Pragmatic Programmer's Guide, by Pragmatic Dave
Thomas, Andy Thomas.
4. Professional PHP6 by WROX publication.
147
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(5EI72) LABVIEW PROGRAMMING
Course Objectives
• Understand the new concept in measurement and automation
• Understand how to control an external measuring device by interfacing a computer
• Competent in data acquisition and instrument control
• Program for networking and other applications like Digital image processing control
system and signal processing
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Develop a Virtual Instrument using LabVIEW to communicate with real world
• Identify salient traits of a virtual instrument and incorporate these traits in their
projects
• Experiment, analyze and document in the laboratory prototype measurement
• Develop program for application like networking, Digital image processing, control
system, etc.
UNIT I
Virtual Instrumentation: Historical perspective, advantages, block diagram and architecture
of a virtual instrument, data-flow techniques, graphical programming in data flow, comparison
with conventional programming. Development of Virtual Instrument using GUI and Active X
Programming.
UNIT II
Structures and Sequence: Controlling program execution with structures: While and For
loops, Shift registers, Case and Sequence structure and Sub VI
UNIT III
Composite Data and Displays: Arrays and Structures: Two dimension array, Auto Indexing
to set the for loop count, Building arrays with auto indexing, Array Acrobats, Polymorphism,
Cluster Order, Cluster to pass data, Bundling and unbundling cluster, Interchangeable arrays
and cluster , Error Cluster and Error handling functions: Chart update modes, Single Plot
chart, Wiring multiple plot chart, Single Plot verus Multiple plot data types, The X scroll bar,
clearing the chart, Stacked and overlaid plots, Multiple Y scales and chart history lengths.:
148
R15
Activity: Temperature monitor, Graphing a sine wave, XY plot to plot a circle, Temperature
analysis and 3D graphs.
UNIT IV
Strings, File output and Signal Measurements and Generation: Single line strings, online
string updation, Scroll bar, Writing and reading a measurement file,Writing and reading from a
spread sheet,Computer to real world interface using LabVIEW, Creating Ni DAQ Task in
Measurement and Automation Explorer (MAX), Generating code from MAX, DAQ timing and
trigger, Multichannel and continuous acquisition, Streaming Data file and Counting frequency
and events.VI Chassis requirements. Common Instrument Interfaces: Current loop, RS 232C/
RS485, GPIB.
UNIT V
Applications: Networking basics for office & Industrial applications, VISA and IVI, VI toolsets,
Distributed I/O modules, Development of Control system, Industrial Communication, Image
acquisition and processing,
TEXT BOOKS
1. Gary Johnson, LabVIEW Graphical Programming, 2nd edition,McGraw Hill, Newyork,
1997.
2. Lisa K. wells & Jeffrey Travis, LabVIEW for everyone, Prentice Hall, New Jersey, 1997.
REFERENCES
1. Kevin James, PC Interfacing and Data Acquisition: Techniques for Measurement,
Instrumentation and Control, Newnes,2000.
2. Rick Bitter ,LabVIEW advanced programming technique, 2nd Edition, CRC Press,2005
3. Jovitha Jerome, Virtual Instrumentation using LabVIEW, 1st Edition, PHI, 2001.
149
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5EI79) FUNDAMENTALS OF ROBOTICS
Course Objectives
The course is intended for students to:
· Understand the Robot coordinate system and control system
· Learn different types of Robot sensors and actuators
· Identify different types of Robot grippers and their applications.
· Acquire Knowledge on kinematics and vision systems used for different Robots
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
· Gain knowledge about basic concepts of robots.
· Appreciate the usage of different actuators, sensors and grippers in Robotics.
· Analyze the direct and the inverse kinematic problems.
· Able to identify the applications of Machine Vision in Robotics.
UNIT I:
Basic Concepts:
An over view of Robotics, classification of Robots, Robot Components, Robot degrees of freedom,
Robot Joints, Robot Coordinates, Robot reference frames, Programming modes, Robot
Characteristics.
UNIT II:
Sensors:
Sensor characteristics, Position sensors, Velocity sensors, Acceleration sensors, Force and
Pressure sensors, Torque sensors, Microswitches, Light and infrared sensors, Touch and tactile
sensors, Proximity sensors, Range finders.
Unit III:
Actuators and Grippers:
Characteristics of actuating system, Comparison of actuating systems, Hydraulic actuators,
Pneumatic devices, Electric motors, Magneto-strictive actuators, Shape-Memory Metals, Electro-
active Polymer Actuators.
Classification of Grippers, Drive system for Grippers, Mechanical Grippers, Magnetic Grippers,
Vacuum Grippers, Adhesive Grippers, Hooks and Scoops, Gripper Force analysis and design,
Active and Passive Grippers.
UNIT IV:
Kinematics:
Robots as Mechanisms, Matrix Representation, Homogeneous Transformation Matrices,
Representation of Transformations, Inverse of Transformation Matrices, Forward and Inverse
Kinematics with Equations.
150
R15
UNIT V:
Vision:
Image acquisition, Illumination Techniques, Imaging Geometry, Basic Relationships between Pixels,
Segmentation, Description, Segmentation and Description of 3-D Structures, Recognition,
Interpretation.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Saeed B. Niku ,Introduction To Robotics : Analysis, Control, Applications ,Wiley, 2nd
Edition .
2. Deb.S.R, ”Robotics technology and flexible Automation”, John Wiley
REFERENCES
1. Mikell P Groover, Nicholas G Odrey, Mitchel Weiss, Roger N Nagel, Ashish Dutta,
“Industrial Robotics, Technology programming and Applications", McGraw Hill, 2012.
2. K.S.Fu, R.C.Gonzalez, C.S.G Lee, “Robotics- Control ,Sensing ,Vision and Intelligence
”,McGraw-Hill International Edition.
3. Klafter. R.D, Chimielewski. T.A, Negin. M, “Robotic Engineering–An integrated approach”,
Prentice Hall of India, New Delhi
151
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(5IT72) RELATIONAL DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Course Objectives
• Describe database management systems (DBMS) concepts and relational data
model
• Employ DBMS concepts to organize, maintain and retrieve information efficiently
and effectively from a DBMS
• Discuss the concepts of transactions and transaction processing systems
• Examine the issues and techniques relating to concurrency and recovery in multi-
user database environments
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Describe the fundamental concepts of database management. These concepts
include aspects of database design, database languages, and database-system
implementation
• Employ the Relational Database Model to understand the Logical and Physical
aspects of the DBMS architecture
• Analyse and apply normal forms for real time database applications.
• Evaluation of transaction properties and file organization methods
UNIT I
Introduction to Databases and Database Management System - Database system
Applications - Advantages of DBMS over File System - Data Models – Instances and schema
- View of Data - Database Languages -DDL-DML - Database Users and Administrator -
Database System Structure.
UNIT II
Database Design and ER diagrams – Attributes and Entity Sets – Relationships and
Relationship Sets – Constraints - Keys - Design Issues - Entity-Relationship Diagram- Weak
Entity Sets - Extended E-R Features - Database Design with ER model - Database Design
for Banking Enterprise
152
R15
UNIT III
Introduction to the Relational Model – Structure of RDBMS - Integrity Constraints over
Relations – Enforcing Integrity Constraints – Querying Relational Data - Relational Algebra
and Calculus.
Introduction to SQL- Data Definition commands, Data Manipulation Commands, Basic
Structure, Set operations Aggregate Operations - Join operations - Sub queries and correlated
queries, SQL functions , views ,Triggers, Embedded SQL.
UNIT IV
Functional Dependencies– Introduction , Basic Definitions, Trivial and Non trivial
dependencies, closure of a set of dependencies, closure of attributes, irreducible set of
dependencies- Schema Refinement in Database Design- Problems Caused by Redundancy –
Decompositions – Problem Related to Decomposition –- Lossless Join Decomposition –
Dependency Preserving Decomposition - FIRST, SECOND, THIRD Normal Forms – BCNF ––
Multi valued Dependencies – Fourth Normal Form.
UNIT V
Transaction concept- Transaction state- Implementation of atomicity and Durability-
Concurrent executions – Serializability, Recoverability
File Organization – Organization of records in file - Data Dictionary Storage – Indexing and
Hashing – Basic Concepts , Ordered Indices,B+Tree Index files, B- tree index files.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Database System Concepts, Silberschatz, Korth , Fifth Edition, McGraw hill.
2. Introduction to Database Systems, C.J.Date, Pearson Education.
REFERENCES
1. Fundamentals of Database Systems, Elmasri Navrate Pearson Education.
2. Database Management Systems, Raghu ramakrishnan, Johannes Gehrke, TATA Mc
Graw Hill.
3. Data base Systems design, Implementation, and Management, Peter Rob and Carlos
Coronel 7th Edition.
4. Data Base Systems using Oracle: A simplified guide to SQL and PL /SQL, Shah, PHI.
153
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(5AE72) MODERN AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGIES
Course objectives
• Provide an overview on advanced engine control system concepts
• Study the concepts and drivetrain configurations of electric and hybrid electric
vehicles
• Present principle, working and automotive applications of fuel cell and solar
technology
• Aware of intelligent vehicle technologies like navigation, safety, security and comfort
systems
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply advanced engine control system concepts in engineering
• Discuss electric and hybrid electric drivetrain technologies and drivetrain
components
• Describe automotive applications of fuel cell and solar technology
• Appreciate the technological advancements driver assistance systems
UNIT I
Advanced Engine Controls: Concept of an electronic engine control system, electronic fuel
injection - throttle body fuel injection, multi point fuel injection, gasoline direct injection,
common rail direct injection, electronic ignition control, engine mapping, on-board diagnostics
– engine control module and powertrain control module.
UNIT II
Electric and Hybrid Vehicles: Electric vehicles - Layout of an electric vehicle, performance,
energy consumption, advantage and limitations. Hybrid electric vehicles - Concepts, types of
hybrid drive train architecture, merits and demerits.
UNIT III
Fuel Cell and Solar Vehicles: Fuel cell vehicle – Operating principle, types of fuel cells, fuel
cell options for fuel cell vehicle and fuel cell hybrid vehicle. Solar vehicle - Solar photovoltaic
cell, solar array, solar car electrical system and drive train.
154
R15
UNIT IV
Telematics and Comfort Systems: Global positioning system, geographical information
systems, navigation system, automotive vision system, adaptive cruise control system, active
suspension system, power steering and power windows.
UNIT V
Safety and Security Systems: Active and passive safety, airbags, seat belt tightening
system, collision warning systems, anti lock braking systems, traction control system,
electronic immobilizers, remote keyless entry, smart card system, number plate coding.
TEXT BOOKS
1. William B Ribbens, “Understanding Automotive Electronics”, 5th edition, Butter worth
Heinemann Woburn,1998.
2. Mehrdad Ehsani, Yimin Gao, Sebastien E. Gay and Ali Emadi, “Modern Electric, Hybrid
Electric and Fuel Cell Vehicles: Fundamentals, Theory and Design”, CRC Press, 2005.
REFERENCES
1. “Automotive Hand Book” Robert Bosch, SAE, 5th edition, 2000.
2. Iqbal Husain, “Electric and Hybrid Vehicles: Design Fundamentals, CRC Press, 2003.
3. Ljubo Vlacic, Michel Parent and Fumio Harashima, “Intelligent Vehicle Technologies”,
Butterworth-Heinemann publications, Oxford, 2001.
4. “Navigation and Intelligent Transportation Systems – Progress in Technology”, Ronald K
Jurgen, Automotive Electronics Series, SAE, USA, 1998.
155
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(5BS72) ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Course objectives
• Introduce basics of entrepreneurship development and the skills set required for
innovation
• Understand changing business trends to enhance decision making skills.
• Learn analytical and conceptual skills of identifying opportunities and check on their
feasibility for start-ups
• Motivate the engineers to choose entrepreneurship as a career for personal and
societal growth
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Identify business opportunities and equip themselves in preparing business plans
• Analyze and evaluate different proposals and its requirements for start-ups
• Pitch the ideas to launch their own venture
• Assess the impact of competition and find methods to overcome the problems in
business
UNIT I
Entrepreneurial Skills-Opportunities: Entrepreneurship as a career, Personality and Skill
Set of Entrepreneur, The Wisdom of Five WHY’s and in action, Value and Growth-Stories of
Successful Enterprises.
Innovation and Entrepreneurship: Three Learning Milestones of Innovation: Use of
Minimum Viable Product-Start-ups must tune the baseline towards the ideal-Pivot or
Persevere.
UNIT II
Changing Business Environment-Role of Entrepreneur: The Role of Quality and Design,
Beyond “The right place at the right time”, Current trends in Business, Entrepreneurial
Management.
UNIT III
Origins of Lean Start-up-Business Plans: The Concept of Vision to Steering: From Start-
Define-Learn-Experiment to Leap-Test-Measure-Pivot.
UNIT IV
Validation of Projects and Products: Projects Evaluation by Budgeting Techniques, Value
vs Waste, Analogs and Antilogs, Analysis Paralysis, Why first products are not meant to be
perfect-Experiences, Forecasting and Experimenting of Products.
156
R15
UNIT V
Start-up Methods and Understanding Competition: Accelerating Start-up’s, optimization
versus learning, Kanban Diagram of work as it progresses from stage to stage, the value of
three A’s: Actionable, Accessible and Auditable, Engines of growth to determine
product/market fit, adopting smaller batches, reasons for Failures in Start-up’s, Pricing
Strategies Based On Competition
TEXT BOOKS
1. Eric Ries, “The Lean Startup”, Crown Business, New York. v.3.1.
2. Hisrich, Entrepreneurship, Tata McGraw Hill, New Delhi, 2001.
3. S.S. Khanka, Entrepreneurial Development, S. Chand and Company Limited, New Delhi,
2001.
REFERENCES
1. Mathew Manimala, Entrepreneurship Theory at the Crossroads, Paradigms & Praxis,
Biztrantra ,2nd Edition ,2005
2. Prasanna Chandra, Projects – Planning, Analysis, Selection, Implementation and
Reviews, Tata McGraw-Hill, 1996.
3. P.Saravanavel, Entrepreneurial Development, Ess Pee kay Publishing House, Chennai -
1997.
4. Arya Kumar. Entrepreneurship. Pearson. 2012
5. Donald F Kuratko, T.V Rao. Entrepreneurship: A South Asian perspective. Cengage
Learning. 2012
157
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year II Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5ME61) MACHINE TOOLS AND METROLOGY LABORATORY
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisite: Machine tools, Metrology and Engineering Materials
Course Objectives
• Remember the working principles of various machine tools and their accessories
• Remember the significance of operating parameters and selection of cutting tools for
performing machining operations
• Familiarize the calibration and measurement process
• Impart the knowledge on characteristics of measuring instruments
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Perform various operations on various machine tools
• Choose the appropriate cutting tools for various machining operations
• Measure the tolerances attained in different machining operations
• Perform analysis on the data attained from measuring instruments
MACHINE TOOLS: Any Six experiments
1. Introduction of general purpose machines - Lathe, drilling machine, milling machine,
shaper, slotting machine, cylindrical grinder, surface grinder and tool and cutter grinder.
2. Exercise on facing, turning, step turning and taper turning on lathe machine.
3. Exercise on grooving, thread cutting and knurling on lathe machine.
4. Exercise on drilling, boring, counter boring, counter sinking and tapping operations on
drilling machine.
5. Exercise on shaping to prepare plain surfaces.
6. Exercise on slotting to prepare contour surfaces.
7. Exercise on milling to perform plain /gear cutting.
8. Exercise on cylindrical surface grinding machine.
9. Exercise on grinding of tool angles.
Demonstration on
Different methods of Taper Turning, Boring, Collar turning, use of four jaw chuck on lathe,
Cutting of V - block on shape, Key way cutting on shaper/milling.
158
R15
METROLOGY: Any Six experiments
1. Measurement of lengths, heights, diameters by vernier calipers micrometers etc.
2. Measurement of bores by internal micrometers and dial bore indicators.
3. Use of gear teeth, Vernier calipers and checking the chordal addendum and chordal
height of spur gear.
4. Machine tool alignment test on a lathe.
5. Machine tool alignment test on a milling machine.
6. Tool makers microscope and its application
7. Angle and taper measurements by bevel protractor, sine bars, etc.
8. Use of spirit level in finding the flatness of surface plate.
9. Thread measurement by two wire/ three wire method or tool makers’ microscope.
10. Surface roughness measurement by TalySurf.
11. Surface wear resistances test using electro spark coating device.
REFERENCES
1. Workshop Technology by W.A.J. Chapman (Parts I, II, and III); Publisher: Viva Books.
2. The Principles of Metallographic Laboratory Practice by George L. Kehl; Publisher:
McGraw Hill.
159
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year II Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS03) ADVANCED ENGLISH COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT & AE)
Introduction
This course aims to offer students a practical approach to Technical Writing, and provide a
relevant, contemporary and authoritative introduction to the dynamic field of technical
communication that prepares them for Workplace Communication. Each unit in the syllabus is
devised so as to include a writing component as well as an oral component.
Course objectives
• Enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content to write business
letters, resume, SOP, Proposals and Technical Reports for academics as well as for
workplace
• Enable students to gear their writing to the target audience
• Groom students to speak accurately and fluently and prepare them for real world
activities through behavioral skills
• Train students in soft skills through role play and group discussion to improve their
EQ
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Summarize and synthesize information and produce technical writing that is
required in academics as well as in the engineering profession
• Write covering letters, resume, SOP, Project Proposals and Technical Reports
• Speak fluently and address a large group of audience and participate in debates and
discussions
• Negotiate terms, manage complex situations through interpersonal skills, persuade
people and make quick decisions
Methodology
Writing Component
A Process- Genre methodology will be used in teaching the technical genres. This method
would enable students to understand the use of particular lexico-grammatical patterns required
of in the context of technical writing. They would learn to use language to express the
particular communicative intent that is required of in the context of writing these genres.
160
R15
UNIT I
• Oral Communication :Talking About Yourself
• Applications and Covering letters
• Resume Writing
• Verbal Ability: Vocabulary ( Technical and Non-Technical) reading and listening
(analysis and reasoning)
UNIT II
• Oral Communication: Making Presentations
• Writing an SOP
• Summarizing and Synthesizing Information
UNIT III
• Oral Communication: Group Discussions
• Writing Abstracts
UNIT IV
• Oral Communication : Debate
• Writing Reports
UNIT V
• Soft Skills
REQUIRED TEXT AND MATERIALS
1. Ashraf Rizvi, M (2005). Effective Technical Communication, Tata Mc Graw Hill Publishing
Company Limited, New Delhi.
2. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical Communication: A
Reader-Centered Approach ( 5th ed.) (pp. 457-473). Boston: Heinle.
3. William S. Pfeiffer, (2012) Technical Communication: A Practical Approach (7th ed.)
Longman.
REFERENCES
1. Burnett, Rebecca. Technical Communication. 5th Ed., Heinle, 2001.
2. Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson: Technical Writing Process and Product. 3rd
edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999.
3. Markel, Mike. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies (8th EDITION (2006-
2007).
4. R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan, Business Correspondence and Report Writing, Third
Edition, TMH, 2002. (Indian Edition).
5. M. Raman and S. Sharma, Technical Communication: Principles and Practices, OUP,
2004. (Indian Edition).
161
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year II Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5AE52) AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING LABORATORY
Course Prerequisites: Automotive Engine operation and Working of Engine systems
Course Objectives
• Study of automotive systems and subsystems
• Demonstrate the assemble and dismantle of engine and other subsystems
• Know the principle and functionality of automotive subsystems
• Inspection and measurement of different parameters
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Explain about automotive systems and subsystems
• Assemble and dismantle petrol and diesel engine and other subsystems
• Discuss the principle and functionality of automotive subsystems
• Identify the faults and measurement of different parameters
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS (Any ten experiments)
1. Valve spring testing and connecting rod alignment.
2. Dismantling, inspection and assembling of multi-cylinder petrol engine.
3. Dismantling inspection and study of multi-cylinder diesel engine.
4. Study, dismantling and assembling of clutch
5. Study, dismantling and assembly of differential unit
6. Study, dismantling and assembly of brake system
7. Study, dismantling and assembly of suspension system
8. Dismantling, inspecting and assembling of sliding mesh gear box and finding out the
gear ratios.
9. Dismantling, inspecting and assembling of constant mesh gear box and finding out
the gear ratios.
10. Dismantling, inspecting and assembling of synchromesh gear box and finding out the
gear ratios.
11. Dismantling, inspection and assembling of steering gear box and finding out the gear
ratios.
12. Study, dismantling and assembling of front and rear axle.
162
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5AE10) ELECTRIC AND HYBRID VEHICLES
Course Prerequisites: Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering.
Course Objectives
• Study the concepts and drivetrain configurations of electric drive vehicles
• Provide different electric propulsion systems and energy storage devices
• Explain the technology, design methodologies and control strategy of electric drive
vehicles
• Emphasize on solar and fuel cell applications in automobiles
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the concepts and drivetrain configurations of electric drive vehicles
• Present different electric propulsion systems and energy storage devices
• Discuss the technology, design methodologies and control strategy of electric drive
vehicles
• Appreciate the solar and fuel cell applications in automobiles
UNIT I
Electric Vehicles: Layout of an electric vehicle, performance of electric vehicles, traction
motor characteristics, tractive effort, transmission requirements, vehicle performance, energy
consumption, advantage and limitations, specifications, system components and electronic
control system.
(8)
UNIT II
Hybrid Vehicles: Concepts of hybrid electric drive train, types, architecture of series and
parallel hybrid electric drive train, merits and demerits, series and parallel hybrid electric drive
train design.
UNIT III
Electric Propulsion Systems: DC motor drives, Induction motor drives, permanent magnet
brushless DC motor drives and switched reluctance motor drives.
UNIT IV
Motor Controllers and Control Systems: Control system principles, speed and torque
control – DC motors and AC motors.
163
R15
UNIT V
Energy Storages: Electromechanical batteries - Types of batteries, lead acid batteries, nickel
based batteries, lithium based batteries, electrochemical reactions, thermodynamic voltage,
specific energy, specific power, energy efficiency and ultracapacitors.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Mehrdad Ehsani, Yimin Gao, sebastien E. Gay and Ali Emadi, “Modern Electric, Hybrid
Electric and Fuel Cell Vehicles: Fundamentals, Theory and Design”, CRS Press, 2004.
2. James Larminie and John Loury, “Electric Vehicle Technology-Explained”, John Wiley &
Sons Ltd., 2003.
REFERENCES
1. Sandeep Dhameja, “Electric Vehicle Battery Systems”, Butterworth –Heinemann, 2002.
2. Ronald K Jurgen, “Electric and Hybrid – Electric Vehicles”, SAE, 2002.
3. Ron Hodkinson and John Fenton, “Light Weight Electric/Hybrid Vehicle Design”,
Butterworth-Heine.
164
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year I Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5AE11) INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING AND OPERATIONS RESEARCH
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Mathematics
Course Objectives
• Formulation and solution using linear programming
• Solve transportation, sequencing, replacement and queuing problems
• Understand the role and application of industrial engineering
• Explain the theory of games, replacement and inventory and their solution methodology
for solving problems
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Analyse linear programming models in practical and their practical use.
• Evaluate transportation, sequencing, replacement and queuing problems and their
solution methodology
• Appreciate the role and application of industrial engineering
• Apply theory of games, replacement and inventory models for solving problems
UNIT I
Introduction: Origin, development, definition, characteristics and phases, types of OR
models, applications and limitations.
Allocation: Linear programming problem formulation, graphical solution, simplex method,
artificial variables technique, two phase method, big-M method and duality principle.
UNIT II
Transportation Problem: Formulation-Optimal solution-unbalanced transportation problem-
Degeneracy. Assignment problem-Formulation-Optimal solution-Variations of Assignment
Problem-Travelling Salesman Problem.
Sequencing: Introduction, flow shop sequencing-n jobs through two machines-n jobs through
three machines-Job shop sequencing-two jobs through m machines.
UNIT III
Replacement: Introduction, replacement of items that deteriorate with time-when money value
is not counted and counted-Replacement of items that fail completely and group replacement.
165
R15
Theory of Games: Introduction, minimax (maximin), criterion and optimal strategy-Solution of
games with saddle points-Rectangular games without saddle points-principles of dominance-
m*2and 2*n games-graphical method.
UNIT IV
Waiting Lines: Introduction, single channel - poisson arrivals-exponential service times-with
infinite population and finite population models-Multichannel-Poisson arrivals-exponential
service times with infinite population single channel Poisson arrivals.
Inventory: Introduction, single item-Deterministic models-Purchase inventory models with one
price break and multiple price breaks-shortages not allowed-Stochastic models-demand may
be discrete variable or continuous variable-Instantaneous production, Instantaneous demand
and continuous demand and no set up cost-single period model.
UNIT V
Marketing: Functions of marketing, marketing mix, product life cycle, channels of distribution
and sales management. Manufacturing planning - MRP, MRP-II, JIT and CIM.
Work Study: Concept of productivity, method study - Basic steps in method study, process
charts, diagrams, models and templates, principles of motion economy, micro motion study,
therbligs and SIMO Chart. Work Measurement - Stop watch procedure of time study,
performance rating, allowances, work sampling and simple problems.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Operations Research by J.K.Sharma; Publisher: Mac Milan.
2. Operations Research by R. Pannerselvam; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
REFERENCES
1. Operations Research by A. M. Natarajan, P.Balasubramani, A.Tamilarasi; Publisher:
Pearson Education.
2. Introduction to OR by Taha; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
3. Operations Research by Wagner; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
4. Operations Research by S.D.Sharma-Kedarnath.
5. Introduction to O.R by Hiller and Liebermann; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
6. Industrial Engineering Management, by Dr. O. P .Khanna.
166
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5ME16) CAD/CAM
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Graphics, Engineering Design and Production
Technology
Course Objectives
• Understand the mathematics behind the transformations and projections in design
of products on CAD devices
• Know the various types of modeling and drafting
• Learn the fundamentals of part programming required for manufacturing a product
• Appreciate the integration of design and manufacturing functions through CAD and
CAM
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Select the types of computer devices and solve the problems on transformations
and use them in CAD software
• Compare the different types of models and perform drafting
• Prepare part programs involving various operations for the manufacturing of simple
and complex products
• Integrate the knowledge learnt in CAD and CAM
UNIT I
Introduction: Computers in Industrial Manufacturing, Product cycle, CAD and CAM, Overview
of CAD / CAM Hardware, Display devices, Hard copy devices.
Computer Graphics: Raster scan graphics, Coordinate systems, Database structure for
graphics modeling, Transformation of geometry, 3D Transformations, Mathematics of
projections, Clipping, Hidden surface removal.
UNIT II
Geometric Modeling: Geometric models, Geometric construction methods, Curve
representation, Surface representation methods, Modeling facilities desired, Solid modeling.
Drafting Systems: Basic geometric commands, Layers, Display control commands, Editing,
Dimensioning.
167
R15
UNIT III
Computer Numerical Control: Introduction to NC machines and CNC machines, Structure of
CNC machine tools, Features of Machining center, Concept of ATC & APC, Feedback control.
CNC Part Programming: Fundamentals, Introduction to G & M codes, Manual part
programming methods, Computer Aided Part Programming.
UNIT IV
Group Technology: Philosophy of Group Technology, Part families, Methods of Parts
Classification and Coding, Advantages and Limitations.
Computer Aided Processes Planning: Introduction, Retrieval type and Generative type,
Benefits.
UNIT V
Computer Aided Quality Control: Introduction, Terminology in quality control, The computer
in QC, Contact inspection methods, Noncontact inspection methods-optical and nanoptical,
Computer aided testing, Integration of CAQC with CAD/CAM.
Computer Integrated Manufacturing Systems: Introduction, Types of Manufacturing
systems, Machine tools and related equipment, Material handling systems, Computer Control
Systems, Human labor in the manufacturing systems, CIMS benefits.
TEXT BOOKS
1. CAD / CAM by A. Zimmers and P. Groover; Publisher: Prentice Hall International/Pearson
Education.
2. CAD/CAM Principles and Applications by P N Rao; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES
1. CAD / CAM Theory and Practice by Ibrahim Zeid; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Automation, Production Systems and Computer integrated Manufacturing by Groover;
Publisher: Pearson Education.
3. CAD / CAM / CIM by Radhakrishnan and Subramanian; Publisher: Pearson Education.
4. Principles of Computer Aided Design and Manufacturing by Farid Amirouche; Publisher:
Pearson Education.
5. CAD/CAM: Concepts and Applications by Alavala; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
168
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year I Semester L T/P/D C
Elective I 3 0 3
(5AE73) VEHICLE BODY ENGINEERING AND SAFETY
Course Prerequisites: Metallurgy and Material science, Automotive Chassis, Engineering
Design and Theory of Machines
Course Objectives
• Review of materials for automotive structures and body panels
• Understanding of aesthtics and ergonomics for automobiles
• Provide classification of vehicle bodies, construction and safety aspects
• Identification of noise, vibration and harshness sources, control and measuring
techniques
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Choose the materials for automotive structures and body panels
• Apply aesthetics and ergonomic considerations for automobiles
• Categorize vehicle bodies, construction details and safety measures
• Use noise, vibration and harshness control and measuring techniques
UNIT I
Structural Materials: Aluminium alloy sheet, extrusion and casting, austenitic and ferritic
stainless steels, alloy steels, different types of composites, FRP and metal matrix composites.
Structural timbers, properties designing in GRP and high strength composites different
manufacturing techniques of composites. Thermo plastics, ABS and styrenes. Load bearing
plastics, semi-rigid PUR foams and sandwich panel construction.
UNIT II
Shaping and Packaging: Product design and concepts, aesthetics and industrial design,
formal aesthetics and shape. Computer aided drafting, surface development and interior
ergonomics. Ergonomics system design, dashboard instruments and mechanical package
layout.
Car Body: Types - Saloon, convertibles, limousine, estate van, racing and sports car. Visibility
regulations, driver’s visibility, improvement in visibility and tests for visibility. Driver seat
design, car body construction, various panels in car bodies and safety aspects of car body.
169
R15
UNIT III
Bus Body: Types of bus body based on capacity, distance travelled and based on
construction, body lay-out for various types, types of metal sections used, regulations.
Constructional details - Conventional and integral, driver seat design and safety aspects of bus
body.
Commercial vehicles: Types commercial vehicle bodies, light commercial vehicle body.
Construction details of commercial vehicle body - Flat platform body, Trailer, Tipper body and
Tanker body.
.
UNIT IV
Crashworthiness: Goals and requirements, injury mechanisms - Neck, head, thoracic,
abdomen, knee and ankle. Impact analysis - Front end collisions, rear end collisions and roll
over protection.
Anthropomorphic Test Devices: Hybrid dummies II, hybrid dummies III, CRABI Infant
dummies and side impact dummies.
UNIT V
Noise, Vibration and Harshness: Basics, sources of noise and vibration - Road surface,
wheel, engine, transmission, brakes, and aerodynamics. Assessment and control of interior
and exterior noise, sensitivity to noise, Basic noise and vibration measurement techniques,
squeak, rattle and tizz noise.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Sydney F Page, “Body Engineering”, .
2. Powloski, J., "Vehicle Body Engineering", Business Books Ltd., 1998.
3. Matthew Harrison, “Vehicle Refinement Controlling Noise and Vibration in Road
Vehicles”, SAE International, SAE ISBN 0 7680 15057.
REFERENCES
1. Heldt, P.M., “Automotive Chassis”, chilton and Co.
2. Handbook on Vehicle Body Design, SAE Publications.
3. Ulrich Seiffert and Lothar Wech, “Automotive Safety Handbook”, SAE International, SAE
ISBN 978-0-7680-1798-4.
4. Lorenzo Morello., “The Automotive Body Volume II: System Design”, Springer.
5. Paul Du Bois et al, “Vehicle Crashworthiness and Occupant Protection”, American Iron
and Steel Institute, 2004.
170
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year I Semester L T/P/D C
Elective I 3 0 3
(5AE74) FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY
Course Prerequisites: Physics, Chemistry, Heat and Mass Transfer
Course Objectives
• Study the concepts, principle and working of fuel cell
• Present the components and automotive applications of fuel cell
• Explain the fueling techniques for fuel cell
• Provide the performance and analysis of fuel cell
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the concepts, principle and working of fuel cell
• Describe the components and automotive applications of fuel cell
• Assess the fueling techniques for fuel cell
• Analyze the performance of fuel cell
UNIT I
Introduction to Fuel Cells: Introduction, working and types of fuel cell, low, medium and high
temperature fuel cell, liquid and methanol types, proton exchange membrane fuel cell solid
oxide, hydrogen fuel cells, thermodynamics and electrochemical kinetics of fuel cells.
UNIT II
Fuel Cells for Automotive Applications: Fuel cells for automotive applications, technology
advances in fuel cell vehicle systems, onboard hydrogen storage, liquid hydrogen and
compressed hydrogen, metal hydrides, fuel cell control system, alkaline fuel cell and road map
to market.
UNIT III
Fuel Cell Components and their Impact on Performance: Fuel cell performance
characteristics, current/voltage, voltage efficiency and power density, Ohmic resistance, kinetic
performance, mass transfer effects, membrane electrode assembly components, fuel cell
stack, bi-polar plate, humidifiers and cooling plates.
171
R15
UNIT IV
Fueling: Hydrogen storage technology – pressure cylinders, liquid hydrogen and metal
hydrides, methods of hydrogen production, carbon fibers, reformer technology – steam
reforming, partial oxidation, auto thermal reforming, CO removal and fuel cell technology
based on removal like bio-mass.
UNIT V
Fuel Cycle Analysis: Introduction to fuel cycle analysis, application to fuel cell and other
competing technologies like battery powered vehicles. SI engine fueled by natural gas and
hydrogen and hybrid electric vehicle.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Viswanathan B. and Scibioh Aulice M, “Fuel Cells: Principles and Applications”, University
Press, 2006.
2. Fuel Cells for automotive applications – professional engineering publishing UK. 2004.
REFERENCES
1. Frano Barbir, “PEM Fuel Cells: Theory and Practice”, Elsevier Academic Press, USA,
2005.
2. Mehrdad Ehsani, Yimin Gao, Sebastien E. Gay and Ali Emadi, “Modern Electric, Hybrid
Electric and Fuel Cell Vehicles: Fundamentals, Theory and Design”, CRS Press, 2004.
3. Fuel Cell Technology Handbook SAE International Gregor Hoogers CRC Press, 2003.
172
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year I Semester L T/P/D C
Elective I 3 0 3
(5ME74) AUTOMATION AND ROBOTICS
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Production technology, control power systems, mathematics,
kinematics of machinery
Course Objectives
• Analyze the concepts of automation and robotics and components, end effectors of
robots
• Evaluate the motion analysis, kinematics, dynamics and types of robot motions
• Study the different actuators and sensors used to control the robots
• Analyze the basics of robot programming, its languages and the industrial applications of
robots
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Evaluate the positions, angles of the manipulators given the required motion analysis,
kinematics, dynamics and trajectory planning concepts
• Analyze the different types of feedback components and sensors used in robots
• Create and analyse the program for a robot using the programming languages
• Analyze the applications of robots in manufacturing by studying different work cells of the
robots
UNIT I
Introduction: Basic principles of automation, Hard Automation, Flexible Automation, basic
elements of automated system, levels of automation. Automation & Robotics, An overview of
Robotics, Classification by Coordinate Systems and control systems. Components of the
Industrial Robotics: Degrees of freedom, End effectors – Mechanical gripper, Magnetic,
Vacuum cup and other types of grippers, General consideration on gripper selection and
design.
Motion Analysis: Basic rotation matrices, Composite rotation matrices, Euler angles,
Equivalent angle and axis, Homogeneous transformation, Problems.
UNIT II
Kinematics and Dynamics: Manipulator Kinematics: D-H notations, Joint coordinates and
world coordinates, Forward and Inverse kinematics, Problems.
173
R15
Differential Kinematics: Differential kinematics of planar and spherical manipulators,
Jacobians, Problems.
Robot Dynamics: Lagrange-Euler formulations, Newton-Euler formulations, Problems on
planar two link manipulators.
UNIT III
Trajectory Planning: Joint space scheme, Cubic polynomial fit, Avoidance of obstacles,
Types of motions: Slew motion, Joint interpolated motion, Straight line motion, Problems.
UNIT IV
Robot Actuators and Feedback Components: Actuators – Pneumatic, Hydraulic and
Electric actuators, DC Servo motors, Stepper motors.
Feedback components – Position sensors, Potentiometers, Resolvers and Encoders, Velocity
sensors, Tactile sensors.
UNIT V
Robot Programming and Languages: Lead through programming, Motion programming,
Motion interpolation, Robot programming language, interlock and sensor commands,
Simulation and Off-Line programming.
Robot Applications in Manufacturing: Material Handling and transfer, Welding, Assembly,
Inspection, Future applications
TEXT BOOKS
1. Industrial Robotics by M. P. Groover; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Introduction to Robotic Mechanics and Control by J. J. Craig, Publisher: Pearson
Education.
REFERENCES
1. Robot Dynamics and Control by M.W.Sponge and M.Vidyasagar; Publisher: John Wiley.
2. Robotics by K.S.Fu; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
3. Robotic Engineering by Richard Klafter, Publisher: Prentice Hall.
4. Robot Analysis and Intelligence by Asada & Slotine, Publisher: Wiley Interscience.
5. Robotics & Control by Mittal R. K. & Nagrath I. J., Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
6. Modeling and control of robot manipulators by Sialliano & Sciallicco, Springer.
174
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year I Semester L T/P/D C
Elective I 3 0 3
(5ME76) QUALITY ENGINEERING IN MANUFACTURING
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Statistics, Statistical Quality Control.
Course Objectives
• Understand the types of factors and principles of Quality Loss Function
• Understand the robust design methodology in solving practical engineering problems
• Comprehend the various quality control tools
Course Outcomes
Students will be able to:
• Value the concept of quality, use quality tools and obtain the quality loss
• Utilize the analytical techniques to find out the variation in the data and obtain optimal
results
• Select and use the proper orthogonal arrays in designing, conducting and analyzing the
experiments
• Formulate parameter and tolerance design strategies
UNIT I
Quality Value and Engineering: An overall quality system, Quality engineering in product design,
Quality engineering in design of production processes, Quality engineering in production.
Loss Function and Quality Level: Derivation and use of Quality Loss Function (QLF), Economic
consequences of tightening tolerances as a means to improve quality, Evaluations and types
tolerances - N-type, S-type and L-type.
UNIT II
Analysis of Variance (ANOVA): NO - way ANOVA, One-way ANOVA, Two-way ANOVA, Critique
of F-test, ANOVA for four level factors, multiple level factors.
UNIT III
Orthogonal Arrays: Introduction to OA, Degrees of Freedom, Structure of OA, Linear Graphs &
Interaction tables, Strategies in Experimentation - Typical test strategies, Better test strategies &
Efficient test strategies, Steps in designing, conducting and analyzing an experiment.
Interpolation of Experimental Results: Interpretation methods, Percent contribution, Estimating
the mean.
175
R15
UNIT IV
Tolerance Design and Tolerancing: Functional limits, Tolerance design for N-type, L-type and S-
type characteristics, Tolerance allocation for multiple components.
Parameter and Tolerance Design: Introduction to parameter design, Signal to noise ratios,
Parameter design strategy, some of the case studies on parameter and tolerance designs.
UNIT V
Quality Tools: ISO-9000 Quality System, Business Process Re-engineering (BPRE), Six-sigma,
Bench making, Quality circles, Brain Storming, Fishbone diagram.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Taguchi Techniques for Quality Engineering /Phillip J. Ross/ McGraw Hill, Intl. II Edition,
1995.
2. Quality Engineering in Production systems / G. Taguchi, A- Elsayed et al / McGraw Hill
Intl. Edition, 1989.
REFERENCES
1. Quality Engineering using Robust Design / Madhav S. Phadke / Pearson Education.
2. Total Quality Management / Poornima M. Charantimath / Pearson Education.
3. Taguchi Methods explained: Practical steps to Robust Resign / Tapan P. Bagchi /Prentice
Hall Ind Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi.
176
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year I Semester L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 0 3
(5AE81) FINITE ELEMENT ANALYSIS
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Mechanics of Solids and Heat Transfer
Course Objectives
• Introduce different concepts of numerical methods
• Summarise the boundary conditions, formulations and other functional approaches of
FEA
• Explain real life applications in dynamic analysis
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Identify various approaches applied to FEA
• Analyse the given problem for finding solution using finite element technique
• Apply the concept of FEA to solve different field problems
UNIT I
Introduction: Historical background; Stresses and equilibrium; Boundary conditions; Strain-
displacement relations; Stress-strain relations and Temperature effects.
One-Dimensional Problems: Introduction; Finite element modeling; Co-ordinates and shape
functions; The potential energy approach; Rayleigh-Ritz method; Galerkin’s method, The
Galerkin approach; Assembly of the global stiffness matrix (K) and load vector; Properties of
K; The finite element equations; Treatment of boundary conditions; Quadratic shape functions;
Temperature effects.
UNIT II
Trusses: Introduction; Plane trusses; Three-dimensional trusses; Assembly of global stiffness
matrix..
Two-Dimensional Problems using Constant Strain Triangles: Introduction; Finite element
modeling; Constant strain triangle (CST); Problem modeling and boundary conditions.
UNIT III
Two-Dimensional Isoparametric Elements and Numerical Integration: Introduction; The
four-node quadrilateral; Numerical integration.
177
R15
Dynamic Analysis: Introduction; Vibration problems; Equations of motion based on weak
form; Longitudinal vibrations of bars; consistent mass matrices; element equations; solution of
Eigen value problems.
UNIT IV
Axisymmetric Solids Subjected to Axisymmetric Loading: Introduction; Axisymmetric
formulation; Finite element modeling - triangular element; Problem modeling and boundary
conditions.
Steady State Heat Transfer Analysis: One dimensional analysis of Slab, fin and two
dimensional analysis of thin plate.
UNIT V
Beams: Introduction; Finite element formulation; Hermite shape function, Load vector;
Boundary considerations; Shear force and bending moment; Beams on elastic supports.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Tirupathi R. Chandrupatla and Ashok D. Belegundu, Introduction to Finite Elements in
Engineering, 4th edition, Pearson, 2011.
2. Reddy J. N., An Introduction to Finite Element Methods, McGraw Hill Education, 3rd
edition, 2005.
REFERENCES
1. Rao, S. S., Finite Element Method in Engineering, 5th edition, Butterworth-Heinemann,
2010.
2. Bathe, K.J., Finite Element Procedures, Prentice-Hall, 1996.
3. Zienkiewicz O. C., The Finite Element Method, 3rd edition, McGraw-Hill, 1977.
178
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year I Semester L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 0 3
(5AE75) AUTOMOTIVE INFOTRONICS
Course Prerequisites: Automotive Chassis and Automobile Electrical and Electronics
Coarse Objectives
• Understand the interdisciplinary concepts and intelligent automotive systems
• Provide an overview of the components and solutions which are available for use in
GPS-enabled applications
• Know the adaptive cruise control systems and comfort systems
• Identify the safety and security systems
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Discuss the need of implementing intelligent vehicle technologies
• Address the key technologies that behind the communication systems
• Describe the basic concepts of control systems
• Present the constructional features of various growing technologies like adaptive cruise
control systems, safety systems, security systems and comfort systems
UNIT I
Introduction: Driver information, driver perception, driver convenience, driver monitoring,
general vehicle control, longitudinal and lateral control, collision avoidance, vehicle monitoring.
UNIT II
Telematics: Global positioning system, geographical information systems, navigation system,
architecture, automotive vision system, road recognition.
UNIT III
Safety Systems: Active and passive safety, airbags, seat belt tightening system, forward
collision warning systems, child lock, anti lock braking systems, traction control system, lane
departure warning system.
UNIT IV
Comfort Systems: Adaptive cruise control system, active suspension system, power steering,
collapsible and tiltable steering column, power windows.
179
R15
UNIT V
Security Systems: Anti theft technologies – mechanical, electromechanical and electronic
immobilizers, alarm system, stolen vehicle tracking system, remote keyless entry, smart card
system, number plate coding.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Ljubo Vlacic, Michel Parent and Fumio Harashima, “Intelligent Vehicle Technologies:
Theory and Applications”, Butterworth-Heinemann publications, Oxford, 2001.
2. Ronald K Jurgen, “Navigation and Intelligent Transportation Systems – Progress in
Technology”, Automotive Electronics Series, SAE, USA, 1998.
REFERENCES
1. William B Riddens, “Understanding Automotive Electronics”, 5th edition, Butter worth
Heinemann Woburn,1998.
2. Bechhold, “Understanding Automotive Electronics”, SAE, 1998.
3. Robert Bosch, “Automotive Hand Book”, 5th Edition, SAE, 2000.
180
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year I Semester L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 0 3
(5ME77) COMPUTATIONAL FLUID DYNAMICS
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisite: C Programming skills, Numerical Methods, Fluid Mechanics.
Course Objectives
• Familiar with the differential equations for flow phenomena and numerical methods for
their solution
• Understand different methods involved in solving problem numerically
• Formulate different kinds of physical problems with the different schemes and boundary
conditions
• Develop a code in a programming language to numerically solve a practical problem
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Solve fluid flow and heat transfer problems using numerical methods and Programming
• critically analyze different mathematical models and computational methods for flow
simulations
• Write algorithms to solve the complex non linear equations numerically and able to do a
project demonstrating your understanding
• Conduct the stability analysis and check the applicability of different schemes
UNIT I
Elementary Details in Numerical Techniques: Number system and errors, representation of
integers, fractions, floating point arithmetic, loss of significance and error propagation,
condition for instability, computational methods for error estimation, convergence of
sequences.
Applied Numerical Methods: Solution of a system of simultaneous Linear Algebraic
Equations, iterative schemes of Matrix Inversion, Direct Methods for Matrix inversion, Direct
Methods for banded matrices.
UNIT II
Finite Difference Applications in Heat Conduction and Convection: Heat conduction,
steady heat conduction in a rectangular geometry, transient heat conduction, finite difference
application in convective heat transfer, closure.
181
R15
Finite Differences, discretization, consistency, stability, and Fundamentals of fluid flow
modeling: Introduction, elementary finite difference quotients, implementation aspects of finite-
difference equations, consistency, explicit and implicit methods.
UNIT III
Introduction to First Order Wave Equation: Stability of hyperbolic and elliptic equations,
fundamentals of fluid flow modeling, conservative property, the upwind scheme.
UNIT IV
Review of Equations Governing Fluid Flow and Heat Transfer: Introduction, conservation
of mass, Newton’s second law of motion, expanded forms of Navier-stokes equations,
conservation of energy principle, special forms of the Navier-stokes equations.
UNIT V
Finite Volume Method: Approximation of surface integrals, volume integrals, interpolation
and differentiation practices, upwind interpolation, linear interpolation and quadratic
interpolation.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Numerical heat transfer and fluid flow / Suhas V. Patankar/Hemashava Publishers
Corporation &McGraw Hill.
2. Computational Fluid Flow and Heat Transfer/ Muralidaran/Narosa Publications.
REFERENCES
1. Computational Fluid Dynamics: Basics with applications/John D. Anderson/ McGraw Hill.
2. Fundamentals of Computational Fluid Dynamics/Tapan K. Sengupta / Universities Press.
3. Introduction to Theoretical and Computational Fluid Dynamics/C. Pozrikidis/Oxford
University Press/2nd Edition.
182
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year II Semester L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 0 3
(5ME80) PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE MANAGEMENT
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisite: Mathematics, computers and use of software’s packages
Course Objectives
• Understand PLM Strategies
• Know the principles of product life cycle
• Understand business process
• Understand importance of forecasting
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Forecast the demand of the product
• Develop a new product strategy
• Predict the life cycle of product
• Interpret the life cycle process of individual items
UNIT I
Introduction to PLM: Need for PLM, opportunities and benefits of PLM, different views of
PLM, components of PLM, phases of PLM, PLM feasibility study, PLM visioning.
PLM Strategies: Industrial strategies, strategy elements, its identification, selection and
implementation, change management for PLM.
UNIT II
Product Data Management (PDM): PDM systems and importance, reason for implementing a
PDM system, financial justification of PDM, barriers to PDM implementation.
Product Design: Engineering design, organization and decomposition in product design,
product design process, methodical evolution in product design, concurrent engineering,
design for 'X' and design central development model. Strategies for recovery at end of life,
recycling, human factors in product design. Modeling and simulation in product design.
183
R15
UNIT III
New Product Development: Structuring new product development, building decision support
system, Estimating market opportunities for new product, new product financial control,
implementing new product development, market entry decision, launching and tracking new
product program, Concept of redesign of product.
UNIT IV
Technology Forecasting: Future mapping, invocating rates of technological change,
methods of technology forecasting such as relevance trees, morphological methods and
mission flow diagram, combining forecast of different technologies, uses in manufacture
alternative.
UNIT V
Product Conception Process: Business processes, data-process relationship, from the idea
to waste disposal Product structures: Variant management, product configuration, material
master data, product description data, Data models, Life cycles of individual items, status of
items.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Fabio Giudice, Guido La Rosa, Product Design for the environment-A life cycle approach,
Taylor and Francis 2006.
2. Robert J. Thomas, NPD: Managing and forecasting for strategic processes.
REFERENCES
1. John Stark, Springer-Verlag, ”Product Lifecycle Management Paradigm for 21st century
Product Realization”, London, 3rd printing (2006). 441 pp., ISBN: 1-85233-810-5.
2. Product Lifecycle Management, Michael Grieves, Tata McGraw Hill.
3. Martins Joseph, Technological Forecasting for decision Making, 2nd edition, North
Holland.
184
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year I Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5AE53) VEHICLE MAINTENANCE AND TESTING LABORATORY
Course Prerequisites: Automotive Engines and Systems, Automotive Chassis and
Automotive Electrical and Electronics
Course Objectives
• Hands on training in in automotive shops with safety procedures
• Vehicle inspection and identification of faults
• Diagnosis using suitable test equipments and use of service manuals
• Adjust / repair / replacement of parts
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Identify different systems of a vehicle and their functionality
• Inspect the vehicle and identify the faults
• Perform fault diagnosis and detection using suitable test equipment
• Execute maintenance and repair/replacement operations
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
1. Vehicle inspection
2. Engine compression test
3. Engine manifold vacuum test
4. Automotive battery test
5. Multi car scanning
6. Petrol vehicle exhaust analysis
7. Diesel smoke measurement
8. Wheel balancing of wheel and tyre assembly
9. Wheel alignment test
10. Headlight alignment test
11. Ignition timing test
185
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year I Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5ME62) CAD/CAM LABORATORY
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: CAD, CAM and SOM
Course Objectives
• Understand the ways in which 2D sketches and 3D models – solid and surface are
made using appropriate CAD packages
• Know the procedure of building assembly drawings and obtain drafted views from it
• Learn the part programming techniques in turning, milling and drilling operations
• Understand the determination of stresses and strains in systems like trusses and beams
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Summarize the skills learnt in sketching and modeling using CAD packages
• Design product assemblies and obtain drafted views from it
• Produce components with different features using CNC machines and machining
centers
• Analyze the stress and strain in various structures
12 exercises from the following syllabus
CAD
1. 2D Drawing using Sketcher workbench – 1 exercise containing at least 3 drawings
2. 3D modeling using 3D features – 1 exercise containing at least 3 models
3. Assembly and drafting – 1 exercise containing 1 assembly
4. Surface Modeling – 1 exercise
5. Sheet Metal Working – 1 exercise
Softwares: AutoCAD, IronCAD, CATIA, CREO
CAM
1. Part programming for Turning, Facing, Chamfering, Grooving, Step turning, Taper turning
operations
2. Part programming for Point to point motions, Linear motions, Circular interpolation,
Contour motion, Pocket milling - Circular, Rectangular and Mirror commands
3. Part Programming using Fixed or Canned Cycles for Drilling, Peck drilling, Boring,
Tapping, Turning, Facing, Taper turning, Thread cutting
186
R15
4. Generation of tool path, NC part program and its simulation
5. Machining of small components using CNC Lathe, CNC Mill and CNC Turning center
Softwares: CNC Offline Simulation, EdgeCAM
CAE
1. Determination of deflection and stresses in 2D and 3D trusses and beams
2. Determination Principal/ Von-mises stresses and deflections, in plane stress/ plane strain/
axisymmetric models
3. Determination of stresses in 3D and shell structures
Software: ANSYS
187
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year I Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5AE54) VEHICLE DYNAMICS AND AUTOTRONICS LABORATORY
Course Prerequisites: Theory of Machines, Vehicle Dynamics and Automotive Electrical and
Electronics
Course Objectives
• Understand the whirling of shaft and the effect of natural frequency of undamped and
damped free vibration system
• Understand the static and dynamic balancing and the gyroscopic effects
• Concepts and develop basic skills necessary to diagnose automotive electrical systems
• Testing of automotive batteries, starting, and charging systems
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Calculate the natural frequency of Undamped and damped free vibration system
• Balance the static and dynamic forces and the gyroscopic effects
• Troubleshoot different electrical faults in a vehicle
• Test automotive batteries, starting, and charging systems
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS (Any ten experiments)
VEHICLE DYNAMICS
1. To determine whirling speed of shaft theoretically and experimentally.
2. To determine the natural frequency of undamped torsional vibration of a single rotor
shaft system.
3. To determine the natural frequency of undamped torsional vibration of two rotor shaft
system.
4. To analyse the motion of a motorized gyroscope when the couple is applied along its
spin axis.
5. To determine the frequency of undamped free vibration of an equivalent spring mass
system.
6. To determine the frequency of damped force vibration of a spring mass system.
7. To study the static and dynamic balancing using rigid blocks.
8. To determine gyroscopic couple on motorized gyroscope.
9. To study gyroscopic effects through models.
188
R15
AUTOTRONICS
1. Testing of batteries and battery maintenance
2. Testing of starting motors and generators
3. Testing of alternators
4. Testing of regulators and cut – outs
5. Diagnosis of ignition system faults
6. Study of Automobile electrical wiring
7. Interfacing Sensors like RTD, LVDT, and Load Cell etc.
8. Interfacing ADC for Data Acquisition
9. Interfacing DAC for Control Application
10. Interfacing A/D converter and simple data acquisition
189
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5AE12) REFRIGERATION AND AUTO AIR CONDITIONING
Course Prerequisites: Thermodynamics and Applied Thermodynamics
Course Objectives
• Understand various refrigeration cycles and working of conventional and
unconventional refrigeration systems
• Estimate vehicle cooling load
• Explain heating ventilation and air conditioning systems and components
• Diagnose and Troubleshooting of air conditioners and heating systems
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply refrigeration cycles in conventional and unconventional refrigeration systems
• Evaluate vehicle cooling loads and capacity of refrigeration and air conditioning
systems
• Describe heating ventilation and air conditioning systems and components
• Examine and servicing of air conditioners and heating systems
UNIT I
Vapour Compression Refrigeration: Working principle, refrigeration cycle in T-s and P-h
coordinates, effect of sub cooling and super heating and cycle analysis.
Air Refrigeration: Applications, air craft refrigeration - simple, bootstrap, regenerative
systems, vehicle cooling, load estimation, capacity requirements of air conditioning system,
refrigerants used in automobiles and properties.
UNIT II
Vapor Absorption System: Aqua-Ammonia system and Lithium-Bromide system.
Steam Jet Refrigeration System: Representation on T-s and h-s diagrams, limitations and
applications.
Unconventional Refrigeration System: Thermo-electric, vortex tube and pulse tube –
working principles.
190
R15
UNIT III
Introduction to Air Conditioning: Psychrometric properties and processes, sensible and
latent heat loads, characterization and SHF load for ventilation and filtration, concepts of
RSHF and SHF ESHF and ADP, concepts of human comfort and effective temperature.
Components of Air Conditioners: Air-conditioning components: Compressor, evaporator,
condenser, expansion valve, receiver, drier, filters, mufflers, special features and compressor
protection anti freezing relay.
UNIT IV
Operation of an Air-Conditioning System: Type of air conditioners, heaters, vehicle
ventilation, combination heater and air conditioner, manually controlled air conditioner and
heater system, automatically controlled air conditioner and heater systems.
Air Heating Equipment: Ducts, registers and grills, blowers and filters.
UNIT V
Trouble Shooting and Services: Servicing of heating systems, causes of air conditioner
failure, leak testing guide, discharging the system, evacuating the system, charging the system
and troubleshooting air conditioner heater Systems
Servicing of Air Conditioners- Heating Systems: Air conditioner maintenance and service,
compressor trouble shooting and service, clutch service, shaft seal leakage compressor, seal
removal checking oil level, oil addition and repairs on compressors.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Refrigeration & Air Conditioning – C.P. Aurora-TMH.
2. Automotive Air Conditioning –William .H.Crouse & Donald L.Angtin.-MH.
REFERENCES
1. Refrigeration & Air Conditioning – Aurora & Domkundwar – Dhanpat Rai
2. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning: Manohar Prasad.
3. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning: Stoecker – Mc Graw Hill.
4. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning: Dossat – Mc Graw Hill.
5. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning: Domkundwar – Dhanpatrai.
191
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year II Semester L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 0 3
(5AE76) ALTERNATIVE FUELS AND TECHNOLOGIES
Course Prerequisites: Engineering chemistry, Automotive Engines and Systems
Course Objectives
• Identify various sources of alternative fuels for SI and CI engines
• Know the benefits and engine modifications required for using alternative fuels
• Provide the quality standards, regulations and third-party inspection for alternative
fuel vehicles
• Describe the electric, hybrid, fuel cell and solar vehicle technologies
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Select alternative fuels for using on SI and CI engines
• Explain the benefits and engine modifications required for using alternative fuels
• Recognise quality standards, regulations and third-party inspection for alternative
fuel vehicles
• Discuss the electric, hybrid, fuel cell and solar vehicle technologies
UNIT I
Gaseous Fuels: Properties, composition, production, storage, engine modifications,
combustion, performance and emission characteristics in SI and CI engines, advantages and
disadvantages of CNG, LPG, hydrogen and ammonia.
UNIT II
Alcohol Fuels: Properties, composition, production, storage, engine modifications, blends,
combustion, performance and emission characteristics in SI and CI engines, advantages and
disadvantages of methanol ethanol and butanol.
UNIT III
Bio-Fuels: Properties, composition, production, engine modifications, treatment, blends,
performance and emission characteristics, advantages and disadvantages of straight
vegetable oils, bio-diesel and biogas.
192
R15
UNIT IV
Electric and Hybrid Vehicles: Electric vehicles - Layout of an electric vehicle, components,
performance of electric vehicles, advantage and limitations. Hybrid vehicles - Concepts of
hybrid electric drive train, types, architecture of series and parallel and series-parallel hybrid
electric drive train, merits and demerits.
UNIT V
Fuel Cell and Solar Vehicles: Fuel cell vehicle – Operating principle, types of fuel cells, fuel
cell options for fuel cell vehicle and fuel cell hybrid vehicle. Solar vehicle - Solar photovoltaic
cell, solar array, solar car electrical system and drive train.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Thipse S. S., “Alternative fuels”, Jaico Publishers, 2010.
2. Mehrdad Ehsani, Yimin Gao, sebastien E. Gay and Ali Emadi, “Modern Electric, Hybrid
Electric and Fuel Cell Vehicles: Fundamentals, Theory and Design”, CRC Press, 2005.
REFERENCES
1. Ramireddy and Yousuf, “A text book of alternative fuel of Automobile Engine”, Front line
Publishers.
2. Forest Gregg, “Powering Your Vehicle With Straight Vegetable Oil”.
3. Iqbal Husain, “Electric and Hybrid Vehicles: Design Fundamentals, CRC Press, 2003.
4. Ronald K Jurgen, “Electric and Hybrid – Electric Vehicles”, SAE, 2002.
193
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year II Semester L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 0 3
(5AE77) FLUID POWER SYSTEMS
Course Prerequisites: Fluid Mechanics, Thermodynamics, Engineering Mechanics,
Mathematics
Course Objectives
• Understand about the hydraulic control system components
• Understand about the pneumatic control system components
• Understand about the design of fluid power circuits
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply fundamental knowledge of hydraulic systems in automation
• Apply fundamental knowledge of pneumatic systems in automation
• Apply fundamental knowledge to fluid power circuits designing in automation
UNIT I
Hydraulic Power Systems: Introduction, Classification of Power Systems - Mechanical
Power Systems, Electrical Power Systems, Pneumatic Power Systems, Hydrodynamic Power
Systems, Hydrostatic Power Systems, Basic Hydraulic Power Systems, The Advantages and
Disadvantages of Hydraulic Systems, Comparing Power Systems.
Basic Properties of Hydraulic Oils, Classification of Hydraulic Fluids, Typically Used Hydraulic
Fluids, Mineral Oils, Fire-Resistant Fluids, Additives, Requirements Imposed on the Hydraulic
Liquid
UNIT II
Hydraulic Pumps: Introduction, Classification of Pumps – Bent Axis Axial Piston Pumps,
Swash Plate Pumps with Axial Pistons, Swash Plate Pumps with Inclined Pistons, Axial Piston
Pumps with Rotating Swash Plate-Wobble Plate, Radial Piston Pumps with Eccentric Cam
Ring, Radial Piston Pumps with Eccentric Shafts, Radial Piston Pumps of Crank Type,
External Gear Pumps, Internal Gear Pumps, Gerotor Pumps, Screw Pumps, Vane Pumps,
Variable Displacement Pumps, Rotodynamic Pumps
UNIT III
Hydraulic Control Valves: Introduction, Pressure-Control Valves, Direct-Operated Relief
Valves, Pilot-Operated Relief Valves, Pressure-Reducing Valves, Sequence Valves,
194
R15
Accumulator Charging Valve, Directional Control Valves – types, Check Valves – types, Flow
Control Valves – types.
Accessories: Hydraulic Accumulators - Classification, Construction, Operation and
Applications of Hydraulic Accumulators, Hydraulic Filters, Hydraulic Pressure Switches –
types.
UNIT IV
Hydraulic Actuators: Hydraulic Cylinders – Construction, Classification, Hydraulic Rotary
Actuators – types, Hydraulic Motors – types, Hydraulic Circuits.
Hydraulic Servo Actuators: Construction, Operation and Applications of Hydraulic Servo
Actuators, Valve-Controlled Actuators.
UNIT V
Pneumatic Systems: Introduction, Peculiarities of Pneumatic Systems, Advantages and
Disadvantages of Pneumatic Systems, Basic Elements of Pneumatic Systems, Basic
Pneumatic Circuits, Air Compressors, Pneumatic Reservoirs, Air Filters, Air Lubricators,
Pneumatic Control Valves, Manual Control of a Single- Acting Cylinder, Unidirectional Speed
Control of a Single-Acting Cylinder, Bidirectional Speed Control of a Single-Acting Cylinder,
Bidirectional Speed Control of a Double-Acting Cylinder, Unidirectional and Quick Return
Control of a Double-Acting Cylinder.
TEXT BOOK
1. Fluid Power Engineering - M. Galal Rabie - McGraw-Hill publications.
REFERENCES
1. Design of Hydraulic Control Systems - Ernest e. Lewis, Hansjoerg stern - McGraw-hill
Publications.
2. Fluid Power Control - John f. Blackburn, Gerhard Reethof, J. Lowen shearer - John Wiley
and sons inc.
195
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year II Semester L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 0 3
(5ME82) DESIGN FOR MANUFACTURING
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Production Technology, Metallurgy & Material Science, Design
Concepts, Automation, Machine Tools
Course Objectives
• Understand the methodology of AFMA, in terms of design process, Material
selection and its relationship with the Manufacturing Processes
• Understand the manufacturing processes like machining, casting, metal joining, cold
working operations like forging, extrusion of metals
• Understand various sheet metal operations and the design concepts behind them
• Understand various design processes to be used manual, automatic assembly
and material handling equipment
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply the rules and methods for the design of machine component and products
• Apply appropriate methods for selecting the materials and the processes involved in
manufacture of various components and systems
• Process metals by cold working, sheet metal and joining operations by applying relevant
rules
• Design and develop manual and automatic assembly processes using various tools
UNIT I
Introduction: Design philosophy, Steps in design process, General design rules for
manufacturability, Basic principles of designing for economical production, Creativity in design.
Materials: Selection of materials for design, Criteria for material selection, Material selection
interrelationship with process selection, Process Selection charts.
UNIT II
Machining Process: Overview of various machining processes, General design rules for
machining, Dimensional tolerance and surface roughness, Design for machining ease,
Redesigning of components for machining ease with suitable examples, General design
recommendations for machined parts.
196
R15
Metal Casting: Appraisal of various casting processes, Selection of casting process, General
design considerations for casting, casting tolerances, Use of solidification simulation in casting
design, Product design rules for sand casting.
UNIT III
Metal Joining: Appraisal of various welding processes, Factors in design of weldments,
General design guidelines - Pre and post treatment of welds, Effects of thermal stresses in
weld joints, Design of brazed joints.
Forging: Design factors for Forging, Closed die forging design, Parting lines of die drop
forging die design, General design recommendations.
Extrusion and Sheet Metal Work: Design guidelines for extruded sections, Design principles
for Punching, Blanking, Bending, Deep Drawing, Keeler Goodman Forming Line Diagram,
Component design for Blanking.
UNIT IV
Assembly Advantages: Development of the assembly process, Choice of assembly method,
Assembly advantages, Social effects of automation.
Automatic Assembly Transfer Systems: Continuous transfer, Intermittent transfer, Indexing
mechanisms and operator - paced free transfer machine.
UNIT V
Design of Manual Assembly: General design guidelines for manual assembly, Development
of the systematic DFA methodology, Assembly efficiency, Classification system for manual
handling, Classification system for manual insertion and fastening, Effect of part symmetry on
handling time, Effect of part thickness and size on handling time, Effect of weight on handling
time.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Assembly Automation and Product Design by Geoffrey Boothroyd, Publisher: Marcel
Dekker Inc.
2. Engineering Design – Material and Processing Approach by George E. Dieter, Publisher:
McGraw Hill Intl.
REFERENCES
1. Hand Book of Product Design by Geoffrey Boothroyd, Publisher: Marcel and Dekker.
2. Computer Aided Assembly Planning by A. Delchambre, Publisher: Springer.
197
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year II Semester L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 0 3
(5ME84) PRINCIPLES OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: General Management & Financial Accounting concepts, Enthusiasm
towards Entrepreneurship
Course Objectives
• Analyze the entrepreneurial process involved in creating, managing a new enterprise
• Analyze the background and apply tools necessary to participate in the entrepreneurial
process
• Evaluate the fundamental business framework
• Enables students to master the need to effectively apply the theories and various
approaches of entrepreneurship to create wealth
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Identify the key steps required for exploiting an innovative idea or opportunity to develop
an existing business, launch a new venture, or initiate a social enterprise
• Recognize and evaluate business opportunities under dynamic economic settings
• Identify and create opportunities to solve entrepreneurial issues while starting an
enterprise
• Master the relevance of Entrepreneurship and Entrepreneurs to the economic
development of the nation especially regarding job creation and poverty alleviation in
general
UNIT I
Introduction to Entrepreneurship: Definition of Entrepreneur, Entrepreneurial Traits,
Entrepreneur vs. Manager, Entrepreneur vs intrepreneur, The Entrepreneurial decision
process, Role of Entrepreneurship in Economic Development, Ethics and Social responsibility
of Entrepreneurs, Opportunities for Entrepreneurs in India and abroad, Woman as
Entrepreneur.
UNIT II
Creating and Starting the Venture: Sources of new Ideas, Methods of generating ideas,
creating ideas and problem solving, product planning and development process.
198
R15
UNIT III
The Business Plan, New Venture Expansion Strategies and Issues: Nature and scope of
Business plan, Writing Business Plan, Evaluating Business plans, Using and implementing
business plans. Marketing plan, financial plan and the organizational plan, Launching
formalities. Features and evaluation of joint ventures, mergers, acquisitions, franchising. Public
issues, rights issues, bonus issues and stock splits.
UNIT IV
Financing and Managing the New Venture: Sources of capital, Record keeping,
Recruitment, Motivating and leading teams, Financial controls, Marketing and sales
controls, E-commerce and Entrepreneurship, Internet advertising.
UNIT V
Institutional Support to Entrepreneurship and Labour Legislation: Role of Directorate of
Industries, District Industries Centers (DICs), Industrial Development Corporation (IDC), State
Financial Corporation (SFCs), Small Scale Industries Development Corporations (SSIDCs),
Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC), Technical Consultancy Organization (TCO),
Small Industries Service Institute (SISI), National Small Industries Corporation (NSIC), Small
Industries Development Bank of India(SIDBI). Salient Provision under Indian Factories Act,
Industrial Disputes Act, Employees State Insurance Act, Workmen's Compensation Act and
payment of Bonus Act.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Robert Hirsch and Michael Peters: Entrepreneurship, TMH, 5th Edition.
2. Dillinger: Entrepreneurship, 4/e, Pearson, 2004.
REFERENCES
1. Vasant Desai: Dynamics of Entrepreneurial Development and management, Himalaya
Publishing House, 2004.
2. Harvard Business Review on Entrepreneurship, HBR Paper Back, 1999.
3. Robert J.Calvin: Entrepreneurial Management, TMH, 2004.
4. Gurmeet Naroola: The Entrepreneurial Connection, TMH, 2001.
5. Bolton and Thompson: Entrepreneurs- Talent, Temperament, Technique, Butterworth
Heinemann, 2001.
199
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year II Semester L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(5AE78) AUTOMOTIVE POLLUTION AND CONTROL
Course Prerequisites: Automotive Engines and Systems
Course Objectives
• Understand the sources of automotive emissions and their ill effects on environment and
human beings
• Discuss the formation of pollutants from SI and CI and the operating parameters
influences emission
• Provide different techniques used to control emission from SI and CI engine vehicles
• Learn various emission measurement techniques, standards and test procedures
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Analyze the sources of automotive emissions and their ill effects on environment and
human beings
• Explain the formation of pollutants from SI and CI and the operating parameters
influences emission
• Apply techniques used to control emission from SI and CI engine vehicles
• Identify various pollution measurement techniques, standards and control of emissions
UNIT I
Introduction: Types of emission and transient operational effects on pollution, sources of
emission, effect of pollution on human health, role of fuels in engine emission, effect of fuel
properties and additives on emissions, vehicle population and contribution to pollution, and
emission norms.
UNIT II
Pollutant Formation in SI Engines: Pollutant formation in SI engines, mechanism of HC and
CO formation in four stroke and two stroke SI engines, NOx formation in SI engines, effects of
design and operating variables on emission formation,
200
R15
UNIT III
Pollutant Formation in CI Engines: Pollutant formation in CI engines, smoke and particulate
emissions in CI engines, effects of design and operating variables on CI engine emissions,
No formation and control.
x
UNIT IV
Control of Emissions From SI and CI Engines: Design of engine, optimum selection of
operating variables for control of emissions, types of catalytic converters, catalytic mechanism,
crankcase emission control, fuel evaporation control, exhaust gas recirculation, SCR, thermal
reactors and secondary air injection.
UNIT V
Measurement Techniques and Test Procedure: Orsat Apparatus, NDIR (Non Dispersive
Infra Red) ananyser, FID (Flame Ionization Detector) detector, Chemiluminescent analyzer,
Gas Chromatograph, smoke meters, driving cycles – USA, Japan, Euro and India. Test
procedures – ECE (Economic Commission for Europe), FTP (Federal Test Procedure), SHED
(Sealed Housing for Evaporative Determinations) Test – chassis dynamometers and dilution
tunnels.
TEXT BOOKS
1. John B Heywood, “Internal Combustion Engine Fundamentals”, McGraw Hill International
Editions, 1988.
2. Paul Degobert, “Automobiles and Pollution”, SAE International, ISBN-1-56091-563-3.
REFERENCES
1. Ganesan V, “Internal Combustion Engines”, 4th edition, Tata McGraw Hill, New Delhi,
2012.
2. Obert E F, “Internal Combustion Engine analysis and Practice ", International Text Book
Co., Scranton, Pennsylvania, 1988.
3. SAE Transactions- “Vehicle Emission”- 1982 (3 volumes).
3. Marco Nute- “Emissions from two stroke engines, SAE Publication.
4. Heinz Heisler, “Advanced Engine Technology”, SAE 1995.
201
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year II Semester L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(5AE79) PLANT LAYOUT AND MATERIAL HANDLING SYSTEMS
Course Prerequisite: Knowledge of manufacturing, Operations Research
Course Objectives
• Apply plant layout system, its types and software tools used
• Analyze elements of various material handling systems
• Create an appropriate material handling system
• Create an efficient storage system
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Evaluate an appropriate plant layout for a plant
• Create flexible plant layout to accommodate changes in product volume or product type
• Analyze an appropriate material handling system
• Evaluate the systems and equipments used for material storage
UNIT I
Plant Layouts: Fundamentals of plant layouts, Classification of layout, Advantages and
limitations of different layouts. Layout design procedures. Process Layout and Product Layout:
Comparison, Selection, Specification, Implementation and follow up.
UNIT II
Group Layout and Fixed Position Layout, Quadratic assignment model, Branch and bound
method. Software tools used for making plant layouts – ALDEP, CORELAP, CRAFT; Case
studies
UNIT III
Elements of Material Handling System: Importance; Terminology; Objectives and benefits of
better material handling; Principles and features of Material Handling System;
Interrelationships between material handling and plant layout; Physical facilities and other
organizational functions; Classification of material handling equipments.
Selection of Material Handling Equipments: Factors affecting for selection; Material
handling equation; Choices of material handling equipment; General analysis procedures;
Basic analytical techniques; The unit load concept; Selection of suitable types of systems for
applications; Activity cost data and economic analysis for design of components of material
202
R15
handling systems; Functions and parameters affecting service; Packing and storage of
materials.
UNIT IV
Hoists: Drives for hoisting; Components and hoisting mechanisms; Rail traveling components
and mechanisms; Hoisting gear operation during transient motion; Selecting the motor rating
and determining breaking torque for hoisting mechanisms.
Cranes: Hand-propelled and electrically driven E.O.T. overhead traveling cranes; Traveling
mechanisms of cantilever and monorail cranes; Design considerations for structures of rotary
cranes with fixed radius; Fixed post and overhead traveling cranes; Stability of stationary
rotary and traveling rotary cranes.
ASRS: Introduction to ASRS and AGVS
UNIT V
Load Lifting Attachments: Load chains and types of ropes used in material handling system;
Forged, Standard and ramshorn hooks; Crane grabs and clamps; Grab buckets;
Electromagnet; Design consideration for conveyor belts; Application of attachments.
Study of Systems and Equipments used for Material Storage: Objectives of storage; Bulk
material handling; Gravity flow of solids through slides and chutes; Storage in bins and
hoppers; Belt conveyors; Bucket-elevators; Screw conveyors; Vibratory conveyors; Cabin
conveyors; Mobile racks etc.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Operations Management A Quantitative Approach by P.B.Mahapatra,Publisher: Prentice
Hall International.
2. Operations Management by S.Anil Kumar, N.Suresh,Publisher: New Age Publishers.
3. Material Handling Equipment by N. Rudenko; Publisher: Peace publishers.
4. Facility Layout, Location and Analytical Approach by R.L. Francis, L.F. McLinnis Jr.,
White; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
5. Aspects of Material Handling by Dr.K.C.Arora&Shinde; Publisher:Lakshmi Publications.
203
R15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year II Semester L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(5AE80) COMPOSITE MATERIALS
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics, Chemistry and Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives
• Understand composite materials and their properties, relationship between them and
manufacturing of different types
• Understand the principles of material science applied to composite materials
• Study the equations to analyze problems by making good assumptions and learn
systematic engineering method to solve practical composite mechanics problems
• Understands the different methods of manufacturing composite materials
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply fundamental knowledge of mathematics to modeling and analysis of composite
materials
• Analyze the the manufacturing methods of various composite materials
• Analyze the failure of composites
• Synthesize and use right composite materials for the right component
UNIT I
Introduction: Introduction to Composite Materials: Introduction, definition of composite
materials, Classification of composites: Polymer Matrix Composites, Metal Matrix Composites,
Ceramic Matrix Composites, Carbon-Carbon Composites, Fiber reinforced Composites and
Nature made composites, and applications
UNIT II
Reinforcements: Introduction, Classification of reinforcements, Flexibility, Fibers: Glass-
Fabrication, structure, properties and applications, Boron-Fabrication, structure and
morphology, properties and its applications, Carbon preparation, processing, properties and
applications, Preparation, properties and applications of: Organic fibers–Polyethylene, Aramid,
Ceramic, Non oxide-Silicon carbide, Whiskers
UNIT III
Matrix Materials: Introduction, Polymers matrix materials-Thermoplastics and Thermosets,
copolymers, molecular weight, degree of crystallinity, stress strain behavior Common
thermoset matrix materials- epoxy, polyster, polyimides common thermoplastic matrix
204
R15
materials- polyphenylene sulfide, polyaryl sulfone, Metal matrix materials- structure,
properties of metals, common metals applied as matrix metals, Ceramix matrix materials-
types, properties.
Interfaces-wettability, effect of surface roughness, crystallographic nature of interface, Types
of bonding at the interface-mechanical, physical, Chemical bonding.
Tests for measuring interfacial strength-Flexural tests, three point bending, four point bending,
short beam shear test, iosipescu shear test, Single fiber pullout test, curved neck specimen
test, instrumented indentation test, fragmentation test., Laser spallation technique.
UNIT IV
Manufacturing Methods: Polymer matrix composites(PMC)-Processing of thermoset matrix
composites, Handy Lay –Up and Spray Techniques, Filament winding, pultrusion, resin
transfer molding, Tape-Laying and fiber placement systems, Autoclave –based methods,
Thermoplastic matrix composites-Film stacking, Diaphraming, Thermoplastic Tape laying,
Injection Moulding, sheet moulding compound (SMC)
Types of Metal Matrix composites, processing-liquid state process, solid state process, In situ
process, properties and applications.
Ceramic matrix composites(CMC)-processing OF CMC, Cold pressing and sintering, Hot
pressing, Reaction bonding process, Liquid infiltration, Lanxide process, In Situ chemical
Reactions Techniques-chemical vapour deposition and chemical vapour impregnation, sol-gel
and polymer pyrolysis, Properties and applications of CMC, Carbon Fiber composites-
processing, properties and its applications.
UNIT V
Micromechanics of Composites: Introduction, Density, Volume, and Mass fractions, void
contents, Mechanical Properties: Prediction of elastic constants, Halpin-Tsai Equations,
Thermal properties: Thermal expansion coefficients of composites, thermal conductivity of
composites, Hygral and Thermal stress
Macromechanics of Composites: Introduction, elastic constants of an isotropic material,
elastic constants of a Lamina, Relationships between engineering constants and reduced
stiffness and compliances, Fracture modes in composites: single and multiple fracture,
debonding, fiber pullout, delamination, fracture, fatigue and creep properties of composites,
Design with composites: Advantages of composites in structural design, Fundamental
characteristics of composites.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Composite Materials Science and Engineering by Krishan K. Chawla; Publisher: Springer.
2. Engineering Mechanics of Composite Materials by Isaac and M. Daniel; Publisher:
Oxford University Press, 1994.
205
R15
REFERENCES
1. Mechanics of Composites Material by R. M. Jones, Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Mechanics of Composite materials and Structures by Madhuji Mukhopadyaya Publisher:
University Press.
3. Analysis and performance of Fiber Composites by B. D. Agarwal, L. J. Broutman, and K.
Chandrasekhara; Publisher: John Wiley.
206
R15
NR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. IV Year II Semester L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(5ME88) NANO SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics and chemistry
Course Objectives
• Understand the nanomaterials and their properties
• Gain knowledge of different nanostructures of carbon and their properties
• Know applications of carbon nanotubes
• Build technologies to design, realize and analyze micro and nano-scale electronic
devices, materials and systems, coupled with general and technology management
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Create solutions in engineering, biotechnology and manufacturing by identifying
current nanotechnology
• Apply the fundamental knowledge of science to characterize the nanomaterials
• Synthesize carbon Nanotubes and nano materials
• Evaluate tools in nanoscience for applications in various sectors
UNIT I
Introduction to Nano: Importance, Definition and scope, Nano size, challenges, applications.
Electrons, Atoms and Ions, Molecules, Metals, Other Materials.
History of Nano-Science & Technology: Nano magnetism as a case study; Fundamental
terms (Physics & Chemistry) in nano-science and technology; Feynman’s perspective; Scaling
laws pertaining to mechanics, optics, electromagnetism; Importance of Quantum mechanics,
statistical mechanics and chemical kinetics in nano-science and technology.
UNIT II
Classification of Nano Materials: Scientific basis for top-down and bottom-up approaches to
synthesize Nanomaterials; How to characterize Nanomaterials? Electrons in Nanomaterials.
Tools of the Nanoscience: Tools for Measuring Nanostructures, Tools to Make
Nanostructures. Nano scale Biostructures, Energy Capture, Transformation, and Storage
Optics, Magnets, Fabrication, Electronics, Electronics Again Modelling.
UNIT III
207
R15
Nano-Biotechnology: Bio-molecules; Biosensors; Nanomaterials in drug delivery; Working in
clean room environments; Safety and related aspects of Nanomaterials.
UNIT IV
Carbon Nanotubes & Structures: Carbon Nano structures and types of Carbon Nano tubes,
growth mechanisms of carbon nanotubes. Carbon clusters and Fullerenes, Synthesis of CNTs
by Flame, CVD, Laser & Arc-discharge process.
UNIT V
Lithium & Hydrogen adsorption & storages, Fuel cell applications and energy storage,
Chemical Sensors applications of CNTs.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Nanotechnology Fundamentals and Applications- by Manasi Karkare I.K International.
2. Nanoscience and Nanotechnology in engineering – by Vijay K Varadan A Sivathanupillai
Word scientific.
REFERENCES
1. Nanotechnology applications to telecommunications and networking By Daniel Minoli,
Wiley Interscience.
2. Nanotechnology Principles and Applications by Sulabha Kulkarni.
208
