SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/R15/R15CE.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
Civil Engineering
B.TECH. FOUR YEAR DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2015-2016)
VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous Institute, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
NBA Accreditation for CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT B.Tech. Programmes
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi, Affiliated to JNTUH
Recognized as “College with Potential for Excellence” by UGC
Vignana Jyothi Nagar, Pragathi Nagar, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500 090, TS, India.
Telephone No: 040-2304 2758/59/60, Fax: 040-23042761
E-mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
Vision and Mission of the Institute
VISION
To be a World Class University providing value-based education, conducting
interdisciplinary research in cutting edge technologies leading to sustainable socio-
economic development of the nation.
MISSION
➢ To produce technically competent and socially responsible engineers, managers
and entrepreneurs, who will be future ready.
➢ To involve students and faculty in innovative research projects linked with industry,
academic and research institutions in India and abroad.
➢ To use modern pedagogy for improving the teaching-learning process.
Vision and Mission of the Department
VISION
To develop Civil Engineering Department as a Centre of excellence for
imparting value based education to the students at undergraduate and post-graduate
level to meet industry needs and to develop as a major research center meeting
national and international standards.
MISSION
➢ To impart in-depth and up-to-date knowledge of Civil Engineering concepts with
focus on character enhancement, leadership qualities, effective communication,
social responsibility and pursuit of lifelong learning and professional development.
➢ To provide a platform to the students to engage in original research work in
association with faculty.
2
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS FOR B.TECH. PROGRAMME
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2015-2016)
1. Programmes of Study
• The following four year B.Tech. degree programmes of study are offered at
VNR VJIET from the academic year 2017-2018.
Branch
Branch
Code
01 Civil Engineering
02 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
03 Mechanical Engineering
04 Electronics and Communication Engineering
05 Computer Science and Engineering
10 Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
12 Information Technology
24 Automobile Engineering
• ‘ENGLISH’ language is used as the medium of instruction in all the above
programmes.
1.1 Eligibility Criteria for Admission
The eligibility criteria for admission into engineering programmes shall be as
mentioned below:
• The candidate shall be an Indian National / NRI
• The candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st December
of the academic year for which the admissions are being conducted
• The candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or
equivalent as on the date of admission recognized by BIE, Telangana State
1.1.1 Seats in each programme in the Institution are classified into Category A and
Category B as per the G.Os.
3
Category – A Seats:
These seats shall be filled through counseling as per the rank in the Common
Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by the State Government and as per
other admission criteria laid down in the G.Os.
Category - B Seats:
These seats shall be filled by the Institute as per the G.Os issued by the State
Government from time to time.
1.1.2 Category: Lateral Entry
The candidate shall be admitted into the Third Semester, (2nd year, 1st
semester) based on the rank secured by the candidate in Engineering
Common Entrance Test (ECET (FDH)) by the Convener, ECET.
2. Distribution and Weights of Marks
i. The performance of a student in each semester shall be evaluated subject –
wise with a maximum of 100 marks for theory and 100 marks for practical
subjects. In addition, an Industry oriented mini-project, seminar,
comprehensive viva-voce and project work shall be evaluated for 100, 100,
100 and 200 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects, the distribution shall be 40 marks for Mid-term
Evaluation and 60 marks for the Semester End Examination.
.
Mid-Term Evaluation (40 M):
Mid-term evaluation consists of mid-term examination (30 M) and
assignment/test (10 M).
➢ Mid-term examination (30 M):
• For theory subjects, two mid examinations shall be conducted in each
semester as per the academic calendar. Each mid examination shall be
evaluated for 30 marks.
PART-A 3 X 2M = 6 M (one question from each UNIT)
PART-B 3 X 8 M = 24 M (three internal choice questions one from each
UNIT shall be given, the student has to answer one question from each
UNIT)
• 80 % weightage for better mid-term examination and 20% weightage for
the other mid examination shall be used and calculated as the final mid-
term examination marks for each subject.
➢ Assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project (10 M):
• Two assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project shall be
given to the students covering the syllabus of First Mid and Second Mid
Examinations respectively and evaluated for 10 marks each.
• The first assignment shall be submitted before first mid examination and
second assignment shall be submitted before second mid examination.
• The average of 2 assignments shall be taken as final assignment marks.
iii. For practical subjects, there shall be a continuous evaluation during the
semester for 40 marks and 60 marks for semester end examination. Out
of the 40 marks, day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be evaluated for
4
10 marks, and 15 marks for practical examination and 15 marks for
laboratory record.
NOTE: 1. Any student who shall remain absent for any assignment/Mid-term
examination for any reason what so ever, shall be deemed to have
secured ‘zero’ marks in the test/examination and no makeup
test/examination shall be conducted.
2. Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
iv. For the subjects having design and / or drawing, (such as Engineering
Graphics, Geometrical Drawing, Machine Drawing, Production Drawing
Practice, and Estimation etc.,) the distribution shall be 40 marks for internal
evaluation (20 marks for day-to-day work and 20 marks for Mid
examination (the average of the two examinations shall be taken into
account) and 60 marks for semester end examination.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
v. There shall be an industry-oriented mini-project, in collaboration with an
industry of their specialization, to be taken up during the summer vacation
after III year II semester examination. The industry oriented mini project
shall be evaluated during the IV year I semester. The industry oriented
mini project shall be submitted in report form and presented before a
committee, which shall evaluate it for 100 marks. The committee shall consist
of Head of the Department, the supervisor of mini project and a senior faculty
member of the department. There shall be no mid-term assessment for
industry oriented mini project. However, attending the shadow
engineering program or any such other programme, in lieu thereof, is a
pre-requisite for evaluating industry-oriented mini project.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
vi. There shall be a seminar presentation in IV year II semester. For the
seminar, the student shall collect the information on a specialized topic other
than the project topic and prepare a technical report, showing his
understanding of the topic, and submit to the department, which shall be
evaluated by a departmental committee consisting of the Head of the
department, seminar supervisor and a senior faculty member. The seminar
shall be evaluated for 100 marks based on the report and presentation
made.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
vii. There shall be a comprehensive viva-voce in IV year II semester. The
comprehensive viva-voce shall be conducted by a committee consisting of
the Head of the Department and three senior faculty members of the
Department after submitting the filled and duly signed M.T.P record. The
comprehensive viva-voce is aimed to assess the student’s understanding in
various subjects studied during the B.Tech. programme of study. The
comprehensive viva-voce shall be evaluated for 100 marks by the
committee. There shall be no Mid-term assessment for the
comprehensive viva-voce.
Evaluation:-
a. Objective type examination – 50 marks. (Two hours test)
b. Committee evaluation – 50 marks.
5
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s
viii. The project work shall be started by the student in the beginning of the IV
year I semester. Out of a total of 200 marks for the project work, 80 marks
shall be for mid-term evaluation and 120 marks for the semester end
examination. The viva-voce shall be conducted by a committee comprising
an external examiner, Head of the Department, the project supervisor and
one senior faculty. The evaluation of project work shall be conducted at the
end of the IV year II Semester. The mid-term evaluation shall be on the
basis of three seminars conducted during the IV year II semester for 80
marks by the committee consisting of Head of the Department, project
supervisor and senior faculty member of the Department.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s
3. Semester End Examination (60 M):
(a) Theory Courses
Question paper pattern for semester end examination (60 Marks) consists of
two sections i.e., Part-A and Part-B.
PART-A:
• Shall consist of 10 questions of 02 marks each. (10X2M = 20M)
• There shall be 02 questions from each unit.
• All the questions are compulsory.
PART-B:
• Shall consist of 05 questions of 08 marks each. (05X8M = 40M)
• There shall be 01 question from each unit with internal choice.
(b) Practical Courses
Each laboratory course shall be evaluated for 60 marks. The semester end
examination shall be conducted by two examiners, one Internal and other
external concerned with the subject of the same / other department / Industry.
The evaluation shall be as per the standard format.
(c) Supplementary Examinations
Supplementary examinations shall be conducted along with regular semester
end examinations. (During even semester regular examinations,
supplementary examinations of odd semester and during odd semester
regular examinations, supplementary examinations of even semester shall be
conducted).
4. Attendance Requirements
i. A student shall be eligible to appear for the semester end examinations if he /
she acquire a minimum of 75% of attendance in aggregate of all the
courses in that semester.
ii. Shortage of attendance in aggregate up to 10% (attendance of 65% and
above and below 75%) in a semester may be condoned by the Institute
6
Academic Committee based on the rules prescribed by the Academic
Council of the Institute from time to time.
iii. A student shall not be permitted to write the semester end examination and
not promoted to the next semester unless he/she satisfies the attendance
requirement of the present semester, as applicable. He/She may seek re-
admission for that semester when offered next, if not promoted to the next
semester.
iv. Shortage of attendance below 65% in aggregate shall in NO case be
condoned.
v. Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned or who have not
paid the stipulated fee or who have not cleared any other due to the Institute
in any semester are not eligible to writer semester end examination of that
semester.
5. Minimum Academic Requirements
The following academic requirements have to be satisfied in addition to the
attendance requirements mentioned in Regulation No.4.
i. A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic
requirements and earned the credits allotted to each theory or practical or
design or drawing subject or project, if he/she secures not less than 35% (21
out of 60 marks) of marks in the semester end examination and a
minimum of 40% of marks in the sum total of the mid-term evaluation
and semester end examination taken together.
ii. For promotion from II year II semester to III year I semester, the student
needs to have 50% of credits up to II year II semester which includes
➢ Two regular and two supplementary examinations of I B Tech. I semester.
➢ Two regular and one supplementary examinations of I B Tech. II
semester
➢ One regular and one supplementary examinations of II year I semester.
➢ One regular examinations of II year II semester.
iii. For promotion from III year II semester to IV year I semester, the student
needs to have 50% of credits up to III year II semester which includes
➢ Three regular and three supplementary examinations of I B Tech. I
semester.
➢ Three regular and two supplementary examinations of I B Tech. II
semester
➢ Two regular and two supplementary examinations of II year I semester.
➢ Two regular and one supplementary examinations of II year II semester.
➢ One regular and one supplementary examination of III year I semester.
➢ One regular examination of III year II semester.
iv. A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 188
credits and earn atleast 180 credits for the award of B.Tech. degree.
The grade obtained for the minimum credits shall be considered for the
calculation of CGPA.
7
v. The students shall take one open elective subject each from the lists given in
open elective-1 and open elective-2. The selected subjects shall not belong to
their own branch.
vi. The student shall be qualified in two certificate courses during his/her
course of study.
vii. “Gender Sensitization” is compulsory value added course as per the JNTUH
procds. No. A1/2557/XXII SCAS/2015(2), dated 19.11.2015.
viii. Students who fail to earn atleast 180 credits as indicated in the course
structure within eight academic years counting from the year of their
admission shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech. programme and their admission
stands cancelled.
6. Course pattern
i. The entire programme of study is of four academic years. All I, II, III and IV
years are of semester pattern.
ii. A student eligible to appear for the semester end examination in a subject,
but absent or has failed in the semester end examination may reappear for
that subject in the supplementary examination whenever conducted.
iii. When a student is detained due to shortage of attendance in any semester,
he/she shall seek readmission into that semester when it is offered next, with
the academic regulations of the batch into which he/she gets readmitted
and has to obtain the degree within 8 academic years from the year of
his/her original admission.
iv. When a student is detained due to lack of credits in any year, he/she may be
eligible for promotion to the next year after obtaining the required number of
credits and fulfillment of the academic requirements.
7. Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. degree if he/she
fulfils the following academic regulations:
i. Pursued a programme of study for not less than four academic years
and not more than eight academic years.
ii. Registered for 188 credits and secured a minimum of 180 credits with
compulsory subjects as listed in the following Table.
Table: Compulsory Courses
S. No. Courses Particulars
1. All Practical Courses
2. Industry oriented mini project
3. Comprehensive Viva-Voce
4. Seminar
5. Project work
6. Engineering Graphics / Engineering Drawing / Machine Drawing
8
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award of
the degree within eight academic years from the year of their admission, shall
forfeit their seat in B.Tech. programme.
8. CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points in four year B.Tech. degree
programme is as follows:
• Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the total marks obtained in
mid-term and semester end examinations.
• Grades and Grade points are assigned as given below.
Description Grade Points(GP)
Marks Obtained Grade
of Grade Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A+ Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 A Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 B Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 C Fair 6.00
>=40 and <49.99 D Pass 5.00
<40 F Fail
--
Not Appeared the Exam(s) N Absent
• The student is eligible for the award of the B.Tech. degree with the class
as mentioned in the following table.
CGPA Class
>= 7.5 First Class with Distinction
>= 6.5 and <7.5 First Class
>= 5.5 and < 6.5 Second Class
>=5.0 and < 5.5 Pass Class
➢ Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
The performance of each student at the end of the each semester shall be
indicated in terms of SGPA. The SGPA shall be calculated as below:
9
Where Ci = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘i’
Gi = Grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to the subject ‘i’
i = 1,2,…..p represent the number of subjects in a particular semester
Note: SGPA is calculated and awarded for the candidates who pass all the
courses in a semester.
➢ Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA):
The CGPA of a student for the entire programme shall be calculated as given
below:
• Assessment of the overall performance of a student shall be obtained by
calculating Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA), which is weighted
average of the grade points obtained in all subjects during the course of
study.
Where Cj = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘j’
Gj = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to that subject ‘j’
j = 1,2,….m represent the number of subjects of the entire program.
• Grade lower than D in any subject shall not be considered for CGPA
calculation. The CGPA shall be awarded only when the student acquires the
required number of credits prescribed for the program.
➢ Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
10
9. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to the Institute, or if any case of indiscipline is
pending against him, the result of the candidate may be withheld. The award or
issue of the Provisional Certificate and the Degree may also be withheld in such
cases.
10. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or
any other academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and
when they become eligible. They have to take up Equivalent subjects, as substitute
subjects in place of repeated subjects as decided by the Chairman of the BoS of
the respective departments. He/She shall be admitted under the regulation of the
batch in which he/she is readmitted.
11. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each semester shall be 90 instruction days.
12. There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission process.
13. The decision of the Institute Academic Committee shall be final in respect of
equivalent subjects for those students who are transferred from other
colleges. The transfer of students from other college or from this institute is
to be approved by the Governing Council of the Institute.
14. General
i. Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include
“she”, “her”, “hers”.
ii. The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
iii. In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arising in the above rules and
regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
iv. The Chairman Academic Council may change or amend any or all of the
academic regulations or syllabi at any time and the changes or amendments
made shall be applicable to all the students concerned with effect from the
dates notified by the College.
15. Academic Regulations for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2016-2017)
A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. degree if he/she
fulfils the following academic regulations:
i. Pursued a programme of study for not less than three academic years
and not more than six academic years.
ii. Registered for 138 credits and secured a minimum of 130 credits with
compulsory subjects as listed in the following Table.
Table: Compulsory Courses
S. No. Courses Particulars
1. All Practical Courses
2. Industry oriented mini project
3. Comprehensive Viva-Voce
4. Seminar
5. Project work
6. Engineering Graphics / Engineering Drawing / Machine Drawing
11
iii. A student who fails to earn a minimum of 130 credits as indicated in the
course structure within six academic years from the year of their admission
shall forfeit his/her seat in B.Tech. programme and his admission stands
cancelled.
iv. The same attendance regulations are adopted as that of B.Tech. four year
degree course.
v. For promotion from III year II semester to IV year I semester, the student
needs to have 50% of credits up to III year II semester which includes
➢ Two regular and two supplementary examinations of II B Tech. I
semester
➢ Two regular and one supplementary examinations of II B Tech. II
semester
➢ One regular and one supplementary examinations of III B.Tech. I
semester
➢ One regular of examinations of III year II semester
vi. All other regulations as applicable to B.Tech. four year degree course shall
hold good for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme).
16. Malpractice Rules
Disciplinary Action for Malpractices/Improper Conduct in Examinations
Nature of Malpractices/Improper
S.
conduct
Punishment
No.
If the candidate:
(a) Possesses or keeps accessible in
examination hall, any paper, note book,
programmable calculators, Cell phones,
pager, palm computers or any other form
of material concerned with or related to Expulsion from the examination hall
the subject of the examination (theory or and cancellation of the
practical) in which he is appearing but performance in that subject only.
has not made use of (material shall
1.
include any marks on the body of the
candidate which can be used as an aid
in the subject of the examination)
(b)Gives assistance or guidance or Expulsion from the examination hall
receives it from any other candidate and cancellation of the
orally or by any other body language performance in that subject only of
methods or communicates through cell all the candidates involved. In case
phones with any candidate or persons in of an outsider, he shall be handed
or outside the exam hall in respect of over to the police and a case is
any matter. registered against him.
Has copied in the examination hall from Expulsion from the examination hall
any paper, book, programmable and cancellation of the
2. calculators, palm computers or any other performance in that subject and all
form of material relevant to the subject of other subjects the candidate has
the examination (theory or practical) in already appeared including
which the candidate is appearing. practical examinations and project
12
work and shall not be permitted to
appear for the remaining
examinations of the subjects of that
Semester/year.
The Hall Ticket of the candidate is
to be cancelled.
The candidate who has
impersonated shall be expelled
from examination hall. The
candidate is also debarred and
forfeits the seat. The performance
of the original candidate, who has
been impersonated, shall be
cancelled in all the subjects of the
examination (including practicals
and project work) already appeared
and shall not be allowed to appear
3. Impersonates any other candidate in for examinations of the remaining
connection with the examination. subjects of that semester/year.
The candidate is also debarred for
two consecutive semesters from
class work and all end semester
examinations. The continuation of
the course by the candidate is
subject to the academic regulations
in connection with forfeiture of seat.
If the imposter is an outsider, he
shall be handed over to the police
and a case is registered against
him.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of performance in
4. that subject and all the other
subjects the candidate has already
appeared including practical
examinations and project work and
Smuggles the Answer book or additional
sheet or takes out or arranges to send
shall not be permitted for the
remaining examinations of the
out the question paper during the
subjects of that semester/year. The
examination or answer book or
additional sheet, during or after the
candidate is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class
examination.
work and all end semester and
supplementary examinations The
continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the
academic regulations in connection
with forfeiture of seat.
Uses objectionable, abusive or offensive
language in the answer paper or in
5. letters to the examiners or writes to the Cancellation of the performance in
that subject.
examiner requesting him to award pass
marks.
13
Refuses to obey the orders of the Chief
Superintendent/Assistant–
Superintendent / any officer on duty or
misbehaves or creates disturbance of
any kind in and around the examination
In case of students of the college,
hall or organizes a walk out or instigates
they shall be expelled from
others to walk out, or threatens the
examination halls and cancellation
officer-in charge or any person on duty
of their performance in that subject
in or outside the examination hall of any
and all other subjects the
injury to his person or to any of his
candidate(s) has (have) already
relations whether by words, either
appeared and shall not be
spoken or written or by signs or by
6. visible representation, assaults the permitted to appear for the
remaining examinations of the
officer-in-charge, or any person on duty
subjects of that semester/year.
in or outside the examination hall or any
The candidates are also debarred
of his relations, or indulges in any other
and they shall forfeit their seats. In
act of misconduct or mischief which
case of outsiders, they shall be
result in damage to or destruction of
handed over to the police and a
property in the examination hall or any
police case is registered against
part of the College campus or engages
them.
in any other act which in the opinion of
the officer on duty amounts to use of
unfair means or misconduct or has the
tendency to disrupt the orderly conduct
of the examination.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of performance in
that subject and all the other
subjects the candidate has already
appeared including practical
examinations and project work and
shall not be permitted for the
Leaves the exam hall taking away remaining examinations of the
7. answer script or intentionally tears of the subjects of that semester/year.
script or any part thereof inside or The candidate is also debarred for
outside the examination hall. two consecutive semesters from
class work and all end semester
examinations including
supplementary Examinations. The
continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the
academic regulations in connection
with forfeiture of seat.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of the
performance in that subject and all
Possesses any lethal weapon or firearm other subjects the candidate has
8. in the examination hall. already appeared including
practical examinations and project
work and shall not be permitted for
the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year.
14
The candidate is also debarred and
forfeits the seat.
If the student belongs to the
college, expulsion from the
examination hall and cancellation of
the performance in that subject and
all other subjects the candidate has
If student of the college, who is not a already appeared including
candidate for the particular examination practical examinations and project
9. or any person not connected with the work and shall not be permitted for
college indulges in any malpractice or the remaining examinations of the
improper conduct mentioned in any of subjects of that semester/year. The
clauses 6 to 8. candidate is also debarred and
forfeits the seat.
Person(s) who do not belong
to the College shall be handed over
to police and, a police case shall be
registered against them.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of the
performance in that subject and all
other subjects the candidate has
10. Comes in a drunken condition to the already appeared including
examination hall. practical examinations and project
work and shall not be permitted for
the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that series of the
semester/year.
Cancellation of the performance in
that subject and all other subjects
Copying detected on the basis of internal
11. evidence, such as, during valuation or the candidate has appeared
including practical examinations
during special scrutiny.
and project work of that
semester/year.
If any malpractice is detected which is
not covered in the above clauses 1 to 11
12. shall be reported to the academic
council of the Institute for further action
to award suitable punishment.
Malpractices identified by squad or special invigilators
Punishments shall be given to the candidates as per the above guidelines.
Malpractice identified at Spot center during valuation
The following procedure is to be followed in the case of malpractice cases
detected during valuation, scrutiny etc. at spot center.
15
1) Malpractice is detected at the spot valuation. The case is to be referred to
the malpractice committee. Malpractice committee shall meet and
discuss/question the candidate and based on the evidences, the committee
shall recommend suitable action on the candidate.
2) A notice is to be served to the candidate(s) involved, through the Principal,
to his address and to the candidate(s) permanent address regarding the
malpractice and seek explanations.
3) The involvement of staff who are in charge of conducting examinations,
invigilators, examiners valuing examination papers and preparing / keeping
records of documents related to the examinations in such acts (inclusive of
providing incorrect or misleading information) that infringe upon the course
of natural justice to one and all concerned at the examinations shall be
viewed seriously and recommend for award of appropriate punishment after
thorough enquiry.
4) Based on the explanation by the party involved and recommendations of the
committee action may be initiated.
5) Malpractice committee:
i. Dean, Academics Chairman
ii. Controller of Examinations Convener
iii. Invigilator Member
iv. Chief Examiner of the subject/subject expert Member
v. Concerned Head of the Department Member
16
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
An Autonomous Institute
Nizampet (S.O.), Hyderabad – 90
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
I. To provide students with a solid foundation in Basic Sciences, Mathematics to
analyze, synthesize and evaluate the information to achieve expertise in core
areas of Civil Engineering.
II. To equip students with modern professional abilities such as effective
communication, collaborative work in diverse teams, ethical decision making,
successful management of personal and professional career objectives and
passion for continuous development through lifelong learning.
III. To prepare the students to achieve high level technical expertise in the fields
of Environmental Engineering, Geo-Technical Engineering, Structural
Engineering, Transportation Engineering, Water Resources Engineering and
to excel in the design and construction of various components or systems of
Civil Engineering.
IV. To provide expertise through learning advanced courses in various streams
of Civil Engineering, by offering elective subjects with a view to make the
students capable to pursue higher studies and research.
V. To provide opportunities for students to learn multidisciplinary subjects such
as Elements of Electrical and Mechanical Engineering, C Programming &
Data Structures, and other open electives to make them a complete engineer
VI. To establish acquaintance with the practical implementation of the theoretical
concepts through laboratories, by bringing the real world into the academics
through virtual industry labs, and to enhance experimental skills of students
even beyond curriculum and encouraging them to carryout mini and major
projects.
VII. To prepare the students to continue their professional development based on
their awareness of professional society activities, professional licensure
requirements and opportunities for further education in graduate school.
17
Program Outcomes (POs)
a: Engineering Knowledge: The student is capable of applying the principles of basic
sciences and mathematics in learning the Civil Engineering subjects. Graduates will be
proficient in the core principles of Civil Engineering as they pertain to the sub-
fields of Structural Engineering, Water Resources Engineering, Transportation
Engineering, Geotechnical Engineering and Environmental Engineering and will be
able to apply these principles in engineering practice.
b: Problem Analysis: The Graduates will possess critical thinking skills, problem
solving abilities and familiarity with the computational procedures essential to the field.
c: Design & Development of Solutions: The student is able to plan, analyse, design
and look after the construction of various types of Civil Engineering structures with
appropriate consideration for public health and safety and cultural, societal and
environmental considerations.
d: Conduct investigations of complex problems: The student will use research
based knowledge and research methods to design, conduct experiments and to
analyze and interpret experimental data.
e: Modern Tool Usage: The student will get hands on training in the various Modern
Civil Engineering software and modern equipment.
f: The Engineer and Society: The Students will apply reasoning informed by the
appropriate knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and
the consequent responsibilities relevant to Civil Engineering practice.
g: Environment and Sustainability: As the students possess substantial knowledge
in multi -disciplinary subjects, he will be able to plan the various projects well keeping in
view of its environmental effects on other related fields.
h: Ethics: The student will apply ethical principles and commitment to profession and
responsibilities of their profession.
i: Individual and Team work: The Graduate is Capable of working productively as
individual, as member or leader in driver set teams and in multi- disciplinary settings.
j: Communication: The Student will excel in expressing ideas, writing technical
reports with good communication skills and managerial skills.
k: Project Management and Finance: The Graduates will demonstrate knowledge
and understanding of the critical issues for professional practice such as the
procurement of works, interaction with contractors during the construction phase of a
project and the financial managerial capabilities.
l: Life-Long learning: The student will maintain an awareness of contemporary issues
and will contribute to the wellbeing of the community with life-long learning in the
broadest context of ever growing technology.
18
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING (R – 15)
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name L T/P/D C
Code
5BS11 Advanced Calculus 3 0 3
5BS21 Engineering Physics 3 0 3
5BS31 Chemistry of Engineering Materials 3 0 3
C Programming and Data
5IT01 3 1 4
Structures
5CE01 Engineering Mechanics – I 3 1 4
5CE51 Geometrical Drawing -I 0 6 3
C Programming and Data
5IT51 0 3 2
Structures Laboratory
5BS25 Engineering Physics and 0 3 2
Engineering Chemistry Laboratory
Total: 15 14 24
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name L T/P/D C
Code
Ordinary Differential Equations and
5BS12 3 0 3
Laplace Transforms
5BS22 Physics of Materials 3 0 3
5BS01 English 3 0 3
5BS32 Engineering Chemistry 3 0 3
5CE02 Engineering Mechanics – II 3 1 4
5CE03 Environmental Studies 3 0 3
5CE52
Geometrical Drawing -II 0 6 3
5ME53 IT and Engineering Workshop 0 3 2
English Language Communication
5BS02 0 3 2
Skills Laboratory
Total: 18 13 26
19
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING (R – 15)
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name L T/P/D C
Code
5BS16 Probability and Statistics 3 0 3
5BS41 Business Economics and 3 0 3
Financial Analysis
5CE04 Building Materials, 3 0 3
Construction and Planning
5CE05 Fluid Mechanics 3 1 4
5CE06 Strength of Materials – I 3 0 3
5CE07 Surveying 3 0 3
5CE53 Surveying Field Work - I 0 3 2
5CE54 Material Testing Laboratory 0 3 2
Total : 18 7 23
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name L T/P/D C
Code
5BS13 Computational Methods 3 0 3
5CE08 Hydraulics and Hydraulic 3 0 3
Machines
5CE09 Strength of Materials – II 3 1 4
5ME20 Mechanical and Electrical 3 0 3
Technology
5CE10 Concrete Technology 3 0 3
5CE11 Structural Analysis - I 3 0 3
5CE55 Fluid Mechanics and 0 3 2
Hydraulic Machines Lab
5CE56 Surveying Field Work - II 0 3 2
Total : 18 7 23
#5BS04 Gender Sensitization # - 3 2
# Value added Course
20
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING (R – 15)
III YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name
L T/P/D C
Code
5CE12 Engineering Hydrology 3 0 3
5CE13 Design of Reinforced Concrete 3 1 4
Structures
5CE14 Engineering Geology 3 0 3
5CE15 Structural Analysis – II 3 1 4
Open Elective –I
3 0 3
5CE57 Engineering Geology 0 3 2
Laboratory
5CE58 Computer Aided Drafting of 0 3 2
Buildings Laboratory
5CE59 Concrete Laboratory 0 3 2
15 11 23
Total :
OPEN ELECTIVE – I
Course Course Name Course Offered By
Code the Department
5CE71 Disaster Management CE
5EE71 Renewable Energy Technologies EEE
5ME71 Digital Fabrication ME
5EC71 Principles of Electronic Communications ECE
5CS71 Object Oriented Programming through CSE
Java
5EI71 Principles of Measurements and EIE
Instrumentation
5IT71 Cyber Security IT
5AE71 Principles of Automobile Engineering AE
5BS71 Professional Ethics and Human Values H&S
21
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING (R – 15)
III YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name L T/P/D C
Code
5CE16 Design of Steel Structures 3 1 4
Irrigation Engineering 3 0 3
5CE17
5CE18 Highway Engineering 3 0 3
5CE19 Geo-technical Engineering –I 3 0 3
Open Elective –II 3 0 3
5CE60 Geo-technical Engineering 0 3 2
Laboratory
5CE61 Transportation Engineering 0 3 2
Laboratory
5BS03 Advanced English 0 3 2
Communication Skills
Laboratory
15 10 22
Total :
OPEN ELECTIVE – II
Course Course Name Course Offered
Code By the
Department
5CE72 Introduction to Geographical Information CE
System
5EE72 Energy Auditing Conservation and EEE
Management
5ME72 Optimization Techniques ME
5EC72 Introduction to Micro Processors and ECE
Controllers
5EC95 Wireless Communications and Networks ECE
5CS72 Open Source Technologies CSE
5EI72 LabVIEW Programming EIE
5EI79 Fundamentals of Robotics EIE
5IT72 Relational Database Management Systems IT
5AE72 Modern Automotive Technologies AE
5BS72 Entrepreneurship H&S
22
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING (R – 15)
IVYEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name L T/P/D C
Code
Geographical Information
5CE20 3 0 3
System
5CE21 Geo-technical Engineering -II 3 0 3
5CE22 Transportation Engineering 3 0 3
5CE23 Environmental Engineering 3 0 3
ELECTIVE – I
5CE73 Ground Water Development
and Management
3 0 3
5CE74 Finite Element Methods
5CE75 Traffic Engineering
5CE76 Solid Waste Management
ELECTIVE-II
5CE77 Design And Drawing Of
Hydraulic Structures
5CE78 Earthquake Resistant Design
of Buildings 3 0 3
5CE79 Air Pollution and Control
Technology
5CE80 Airport Planning and Design
5CE62 CAD/GIS Laboratory 0 3 2
Environmental Engineering
5CE63 0 3 2
Laboratory
5CE91 Industry Oriented Mini Project 0 0 2
Total : 18 6 24
T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
23
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. Tech. - CIVIL ENGINEERING (R – 15)
IVYEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name L T/P/D C
Code
5CE24 Estimating and Costing 3 0 3
ELECTIVE – III
Construction Technology and
5CE81
Project Management
Advanced Structural Analysis 3 0 3
5CE82
Ground Improvement techniques
5CE83
Environmental Impact
5CE84
Assessment
ELECTIVE – IV
Watershed Management
5CE85
Prestressed Concrete
5CE86 3 0 3
Pavement Analysis and Design
5CE87
Geo-synthetics and Soil
5CE88
Reinforcement
5CE92 Technical Seminar 0 3 2
5CE93 Comprehensive viva - Voce 0 0 2
5CE94 Project Work 0 20 10
Total : 9 23 23
24
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech, I sem L T/P/D C
Common to all branches 3 0 3
(5BS11) ADVANCED CALCULUS
Course prerequisites: Differentiation, Integration
Course Objectives:
• Understand the Taylor’s theorem and its application to maxima and minima of
f(x,y)
• Understand the process of curve Tracing.
• Understand multiple integrals and its applications
• Apply integral theorems of vector calculus.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Solve problems involving the maxima and minima of f(x,y).
• Trace curves using basic characteristics.
• Evaluate integrals using special functions and change of variables.
• Evaluate vector integrals.
UNIT I CALCULUS OF ONE AND SEVERAL REAL VARIABLES
Mean value theorems – Role’s Theorem, Lagrange’s Mean value theorem Cauchy’s
Mean value theorem , Taylor’s expansion and McLaurin’s expansion of functions
(without proofs).
Partial differentiation, partial derivatives of first and second order in terms of partial
derivatives, change of variables , Jacobian, Taylor’s theorem of two variables(without
proof). Maxima and Minima of two variables, Langrange’s method of undetermined
multipliers.
UNIT II CURVE TRACING AND RELATED APPLICATIONS
Radius of Curvature of curves in Cartesian, parametric and polar coordinates. Tracing
of curves in Cartesian, parametric and polar coordinates (like conics, astroid,
hypocycloid, Folium of Descartes, Cycloid, Circle, Cardiode, Lemniscate).
UNIT III MULTIPLE INTEGRALS
Beta, Gamma and Error functions, Introduction of Multiple integrals , evaluation of
double and triple integrals, change of order of integration change of variables ,
Cylindrical and Spherical polar coordinates.
UNIT IV VECTOR DIFFERENTIAL CALCULUS
Scalar and Vector point functions, Gradient, Divergence, Curl with geometrical &
physical interpretation, Directional derivatives, vector identities (without proofs).
25
UNIT V VECTOR INTEGRAL CALCULUS
Line integrals and application to Work done and Circulation, Scalar potential function,
Surface integrals and Volume integrals, Gauss divergence theorem, Green’s theorem ,
Stokes’ theorem (theorems without proof).
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – by B. S. Grewal,Khanna publishers
2. Calculus and Analytic Geometry by Thomas and Finney, 9th edition; Publisher:
Pearson Education.
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition; Publisher:
John Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter ‘O’ Neil, publisher: Cengage
Learning .
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa
Publications
26
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech, I sem L T/P/D C
Common to all branches 3 0 3
(5BS21) ENGINEERING PHYSICS
Course Objectives:
• To supplement and enhance the knowledge of basic concepts in physics
essentially required in the study of interaction of light with matter and
behavior of a particle quantum mechanically.
• To Study and understand various phenomena of light- Interference,
Diffraction, Dispersion and total internal reflection.
• To learn and enhance the basic concepts in physics required to deal with
large number of particles and behavior of an electron in metals.
• To understand the basic principles and working of lasers and optical fibers.
• To learn simple applications of these concepts and principles in engineering
and technology.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• realize influence of diffraction and resolvability in optical elements.
• recognize importance of interference in thin films.
• distinguish LASER light from ordinary light and describe propagation of light
through Optical fiber by Total Internal reflection.
• illustrate behavior of a particle in one dimensional potential box.
• understand behavior of electron in a periodic potential in real crystal and
classify Solids based on conduction.
UNIT I
INTERFERENCE:
Introduction, Superposition principle, Resultant amplitude, Coherence - Methods to
obtain coherent sources, Interference, Young’s Double Slit Experiment, interference
thin films by reflection, Newton’s rings Experiment-Formation of Rings and
Experimental Method, Characteristics of rings, Applications.
UNIT II
DIFFRACTION:
Introduction, Distinguish between Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction, diffraction at
single slit (Phasors approach). Diffraction at double slit, circular aperture, and multiple
slits (grating) ( Qualitative Approach)-Width of Principal Maxima and Dispersion,
Resolution of spectral lines, Rayleigh criterion, and resolving power of grating.
UNIT III
LASERS AND OPTICAL FIBERS:
Introduction, Characteristics of Lasers, Spontaneous and Stimulated Emission of
radiation, Meta stable state, population inversion, lasing action, Einstein’s coefficients
and relation between them, Ruby Laser, Helium-Neon Laser, Semiconductor Laser,
Principle of optical fiber and Properties, Acceptance angle and acceptance cone,
Numerical aperture, Types of fibers based on refractive index profiles, Qualitative
analysis of attenuation in optical fibers, Application of Lasers and Optical fibers.
27
UNIT IV
ELEMENTS OF QUANTUM MECHANICS:
Waves and particles, De Broglie hypothesis, Matter waves, Davisson and Germer
experiment, Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle- Applying it to Non existence of electron
in Nucleus and Single slit Experiment, Schrodinger Wave Equation – Wave function
and its Physical Significance, Particle in one dimensional potential box(wave functions,
probability densities and energy states), Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-
Dirac statistics (non-mathematical treatment).
UNIT V
ELECTRON THEORY OF METALS:
Energy levels in one dimension, Effect of temperature on the Fermi-Dirac distribution,
Electrical conductivity & Ohm’s law, Electrical Resistivity of Metals (Qualitative),
Electron in a periodic potential, Bloch Theorem, Kronig-Penney model (non-
mathematical treatment), Origin of energy band formation in solids, Classification of
materials into conductors, semiconductors & Insulators and Concept of effective mass
of an electron.
TEXT BOOKS:
(1) Physics vol.2, by Halliday, Resnick and Krane; John Wiley & Sons
(2) Engineering Physics by R.K.Gaur and S.L.Gupta; Dhanpat Rai and Sons
REFERENCES:
(1) Optics by Ghatak and Thyagarajan, Tata Mc Graw
(2) Concepts of Modern physics by Arthur Beiser, McGraw Hill Inc.
(3) Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel : John Wiley & Sons
(4) Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd.
(5) Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
28
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech - I Semester L T/P/D C
CE, ME & AE 3 0 3
(5BS31) CHEMISTRY OF ENGINEERING MATERIALS
Course Objectives:
• Classification and applications of abrasives and adhesives.
• Familiarity of the types and applications of refractories and ceramics.
• Examining the properties of lubricants and learning the mechanism of
lubrication.
• Knowledge of manufacturing of cement and its properties.
• Listing out various types of fuels and understanding the concept of calorific
values.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student will be able to,
• Formulate and infer the suitability of abrasives and adhesives in different
industries.
• Understand benefits of refractories and ceramics as heat resistant materials
in industries.
• Assess the quality of lubricants and their appropriate usage in machinery.
• Interpret the setting and hardening process of cement.
• Acquire the knowledge of efficiency of fuels and identify a better fuel source
of less pollution.
UNIT I
Engineering Materials
Abrasives - Introduction, classification and applications of natural abrasives (diamond,
quartz (SiO )) , synthetic abrasives ( silicon carbide, boron nitride).
2
Adhesives –Criteria of a good adhesive, classification and applications of
thermoplastic adhesives (cellulose and acrylics), thermosetting adhesives (phenol
formaldehyde and epoxy resins).
UNIT II
Refractories and Ceramics
Refractories: Definition; classification with examples; characteristics of a good
refractory; causes for the failure of a refractory material; properties of refractories -
refractoriness, RUL test, porosity.
Ceramics: Introduction; classification- whiteware, stoneware, earthenware and their
applications, Glazing- definition, liquid glazing.
UNIT III
Lubricants
Criteria of a good lubricant; classification of lubricants (lubricating oils, greases or
semisolid lubricants, solid lubricants). Mechanism of lubrication-fluid film lubrication,
boundary lubrication, and extreme pressure lubrication; Properties of lubricants –
definition and significance of viscosity, cloud point, pour point, flash & fire point,
mechanical stability, oiliness, and carbon residue.
29
Biodegradable lubricants: classification, advantages and disadvantages of
biodegradable lubricants.
UNIT IV
Cement
Types of cement; chemical constituents and composition of Portland cement;
manufacturing methods of Portland cement (wet and dry processes). Setting &
Hardening of cement (reactions); decay of cement; cement concrete - RCC.
UNIT V
Energy sources
Fuels - classification (solid, liquid, gaseous), calorific value of fuel (HCV, LCV), Dulong
formula- numericals, Solid fuels – coal – analysis – proximate and ultimate analysis
and their significance (no numerical problems), Liquid fuels – petrol – cracking, need
for cracking, types of cracking( thermal and catalytric cracking), fluid bed catalytic
cracking, synthetic petrol by Fischer- Tropsch’s process. Knocking- octane number,
cetane number. Gaseous fuels- natural gas, LPG, CNG (composition and uses).
Biofuels- characteristics, biodiesel - transesterification, properties and applications.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, and Jyotsna Cherukuri;
Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain & Monica Jain; Publisher: Dhanpatrai.
REFERENCES
1. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna; McGraw Hill Edu.Pvt.Ltd.
2. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Shashi Chawla Publisher: Dhanpat rai
&Co
3. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi, Cengage
Learning Publications.
4. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, Sulochana
Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
30
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech CE, ME & AME - I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5IT01) C PROGRAMMING AND DATA STRUCTURES
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Discuss the history of computers and fundamentals of problem solving using
structured programming
• Identify the appropriate decision making and branching statements to solve the
problem
• Understand different derived data types
• Identify basic and advanced sorting and searching techniques and understand
the operations of linear data structures
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply knowledge of mathematics, science engineering and technology in
problems solving using C programming Language
• Analyze structured programming methods, techniques and standard library
functions
• Understand and relate different derived data types and able to choose the
loops and decision making statements to solve the given problem
• Identify trade-offs involved in choosing static versus dynamic data structures
and also implementation of stacks, queues and linked lists and different
searching and sorting techniques for a given application
UNIT – I
Introduction to Computers-Computer Systems, Computing Environments, Computer
languages, creating and running programs, Software Development Methods.
UNIT – II
Algorithm / pseudo code, flowchart, program development steps, structure of C
program, identifiers, basic data types, Constants, variables, operators, expressions,
precedence and order of evaluation.
Input-output statements, if and switch statements, loops- while, do-while and for
statements, break, continue, goto and labels, example C programs.
UNIT - III
Functions, basic concepts, parameter passing, storage classes, scope rules, user
defined functions, standard library functions, recursive functions, example C programs.
Arrays- Basic concepts, one-dimensional and two-dimensional arrays, Character array,
string handling functions, example C programs.
31
UNIT - IV
Derived types- structures- Basic concepts, nested structures, arrays of structures,
program examples.
pointers- Basic concepts, pointers and functions, pointers and strings, pointers and
arrays, pointers and structures, self referential structures, example C programs.
UNIT - V
Searching - Linear and binary search methods, sorting - Bubble sort, selection sort,
Insertion sort.
Introduction to data structures, Dynamic memory allocation, stacks and queues-
implementation using arrays.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Computer science, A structured programming approach using C, B.A. Forouzan
and R.F. Gilberg, Third edition, Thomson.
2. C Programming and Data structures, E.Balagurusamy, TMH.
REFERENCES
1. Data Structures Using C - A.S.Tanenbaum, Y. Langsam, and M.J. Augenstein,
PHI/Pearson Education.
2. Programming in C - Stephen G. Kochan, III Edition, Pearson Eductaion.
3. Data Structures and Program Design in C, R.Kruse, C.L. Tondo, BP Leung, Shashi
M, Second Edition, Pearson Education.
4. The C Programming Language, B.W. Kernighan, Dennis M.Ritchie, PHI/Pearson
Education
32
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech - I Sem L T/P/D C
CE, ME & AME 3 1 4
(5CE01) ENGINEERING MECHANICS – I
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Understand and analyse the forces and reactions for equilibrium
• Discuss various types of friction, laws of friction and analyse body/bodies
lying on rough planes
• Distinguish between centroid, centre of mass and centre of gravity
• Understand the concept of area moment of inertia and mass moment of
inertia about any axes
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• State and explain fundamental laws and concepts of Engineering mechanics
for statics
• Apply concepts of Mechanics to Engineering Applications
• Analyse the systems which are at rest for equilibrium conditions
• Solve the numerical problems related to friction, centroid and moment of
Inertia
UNIT-I
Forces
Introduction to Engineering Mechanics – Basic Concepts - Classification of a force system -
Parallelogram law of forces - Triangle law of forces - Polygon law of forces – law of
transmissibility of forces – Principle of superposition - Lami’s theorem - Free Body Diagram
– Resultant – Equilibrant - Resultant of coplanar concurrent forces - Equilibrium of coplanar
concurrent forces.
UNIT-II
Moments
Moment of a force - Varignon’s principle - Parallel forces - Resultant of parallel forces –
Couple - Moment of a couple about any point lying in the plane - Resolution of a force into a
force-couple and vice-versa - Resultant of coplanar non-concurrent forces - Equilibrium of
coplanar non-concurrent forces –Types of supports - Support reactions
UNIT - III
Friction
Types of Friction - Limiting Friction - Laws of Friction - Equilibrium of bodies on rough
horizontal and inclined planes- Equilibrium of connected bodies on rough horizontal and
inclined planes - Ladder friction – wedge friction – screw friction
UNIT – IV
Centroid, Centre of Mass, Centre of Gravity
Centroid - Centroids of simple figures (from basic principles) – Centroids of composite
figures and built-up sections - Centre of mass of simple bodies - Centre of gravity of simple
bodies - Centre of gravity of composite bodies - Pappu’s theorems.
33
UNIT – V
Area moment of Inertia
Introduction- Inertia - Inertia of areas - Rotation of areas - Radius of gyration - Polar moment
of inertia - Parallel axis theorem - Perpendicular axis theorem - Moments of inertia of simple
figures and composite figures.
Mass Moment of Inertia
Moment of inertia of Masses – Significance - Rotation of mass - Mass moment of inertia of
simple bodies.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering Mechanics by S.P. Timoshenko, D.H.Young & J.V.Rao, Tata
McGraw Hill Publishers,4th Edition,2010
2. Singer’s Engineering Mechanics by K. Vijaya Kumar Reddy & J. Suresh kumar
,B.S Publishers,3rd Edition,2011
REFERENCES
1. Engineering Mechanics by S.S. Bhavikatti, Newage International Publishers,2012
2. Engineering Mechanics (Statics) by J.L.Meriam & L.G.Kraige, Wiley Publishers, 6th
Edition,2006
3. Engineering Mechanics by A.K.Tayal, Umesh Publications,13th Edition,2010
4. Engineering Mechanics by R.K. Rajput, laxmi Publications,1998
34
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech -CE I Sem L T /P/ D C
0 6 3
(5CE51) GEOMETRICAL DRAWING-I
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Learn basic Auto Cad skills.
• Know Principles of Engineering drawing.
• Differentiate various curves used in engineering practice & types of scales.
• Learn and draw orthographic projections and projection of planes & solids.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Draw two dimensional drawings using Auto Cad.
• Apply the principles of engineering drawing.
• Use various engineering scales, various curves in drawings.
• Generate orthographic projections of planes and solids.
UNIT- I
Introduction to Auto CAD
Introduction to Engineering Drawing
Principles of engineering graphics and their significance - Drawing instruments and their
uses - Different types of scales, scale of chords.
UNIT – II
Curves Used In Engineering Practice & Their Construction
Circle, Ellipse, Parabola, Hyperbola & Rectangular hyperbola-general method and by any
other appropriate method.
UNIT – III
Orthographic Projection
Introduction – First angle projection – Third angle projection.
Projection of Points. Projection of straight lines inclined to both planes by first angle
projection method -True lengths & traces.
UNIT- IV
Projection of Planes
Projection of plane figures inclined to both planes - Auxiliary Projections.
UNIT- V
Projection of Solids
Projection of regular solids inclined to both planes – Auxiliary Projections.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering drawing by N.D.Bhatt - Charotar Publishing House Pvt.Ltd., 53rd
Edition, 2014.
2. Engineering Drawing by Basant Agrawal – McGraw hill education (India) Pvt. Ltd.,
1st edition, 2013.
REFERENCES
1. Engineering Drawing with Auto CAD by K.Venkata Reddy - B.S Publications, 4th
edition, 2009.
35
2. Engineering Drawing by M. B. Shah, Pearson Education India, 2nd edition, 2009.
3. Engineering Drawing and Graphics by K Venugopal, New Age International, 5th
edition, 2004.
4. Engineering Drawing with AutoCAD by B V R Gupta, IK International Pvt. Ltd., 2nd
edition, 2009.
36
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech, I Sem L T/P/D C
CE, ME & AME 0 3 2
(5IT51) C PROGRAMMING AND DATA STRUCTURES LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Understand the basic structure of C programming
• List different decision making and branching statements and their usage in analyzing
problems
• Understand the usage of derived data types to solve the problems
• Apply different searching and sorting methods and implement linear data structures
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply mathematics, science, engineering and technology in problem solving using
C programming language.
• Design c programs using different c tokens .
• Experiment appropriate decision making statements and derived data types to
solve a given problem.
• Analyze and implement linear data structures, and differentiate the various
searching and sorting techniques.
Week 1
1. Write a program that reads three different integers from the keyboard and prints –
sum, average, product, smallest, largest of the numbers.
2. Write a program that reads two integers and prints – difference, quotient and
remainder
3. WAP that reads two integers and determines whether the first is a multiple of the
other
Week 2
1. Write a C program to find the sum of individual digits of a positive integer.
2. Write a C program for Fibonacci sequence.
3. Write a C program to generate the first n terms of the sequence.
4. Write a C program to generate all the prime numbers between 1 and n,
where n is a value supplied by the user.
Week 3
1. Write a C program to calculate the following Sum:
Sum=1-x2/2! +x4/4!-x6/6!+x8/8!-x10/10!
2. Write a C program toe find the roots of a quadratic equation.
Week 4
1. Write C programs that use both recursive and non-recursive functions
i) To find the factorial of a given integer.
ii) To find the GCD (greatest common divisor) of two given integers.
iii) To solve Towers of Hanoi problem.
Week 5
1. Write a C program, which takes two integer operands and one operator from the
user,
37
performs the operation and then prints the result. (Consider the operators +,-,*, /,
% and use Switch Statement)
2. Write a program to print a given number [0-1000] in words. For example, 123 as
One Hundred and Twenty Three
Week 6
1. WAP to check whether a given number is an Armstrong, Palindrome, Perfect,
Prime, or a Fibonacci Number
2. Write a C program to find both the largest and smallest number in a list of integers
Week 7
1. Write a C program to generate Pascal’s triangle.
2. Write a C program to construct a pyramid of numbers.
Week 8
1. Write a C program to calculate
i) Minimum and maximum of an 1-d array
ii) Sorting an array
iii) Searching an array
Week 9
1. Write a C program that uses functions to perform the following:
i) Addition of Two Matrices
ii) Multiplication of Two Matrices
iii) To find the determinant of a 3 by 3 matrix
Week 10
1. Write a C program that uses functions to perform the following operations using
Pointers:
i) To insert a sub-string in to a given main string from a given
position.
ii) To delete n Characters from a given position in a given string.
iii) To reverse a given string
Week 11
1. Write C Programs to implement Structures and Nested structures with suitable
Examples
(Students has to practice with relevant examples taught in the class room)
Week 12
1. Write C Programs using Pointers and Pointer Arithmetic operations
2. Write C Programs using Pointers to structures, Pointers to Arrays and
Pointers to strings
(Students has to practice with relevant examples taught in the class room)
Week 13
1. Write C Programs to implement the following sorting algorithms
a. Bubble Sort b. Selection sort c. Insertion Sort
Week 14
1. Write a C program to implement STACK and QUEUE operations using Arrays
Week 15
1. Write a C program to implement the following searching techniques.
38
a. Linear Search b. Binary Search
Week 16 Lab Internal Examination
TEXT BOOKS
1. Computer science, A structured programming approach using C, B.A. Forouzan and R.F.
Gilberg, Third edition, Thomson.
2. C Programming and Data structures, E.Balagurusamy, TMH.
REFERENCES
1. Data Structures Using C - A.S.Tanenbaum, Y. Langsam, and M.J. Augenstein,
PHI/Pearson Education.
2. Programming in C - Stephen G. Kochan, III Edition, Pearson Eductaion.
3. Data Structures and Program Design in C, R.Kruse, C.L. Tondo, BP Leung, Shashi M,
Second Edition, Pearson Education.
39
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech CE-I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS25) ENGINEERING PHYSICS AND ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
ENGINEERING PHYSICS LAB LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
• To practically learn interaction of light with matter through physical
phenomena like interference, diffraction and dispersion.
• To understand the periodic motion and formation of standing waves and to
know the characteristics of the capacitors and resistors.
• To compare the experimental results with the class room learning.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Demonstrate the optical phenomena with formation of Newton Rings, and
formation of spectra with a grating and a prism.
• Illustrate periodic motion by measuring rigidity modulus of a material and
formation of standing waves by Melde’s apparatus and also discharging of a
capacitor.
• Correlate the experimental results with the class room learning.
Any Eight Experiments from the following:
1. Dispersive Power of the material of a Prism using Spectrometer
2. Diffraction Grating (both with Laser and non laser source)
3. Single Slit with laser light
4. Newton Rings
5. Finding thickness of a thin wire or sheet by forming a wedge shaped film
6. Energy gap of a semiconductor material
7. To determine the rigidity modulus of material of a wire
8. Melde’s experiment
9. Sonometer Experiment
10. AC frequency by sonometer method
11. Numerical Aperture and Acceptance angle of an optical fiber cable
12. Attenuation and Bending losses in optical fiber
13. Stewart Gee’s experiment
14. Characteristics of LED/Laser Diode.
15. Photo cell/ Solar Cell
16. C circuit
REFERENCES:
1. Essential Practical Lab Manual in Physics: by Dr.P.Raghavendra
Rao,P.Pavankumar and B.Ashok (inhouse document)
2. Engineering Physics Practicals by B.Srinivasa Rao, V.K.V.Krishna and
K.S.Rudramamba, University Science Press, New Delhi
40
ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
Pre-requisites: Basic knowledge of Volumetric Analysis and Mathematics.
Course Objectives:
• Familiarize the preparation of solutions and operation of instruments
• Conduct of experiment, collection and analyzing the data
• Summarizing the data and find the applicability of the experiment to common
society
Course Outcomes:
• Understanding the preparation of standard solutions and handling of
instruments
• Knowledge of experimentation and recording the data
• Interpretation of results to real world scenario
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
1. Titrimetry: Estimation of hardness of water by EDTA method.
2. Conductometry: Conductometric titration of acid vs base.
3. Colorimetry: Estimation of copper by colorimetric method.
4. pH metry: Determination of pH of sample solutions.
5. Determination of viscosity of sample oil by Redwood Viscometer.
6. Preparations: Soap and Nanoparticles.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by S.K.Bhasin and Sudha Rani;
Publisher: Dhanpat Rai.
2. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari and Jyotsna
Cherukuri; Publisher: VGS Book Links.
41
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year II Sem, B.Tech– Common to all branches L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS12) ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS AND LAPLACE TRANSFORMS
Course prerequisites: Differentiation and Integration
Course Objectives:
• Understand the methods of solving first order differential equations and learn
about its applications to basic engineering problems.
• Understand the methods of solving higher order differential equations and
learn about its applications to basic engineering problems.
• Understand the method of series solutions of second order ordinary
differential equations.
• Apply the convolution theorem to evaluate Inverse Laplace Transform of the
functions.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Solve the problems in first order differential equations.
• Solve the problems in second order differential equations.
• Obtain the series solutions of second order ordinary differential equations.
• Learn Laplace Transform as a tool.
UNIT I
ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS OF FIRST ORDER AND THEIR
APPLICATIONS
Differential equations of first order and first degree - Exact differential equation , Linear
and Bernoulli differential equation , Applications of differential equations of first order
and first degree - Newton’s law of cooling, Law of natural growth and decay,
Orthogonal trajectories and basic circuits(L-R Circuits, R-C Circuits).
UNIT II
DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS OF HIGHER ORDER AND THEIR APPLICATIONS
Differential equations of higher order - homogeneous and non-homogenous type,
differential equations of second order and higher order with constant coefficients with
ax
right hand side term of the type e sin (ax), cos (ax), polynomials in x, e
42
a x
V(x),
x V(x) and method of variation of parameters, applications to spring mass system
,Simple harmonic motion and L-C-R Circuits.
UNIT III
DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS WITH VARIABLE COEFFICIENTS
Euler-Cauchy’s 2nd order differential equations, Series solutions of second order
Ordinary Differential Equations, Regular point, Regular singular point, Frobineous
Method.
UNIT IV
LAPLACE TRANSFORMS
Existence condition, Laplace transform of Elementary functions, Properties of Laplace
transforms, Laplace transform of special functions (Unit step function, Dirac delta
function and Periodic function).
UNIT V
INVERSE LAPLACE TRANSFORMS
Inverse Laplace transform of functions using partial fractions, Convolution theorem
(statement only). Solving linear differential equations and Integro-differential eqations
using Laplace transform.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – B. S. Grewal,Khanna publishers.
2. A First Course in Differential Equations by Dennis G. Zill; Publisher: Brooks
Cole publiers.
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher:
John Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher:
Cengage Learning
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa
Publications.
43
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year II Sem, B.Tech L T/P/D C
Common for CE, ME and AME 3 0 3
(5BS22) PHYSICS OF MATERIALS
Course Objectives:
• To learn basic structures and classifications of solids.
• To study nature of dielectric, magnetic and size dependent properties of
materials.
• To visualize different kinds of materials in engineering and technology.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Identify different types of crystals, their defects and importance of X-ray studies in
crystals.
• recognize materials’ magnetic, dielectric and size dependent behavior.
• show case some applications of crystals and different kinds of materials in
engineering.
UNIT I
CRYSTAL STRUCTURES:
Space lattice, Unit cell, Lattice parameters, Crystal systems, Bravais lattice, Atomic radius,
Co-ordination number, Structures and Packing fractions of Simple Cubic, Body Centered
Cubic, Face Centered Cubic, Hexagonally closed packed & Diamond Cubic Crystals.
BONDING IN SOLIDS:
Force and energy between two approaching atoms, primary and secondary bonds, binding
energy and cohesive energy, Madelung constant, cohesive energy and Madelung constant
for NaCl crystal
UNIT II
DIRECTIONS, PLANES AND X-RD:
Miller Indices for Crystal planes and directions, Inter planar spacing of orthogonal crystal
systems, Diffraction of X-rays by crystal planes and Bragg’s law, Laue method, Powder
method.
DEFECTS IN SOLIDS:
Imperfections in crystals, Point defects (Vacancies, Interstitial and Impurities) Schottky and
Frenkel defects (with mathematical treatment), Line imperfections, Edge and Screw
dislocation, Burger vector, Surface defects and volume defects (Qualitative Treatment).
UNIT III
MAGNETIC PROPERTIES OF MATERIALS:
Permeability, Field intensity, magnetic field induction, Magnetization and Magnetic
susceptibility – Origin of magnetic moment, Bohr magneton – Classification of magnetic
materials (Dia, Para and Ferro)- Domain theory of ferromagnetism, Hysteresis curve – Soft
and Hard magnetic materials – Ferrites and their applications.
UNIT IV
DIELECTRIC PROPERTIES:
Electric dipole, Dipole moment, Dielectric constant, Electronic, Ionic and Orientation
Polarization – Calculation of Polarizibilities, Internal fields, Claussius – Mossotti
equation,Piezo and Ferro electricity
44
SUPERCONDUCTORS:
Experimental survey and superconductivity phenomenon, Meissner effect, Critical fields and
Persistent currents, Type I and Type II superconductors, London equations, flux
quantization, Applications of Superconductors.
UNIT V
SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY OF NANOMATERIALS:
Work function, Thermionic emission, Contact Potential, Electron Microscope, Scanning
Tunneling Microscope. Origin of nano science, (Basic principles of Nanoscience &
Technology) surface to volume ratio, quantum confinement, Fabrication of nano materials,
Bottom up fabrication: sol-gel & combustion methods, Top down fabrication: CVD& PVD
methods, Applications of nanotechnology.
TEXT BOOKS:
(1) Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel (Publishers: John Wiley &
Sons)
(2) Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd
REFERENCES
1. Solid State Physics by A.J.Dekker; Macmillan Publishers India Lt.
2. Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
3. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
4. Engineering Physics by M.R.Srinivasan, New Age Publishers
5. Solid State Physics by M.A. Wahab.
45
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech (Common to all branches) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS01) ENGLISH
Introduction
This is the age of information and communication technologies. Engineers and technical
professionals need to convey technical information in English for various purposes.
Besides learning general English as an international language, engineering students need to
be equipped with adequate writing ability so that they can communicate technical information
clearly on at least a basic level. A good English writing proficiency can be a contributing
factor to professional recognition and career prospects. This course teaches those writing
strategies that scientists, engineers, and others will need in order to write successfully on the
job. It initiates the students into Technical Writing. The purposes of technical writing are to
inform and persuade. This program aims to train students in writing clear, concise and
effective English and also develop their reading skills.
This Syllabus is therefore, a Pragmatic English Writing and Reading Program for
engineering students with intermediate proficiency. The program covers a syllabus outline
and instructional approaches on basic writing and reading skills with particular reference to
technical writing.
Course Objectives:
• To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for academic writing and speaking.
• To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns, reading
techniques and grammatical constructions required in technical writing as well as
oral communication.
• To acquaint the students with the writing process in preparation for academic and
workplace writing.
• Equip the students with the concept of coherence and cohesion for meaningful
and coherent communication.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
• Comprehend technical writing produced in the engineering profession
• Understand the writing process and create logical paragraphs
• Use infrastructural patterns in writing and speaking
• Students communicate coherently orally and in writing.
Methodology
A Task-based, process oriented methodology will be used by the teachers to give a practical
orientation to the teaching of language. An inductive approach will be used to demonstrate
the use of language in context. This should enable the students to internalize the language
structures and vocabulary used in context. Students will be exposed to numerous examples
and ample practice will be given in the contextual use of language structures.
Unit I : Review of Grammar
i) Common Errors v) Use of Articles and Prepositions
ii) Subject-Verb Agreement vi) Conjunctions
iii) Adverbs vii) pronoun reference
iv) Transitional elements
46
Unit II : Prose 1
• Heaven’s Gate by Pico Iyer
• The Connoisseur by Nergis Dalal
Unit III : Reading and Writing Skills
• Reading Comprehension -- Skimming & scanning
• Reading Comprehension -- Intensive & extensive reading
• Paragraph Writing
• Letter Writing
• Memo Writing
Unit IV : Prose 2
• The Cuddalore Experience by Anu George
• The Odds Against Us by Satyajit Ray
Unit V : Writing Skills
1. Comparison and Contrast Pattern
2. Cause and Effect Pattern
3. Classification
4. Analogy (Introductory Level)
5. Problem-Solution Pattern
TEXT BOOKS
• Enjoying Everyday English by A. Ramakrishna Rao
• Effective Technical Communication by Ashraf Rizvi
• Technical Writing Process and Product by Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson
3rd edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
References
• M. Raman and S. Sharma, 2004; Technical Communication : Principles and
Practices, OUP, (Indian Edition)
• Blanton, L.L. 1993; Composition Practice, Book 4 ,Second Edition, Heinle & Heinle
Publishers, pp. 54
• Georges, T.M. 1996; A course in Analytical Writing for Science and Technology,
http://www.mspiggy.etl.noaa.gov/write/
47
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech - II Semester L T/P/D C
Common to all branches 3 0 3
(5BS32) ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
Course Objectives:
• Understanding the concept of generating electricity by batteries.
• Conceptual knowledge of corrosion science.
• Acquiring the knowledge of preparation, properties and usage of polymers.
• Applying the concept of hardness to analyze various boiler troubles in the steam
generation.
• Familiarize the features of carbon nanotubes, composites and self- healing
materials.
Course outcomes:
After the completion of the course student will be able to,
• Interpret the chemical applications of the various types of batteries used in the
present day world.
• Acquire the knowledge of corrosion for protecting structures and safeguarding the
economy.
• Evaluate the suitability of various polymers for different applications.
• Analyze and compare the different softening techniques of water.
• Summarize the applications of carbon nanotubes, composites and self- healing
materials.
UNIT I
Batteries and Fuel cells
Electrochemistry-definition, types of cells- differences between electrolytic and
electrochemical cells, conditions of reversibility, principle of batteries, Primary cells-(Dry cell,
Mercury battery) and secondary cells -lead-acid cell; Ni-Cd cell; lithium- ion cells
(intercalated); Fuel cells : methanol – oxygen fuel cell, advantages of fuel cells; Solar cells -
principle and applications.
UNIT II
Corrosion and its control
Introduction; Causes and effects of corrosion; Theories of corrosion – chemical and
electrochemical corrosion (reactions); Types of corrosion ( Differential aeration corrosion:
pitting, crevice and waterline corrosion, Differential metal corrosion: galvanic corrosion) ;
Factors affecting corrosion – nature of metal( galvanic series; passivity; purity of metal;
nature of oxide film; nature of corrosion product), and nature of environment (effect of
temperature; effect of pH; humidity; formation of oxygen concentration cells)
Corrosion control methods – cathodic protection-sacrificial anode and impressed current
cathodic protection.
Surface coatings –differences between galvanizing and tinning; cladding; electroplating
(copper plating), paints - constituents and functions.
UNIT III
Polymers
Plastics - Thermoplastic resins, and Thermosetting resins, fabrication of plastics –
compression, injection. Preparation, properties, and engineering applications of PE, PVC,
Teflon, Bakelite, Nylon and Kevlar.
48
Rubber
Processing and vulcanization, preparation, properties, and engineering applications of Buna-
s; Butyl rubber; Thiokol rubber.
UNIT IV
Water and its Treatment
Introduction; Hardness - causes, expression of hardness, units, types of hardness, numerical
problems. Estimation of temporary & permanent hardness of water by EDTA method (no
numerical problems). Boiler troubles - scale & sludge formation, caustic embrittlement,
boiler corrosion, priming & foaming. Softening of water by zeolite and ion exchange process
(no numerical problems), Desalination processes - reverse osmosis
UNIT V
Smart materials
Nanomaterials -Introduction; preparation and applications of nanomaterials with special
reference to carbon nanotubes.
Composites-Need for composites, classification based on reinforcing material (Fiber
reinforced composites), and applications of composites.
Self-healing materials- Definition, features, principle of self-healing materials and their
applications.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna Cherukuri;
Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain & Monica Jain, Publisher: Dhanpatrai Publishing
Company.
REFERENCES
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara & Mukkanti; Publisher: S.Chand &
Co.
2. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna
3. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, Sulochana
Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
4. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi ,Cengage Learning
Publications.
49
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech - II Sem L T/P/D C
CE, ME & AME 3 1 4
(5CE02) ENGINEERING MECHANICS – II
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Understand the assumptions in the analysis of trusses and list the types of
trusses.
• Understand the principle of virtual work and its applications.
• Distinguish between statics and dynamics & kinematics and kinetics
• Explain the work-energy principle and impulse-momentum principle.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• State and explain concepts of Engineering mechanics for Dynamics
• Apply concepts of dynamics to Engineering Applications
• Analyse the systems which are in motion for equilibrium conditions
• Solve the numerical problems related to dynamics problems
UNIT – I
Trusses
Types of frames – Analysis of pin jointed frames – Assumptions - Method of Joints - Method
of Sections - Force table - Cantilever Trusses - Trusses with one end hinged and the other
freely supported on rollers carrying horizontal or inclined loads.
UNIT – II
Virtual work
Concept of virtual work - Principle of virtual work - Application of principle of virtual work to
beams - ladders and framed structures
UNIT – III
Kinematics
Kinematics of particles – Kinematics of Rectilinear motion – Kinematics of Curvilinear motion
– Projectiles – Kinematics of rigid bodies about a fixed axis
UNIT – IV
Kinetics
Kinetics of particles – Newton’s Second Law – Differential equations of rectilinear and
curvilinear motion – Dynamic equilibrium – Inertia force - D’ Alembert’s Principle applied for
rectilinear and curvilinear motion - Kinetics of rigid bodies
UNIT – V
Work–Energy, Impulse–Momentum
Work of a force - Principle of Work and Energy - Application of principle of Work-Energy -
Impulse-Momentum Principle, Application of Impulse - Momentum principle to connected
bodies
.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering Mechanics by S.P.Timoshenko, D.H.Young & J.V.Rao, Tata McGraw
Hill Publishers,4th Edition,2010
50
2. Singer’s Engineering Mechanics by K. Vijaya Kumar Reddy & J. Suresh kumar
,B.S Publishers,3rd Edition,2011
REFERENCES
1. Engineering Mechanics by S.S. Bhavikatti, Newage International Publishers,2012
2. Engineering Mechanics (Dynamics) by J.L.Meriam & L.G.Kraige, Wiley Publishers,
6th
Edition,2006
3. Engineering Mechanics by A.K.Tayal, Umesh Publications,13th Edition,2010
4. Engineering Mechanics by R.K. Rajput, laxmi Publications,1998
51
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech CE - II Sem L T/P/D C
Common to all branches 3 0 3
(5CE03) ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Recognize the importance of environment and ecosystem
• Identify & Analyze human activities and its impact on environment.
• List and understand about the importance of natural resources, Biodiversity &
effect of environment pollution
• Understand about environmental regulations ,economy and environment
interaction
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge about importance of environment & ecosystem
• Develop skills in understanding of various environmental problems
• Find the solution and strategies to protect the Environment
• List & Distinguish various organizations, regulations for environment protection
UNIT-I
Environmental Studies:
Introduction, Definition, scope and importance. Ecosystems: Introduction, types,
characteristic features, structure and functions of ecosystems. Bio-geo-chemical cycle,
Classification of Ecosystem.
Bio-diversity and its conservation- Value of bio-diversity, Bio-geographical classification
of India – India as a mega diversity habitat, Threats to bio-diversity –Hot-spots, habitat loss,
poaching of wild life, loss of species, seeds, etc. Conservation of bio-diversity – In-situ and
Ex-situ conservation.
UNIT-II
Natural Resources: classification of Resources, Land resources, Common property
resources, Land degradation, Soil erosion and desertification, Effects of modern agriculture,
fertilizer –pesticide problems, Forest resources - Use and over-exploitation - food resources,
food miles.
Mining and dams – benefits & effects, Water resources, Use and over - utilization of
surface and groundwater, Floods, droughts, Water logging and salinity, Conflicts over Water,
Energy resources.
UNIT-III
Environmental pollution and its control: Classification of pollution and pollutants, Air
pollution, Causes, Effects, Control measures, ambient air quality standards, water pollution
causes, effects, control measures, water quality standards, Marine pollution causes, effects
& control measures, noise pollution causes, effects and control measures, land pollution
causes, effects and control measures, solid waste management, e-waste management.
UNIT-IV
Global environmental problems and global efforts: Nuclear hazards, Nuclear Pollution,
Global warming, Acid rains, ozone layer depletion, over population, hazardous waste. Clean
development mechanism, green building, carbon credits, carbon trading.
52
International Conventions/protocols: UNEP, UNFCC, Earth summit, Kyoto protocol,
Montreal protocol and Stockholm declaration.
UNIT-V
Environmental policy, legislation, rules and regulations : National Environmental Policy
Environmental Protection act, Legal aspects Air (Prevention anc Control of pollution ) Act-
1981, Water( Prevention and Control of pollution ) Act-1974, Water pollution Cess Act-1977,
Forest Conservation Act, Municipal solid waste management and handling rules, biomedical
waste management and handling rules, hazardous waste management and handling rules .
Economy and Environment, The economy and environment interaction, Economics of
development, preservation and Conservation, Sustainability: theory and practices.
Environmental Impact Assessment, Rain water harvesting, cloud seeding and watershed
management.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Environmental Science by Y.Anjaneyulu, B S Publications, 2004.
2. Environmental studies by Deeksha dave, Cengage learning India Pvt. Ltd, 1st edition,
2011.
3. Environmental Science and Technology by M. Anji Reddy, B S Publications, 2010
REFERENCES
1. Environmental Studies for UG Courses, Bharucha Erach, UGC Publications, Delhi, 2004.
2. Environmental Encyclopedia by Cunningham, W.P., et al., Jaico Publishing House,
Mumbai, 2003.
3. Environmental sciences and Engineering by P.Venugopal Rao, PHI Learning Pvt. Ltd.,
53
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 6 3
(5CE52) GEOMETRICAL DRAWING-II
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Learn Sections and Sectional views of different solids.
• Differentiate Orthographic projections and Isometric Projections.
• Learn and draw Perspective projections of planes & solids.
• Know Sign conventions of different materials used in Civil Engineering Construction.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Draw Sectional views of different solids.
• Practice transformation of Orthographic projections to Isometric Projections.
• Generate Perspective projections of planes & solids.
• Identify different sign conventions of materials.
UNIT- I
Sections and Sectional Views of Solids
Sections of right regular solids-prisms, pyramids, cylinders and cones. Sections of solids cut
by planes parallel to one plane and perpendicular to other plane and Oblique plane.
UNIT- II
Isometric Projections
Principles of isometric projections, Isometric scale, isometric views, conventions, isometric
views of lines, planes, simple solids.
UNIT- III
Transformation of Projections
Conversion of isometric views to orthographic views-conventions and vice versa.
UNIT- IV
Perspective Projections
Perspective view of points, lines, plane figures and simple solids, vanishing point method &
visual ray method.
UNIT- V
Sign Conventions: Brick, Stone, Sand filling, Mortar, Concrete, Glass, Steel, Aluminium,
Earth, Rock and Timber, doors and windows.
Introduction to Line Plan and Sectional Plan of Buildings.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering drawing by N.D.Bhatt - Charotar Publishing House Pvt.Ltd., 53rd
Edition, 2014.
2. Engineering Drawing by Basant Agrawal – McGraw hill education (India) Pvt. Ltd.,
1st edition, 2013.
REFERENCES
1. Engineering Drawing with Auto CAD by K.Venkata Reddy - B.S Publications, 4th
edition, 2009.
54
2. Civil Engineering Drawing-I by N.Sreenivasulu, S.Rama Rao – Radiant Publishing
house, 2nd edition, 2013.
3. Engineering Drawing by M. B. Shah, Pearson Education India, 2nd edition, 2009.
4. Engineering Drawing and Graphics by K Venugopal, New Age International, 5th
edition, 2004.
55
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech (Common to EEE, ECE, EIE, CSE, IT,CE) L T/P/D C
T/P/D
0 3 2
(5ME53) IT AND ENGINEERING WORKSHOP 3
Course Prerequisites: basic knowledge about different Trades, computer hardware,
Operating System, different trades in mechanical engineering.
Course Objectives:
After going through this course the student will be able to
• To study/demonstrate the concepts of computer w.r.t. it’s hardware.
• To install the operating system and perform various tasks
• To conduct the experiments related to production engineering technology.
• To demonstrate the usage of power tools, CNC lathe and machine shop for
different exercises
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Identify, assemble and dissemble the given configuration of a computer.
• Install the operating system in the given configuration of a computer and execute
commands for LINUX Operating System
• To develop components using the techniques of carpentry, tin smithy, forging,
etc. listed in trades for exercises.
• To work out the given models in machine shop and CNC lathe.
IT WORKSHOP
1. Computer Hardware: Identification of Peripherals
2. Study of UPS and SMPS
3. Assembling and disassembling of a PC
4. Simple diagnostic exercises – Related to hardware
5. Installation of Windows Operating System
6. Installation of Linux Operating System
7. Linux Basic Commands
8. Simple diagnostic exercises –Related to Operating System
TEXTBOOKS:
1. IT Essentials PC Hardware and Software Companion Guide Third Edition by Davis
Anfinson and Ken Quamme CISC Press, Pearson Education.
2. PC Hardware and A+ Handbook – Kate J. Chase PHI (Microsoft)
ENGINEERING WORKSHOPTRADES FOR EXCERCISES
At least two exercises from each trade:
1. Carpentry
2. Tin-Smithy
3. Fitting
4. Welding
5. Electrical Wiring
TRADES FOR DEMONSTRATION and EXPOSURE:
1. Power tools in construction, wood working, electrical engineering and mechanical
engineering.
2. Machine shop.
56
3. CNC Lathe.
4. 3D Printing.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Workshop Manual by P.Kannaiah and K.L.Narayana; Publisher: Scitech.
57
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech (Common to all branches) L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS02) ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
The English Language Communication Skills Lab aims to provide practice in all the four
skills of LSRW, with a special emphasis on listening and speaking skills.
Course Objectives:
• Provide ample practice in LSRW skills and train the students in oral
presentations, public speaking, role play and situational dialogue.
• Provide practice in word usage, grammatical construction, structural patterns,
and improve comprehension abilities in the students.
• Train students to use neutral pronunciation through phonetic sounds,
symbols, stress and intonation.
• Enable students to transfer information from verbal to graphic representation
and vice versa.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
• Comprehend spoken and written discourse.
• Speak fluently with neutral pronunciation and exhibit interpersonal skills.
• Write accurately, coherently and lucidly making appropriate use of words
depending on context and present data clearly.
• Introduce oneself to people and be able to speak extempore.
UNIT I
Computer Aided Language Lab:
• Grammar : Nouns and Pronouns; Articles; The Present Tense
• Vocabulary: Lesson 1
• Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: Introduction of Self and others
UNIT II
Computer Aided Language Lab:
1. Grammar: Concord; Adjectives; The Past Tense
2. Vocabulary: Lesson 2
3. Listening Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Seeking and Giving Information, Giving and Taking
Instructions
UNIT III
Computer Aided Language Lab:
Grammar --- Adverbs, Conjunctions, Prepositions; The Future Tense
• Vocabulary: Lesson 3
• Telephoning Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Role Play/ Situational Dialogues
58
UNIT IV
Computer Aided Language Lab:
1. Grammar ---- Active and Passive Voice
2.Vocabulary: Lesson 4
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: i) JAM/ Short Talk ii) Information Transfer a)
Interpretation of Graph
UNIT V
Computer Aided Language Lab:
1. Introduction to Technical Writing
A. Definition of a Technical Term
B. Description of a Mechanism
C. Description of a Technical Process
2. Vocabulary: Lesson 5
Communication Skills Lab : Presentation Skills: Oral Presentation
Computer Aided Language Lab Requirements:
The English Language Lab shall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Lab for 30 students with 30 systems, one
master console, LAN facility and English language software for self- study by
learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Lab with conference tables and movable chairs
for 30 students and audio-visual aids with a P.A System, a T. V., a digital
stereo –audio & video system and a camcorder
• System Requirement (Hardware component):
Computer network with Lan with 30 multimedia systems with the following
specifications:
• P – IV Processor
• Speed – 2.8 GHZ
• RAM – 512 MB Minimum
• Hard Disk – 80 GB
• Headphones of High quality
iv) Suggested Resources:
Software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above may be
procured and used. Additionally, the abundantly available online resources may also be
used.
List of suggested software:
• Tense Busters (5 Levels)
• Walden Educare
• Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
• DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill
Practice.
• Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
• TOEFL & GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO & BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE
by CLIFFS)
59
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS16) PROBABILITY AND STATISTICS
Course prerequisites: Permutations and Combinations, Basic Statistics.
Course Objectives:
• Introduce the elementary ideas in basic probability.
• Develop the concept of Probability distributions
• Introduce the basic concepts in estimation theory and test of hypothesis
• Introduce the notion of time series and its utility in engineering applications
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Comprehend the concepts of sample spaces and Discrete and Continuous
distributions
• Apply the concepts of Sampling distributions, Point and interval estimation and
Hypothesis Testing to solve problems in engineering
• Analyze Paired data, Linear regression models and Correlation .
• Use Least squares method to compute time series
UNIT I
Probability and Distributions
Sample space and events, Probability- The axioms of probability, some elementary
theorems, conditional probability, Baye’s theorem. Random variables - discrete and
continuous. Distributions - Binomial, Poisson and Normal distributions–related properties.
UNIT II
Correlation and Regression
Coefficient of correlation, regression coefficient, the lines of regression, rank correlation
UNIT III
Sampling Distributions and Testing of Hypothesis
Sampling distributions, sampling distribution of means (σ known and unknown). Point
estimation, interval estimation.Tests of hypothesis - null hypothesis, alternate hypothesis,
type I, type II errors, critical region. Inferences concerning means and proportions- Large
samples- test of hypothesis for single mean and difference between the means. Test of
hypothesis for the proportions- single and difference between the proportions, confidence
interval for the mean and proportions.
UNIT IV
Tests of significance- Small samples
Tests of significance-t distributions, confidence interval for the t- distribution, F-distributions
and Chi square distributions.
UNIT V
Time Series analysis
Time series- utility of time series analysis, components of time series. Preliminary
adjustments before analyzing time series. Measurement of trend by the method of least
squares, method of moments.
60
TEXT BOOKS
1. Probability and Statistics for Engineers – Richard . A.Johanson, 1995, 5th Edition,
Prentice-Hall.
2. Statistical Methods - S.P. Gupta, (2011), Sultan Chand and sons.
REFERENCES
1. Applied Statistics for Engineers-Jay.L.Devore, Nicholas. R.Famum, Jimmy.A.Doi, 3rd
Edition, Cengage
2. The Analysis of Time Series -An Introduction:-Chris Chatfield, Sixth Edition, CRC Press.
61
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS41) BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Course Prerequisites: Basic knowledge of Economics
Course Objectives:
The objective of this course is to:
• To explain different forms of organizing private and public sector business
enterprises and to analyze the significance of Business Economics in solving the
problems of business enterprise. Also to define and analyze the concepts of
Demand, Elasticity of Demand and Demand Forecasting Methods.
• To analyze the various types of costs and to determine the level of output at which
there is neither profit nor loss. To estimate capital requirements and to describe
various sources of mobilizing funds. Also to identify least cost combinations of
inputs produce desired quantity of output.
• To describe the features of different market structure and pricing strategies.
• To explain the basic accounting concepts and conventions. To elaborate the
importance of finance function for evaluating the economic status of a business
unit.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course students should be able to:
• Select the suitable form of business organization which meets the requirement of
selected business also perform decision – making function effectively in an
uncertain frame work by applying concepts of Managerial Economics. Meet and
manipulate the demand efficiently and plan the future course of action.
• Apply right kind cost to reduce cost by paying attention towards the costs which
can be reduced. Take decision whether to buy or produce? Reduce the cost of
capital by selecting best source of fund mobilization and select best investment
opportunity which yields higher rate of return.
• Fix the right price which can best meets the predetermined objectives of the
business firm under different market conditions. Able to select best combination of
inputs to produce required quantity of output.
• Prepare books of accounts and know over all financial position of the business
enterprise which enables the concerned to take appropriate measures to improve
the situation. Also interpret the financial position from difference angles and
initiates the measures/ efforts in that direction.
UNIT I
Business and new economic environment
Characteristic features of business; Features and evaluation of sole proprietorship;
Partnership; Joint stock company; Public enterprises and their types; Changing business
environment in post- liberalization scenario.
UNIT II
Introduction to business economics, and demand analysis
Definition; Nature and scope of managerial economics - demand analysis determinants; Law
of demand and its exceptions.
Elasticity of demand and demand forecasting
Definition; Types; Measurement and significance of elasticity of demand; Demand
forecasting; Factors governing demand forecasting; Methods of demand forecasting - survey
62
methods, statistical methods, expert opinion method, test marketing, controlled experiments,
and judgmental approach to demand forecasting.
UNIT III
Cost analysis
Cost concepts - opportunity cost, fixed vs. variable costs, explicit costs vs. implicit costs, and
out of pocket costs vs. imputed costs; Break-even analysis (BEA) - determination of break-
even point (simple problems), managerial significance, and limitations of BEA.
Capital and capital budgeting
Capital and its significance; Types of capital; Estimation of fixed and working capital
requirements; Methods and sources of raising finance.
Nature and scope of capital budgeting; Features of capital budgeting proposals; Methods of
capital budgeting - payback method, accounting rate of return (ARR), and net present value
method (simple problems)
UNIT IV
Theory of production
Production function - isoquants and isocosts, least cost combination of inputs, and laws of
returns; Internal and external economics of scale.
Market structures
Types of competition; Features of perfect competition, monopoly, and monopolistic
competition; Price-output determination in case of perfect competition and monopoly.
Pricing policies and methods
Cost plus pricing; Marginal cost pricing; Sealed bid pricing; Going rate pricing, Limit pricing,
Market skimming pricing, Penetration pricing, Two-part pricing, Block pricing, Bundling
pricing, Peak load pricing, Cross subsidization.
UNI T V
Introduction to financial accounting
Double-entry book keeping; Journal; Ledger; Trial balance; Final accounts - trading account,
profit and loss account, and balance sheet with simple adjustments.
Financial analysis through ratios
Computation; Analysis and interpretation of liquidity ratios - current ratio, and quick ratio;
Activity ratios - inventory turnover ratio, and debtor turnover ratio; Capital structure ratios –
debt-equity ratio, and interest coverage ratio; Profitability ratios - gross profit ratio, net profit
ratio, operating ratio, P/E ratio, and EPs.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Managerial Economics and Financial Analysis by Aryasri, 2009; Publisher: Tata
McGraw Hill.
2. Managerial Economics by Varshney & Maheswari, 2009; Publisher: Sultan Chand.
REFERENCES
1. Financial Accounting for Management: An analytical perspective by Ambrish Gupta,
2010; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Managerial Economics by H. Craig Peterson & W. Cris Lewis; Publisher: Prentice Hall
of India.
63
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE04) BUILDING MATERIALS, CONSTRUCTION AND PLANNING
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• List the construction material.
• Explain different construction techniques
• Understand the building bye-laws
• Accentuate smart building materials
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Define the Basic terminology that is used in the industry
• Categorize different building materials , properties and their uses
• Understand the Prevention of damage measures and good workmanship
• Explain different building services
UNIT – I
Stones and bricks, tiles
Building stones – classification and quarrying – properties – structural requirements –
dressing. Bricks – composition of Brick earth – manufacture and structural requirements.
UNIT – II
Cement & admixtures, wood, aluminium, steel, building components
Ingredients of cement – manufacture – field & lab tests ;Admixtures – mineral & chemical
admixtures – uses, Wood – structure – types and properties – seasoning – defects; steel &
aluminum, Lintels, Arches, walls, stair cases – types of floors, types of roofs – flat, curved,
trussed; foundations – types; Damp Proof Course; Joinery – doors – windows
UNIT – III
Masonry and finishing, formwork
Brick masonry – types – bonds; Stone masonry – types; Composite masonry – brick – stone
masonry; concrete, reinforced brick.; Finishes – Plastering, pointing, painting, claddings –
types – tiles- ACP, Requirements – Standards – Scaffolding – Design; Shoring,
Underpinning.
UNIT – IV
Building services
Plumbing Services, Water Distribution, Sanitary – Lines & Fittings; Ventilators: Functional
requirements, systems of ventilators. Air conditioning – Essentials and Types; Acoustics –
characteristic – absorption – Acoustic design; Fire protection – Fire hazards
UNIT – V
Building planning
Principles of Building Planning, classification of buildings and Building bye laws – Building
Information System.
64
TEXT BOOKS
1. Building Materials by Duggal, New Age International, 5th edition, 2010.
2. Building Construction by B.C.Punmia, Ashok Kumar Jain and Arun Kumar Jain- Laxmi
Publications (P) ltd, New Delhi., 10th edition, 2008.
REFERENCES
1. Elements of Civil Engineering by Anurag Kandya, Charotar publishing house, 2nd
edition, 2011.
2. Building Construction-Arora & Bindra, Dhanpat Roy Publications, 5th edition, 2010
3. Building Construction by PC Varghese, PHI, 3rd edition, 2009.
4. Construction Technology by R.Chudley, 5th edition, 20011.
Codes:
1. National Building Code.
2. Building bye laws by State and Central governments and Municipal corporations.
65
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5CE05) FLUID MECHANICS
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Identify and obtain values of fluid properties and relationship between them.
• Explain the principles of continuity, momentum, and energy as applied to fluid motions.
• Apply these principles in the form of mathematical equations.
• To enable the students to solve these equations as applied to practical
fluid mechanics problems.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Define fundamental concepts of fluid mechanics as applied to civil engineering and
environmental problems.
• Discuss and derive the fundamental mathematical equations of fluid mechanics
• Solve the fluid mechanics problems as related to practical civil engineering problems
of water conveyance in pipes, orifices, mouth pieces, notches and weirs.
• Evaluate the various assumptions made in the application of equations to avoid the
common pitfalls
UNIT – I
Properties of Fluid
Introduction; Properties of Fluid; Units of measurement; Fluid Continuum; Newtonian and
Non-Newtonian fluids; Vapour pressure.
Fluid Statics
Variation of static pressure; Absolute and gauge pressure; Pressure measurement by
mechanical gauges and manometers; Pressure on plane surfaces and curved surfaces.
UNIT - II
Kinematics of Fluid Motion
Methods of describing fluid motion; Classification of flow; Steady, unsteady, uniform and
non-uniform flows; Laminar and turbulent flows; Three, two and one dimensional flows;
Irrotational and rotational flows; Streamline Pathline; Streakline; Equation for acceleration;
Convective acceleration; Continuity equation; Velocity potential and stream function;
Flownet; Vortex flow – free vortex and forced vertex flow.
Dynamics of Fluid Flow
Euler’s equation of motion; Bernoulli’s equation; Energy correction factor; Momentum
principle; Applications of momentum equation; Force exerted on a pipe bend.
UNIT - III
Flow Measurement
Measurement of velocity by Pilot tube. discharge through venture meter; discharge through
office meter; Discharge through flow nozzle. Flow through orifices; Determination of
coefficients for an orifice. Flow through rectangular; triangular and trapezoidal notches and
weirs; End contractions; Velocity of approach. Broad crested weir.
66
UNIT – IV
Analysis of Pipe Flow
Reynolds experiment – Classification of Laminar & Turbulent flows. Steady laminar flow
through circular pipes. Energy losses in pipelines: Minor losses, Darcy – weisbach equation;
Pipes in series and parallel; Total energy line and hydraulic gradient line.
UNIT – V
Theory of Boundary Layer
Boundary layer and its growth, Characteristics of Boundary layer along a thin flat plate,
Laminar and Turbulent Boundary layers (no derivations), Boundary layer Separation and
Control. Flow around submerged objects - Drag and Lift - Magnus effect.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Fluid Mechanics by Modi and Seth, Standard Book House, 2011.
2. Fluid Mechanics & Hydraulic Machines Problems and Solutions by K. Subramanya
McGraw Education. (I) Pvt. Ltd., 2011.
REFERENCES
1. Fluid Mechanics by V.L.Streeter, E. Benjamin Wiley and W. Bedford, McGraw-Hill
Companies, 1997.
2. Fluid Mechanics by Douglas, J.M. Gaserek and J.A.Swaffirld, Longman
Publishers, 1995.
3. Fluid Mechanics by Frank.M.White, Tata McGraw Hill Pvt. Ltd., 2011.
4. Fluid Mechanics by A.K.Mohanty, Prentice Hall of India Pvt. Ltd., 2002.
67
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE06) STRENGTH OF MATERIALS-I
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Analyze various forces, various supports, combination of various loads and
deformation of the structures or member.
• Visualize the difference in strengthening a member by increasing the cross
sectional dimensions or making it unnecessarily large and uneconomical. He
will be able to realize that providing larger dimensions than optimum will
make the members costly and inefficient too.
• Describe to predict the displacements or deformations of a member or a
structure due to various Loads and Load combinations.
• Learn the difference between ductile and brittle materials.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• List the types of straining actions that occur due to different types of loading.
• articulate the geometry of the structure to avoid development of undesirable
straining actions against which the material is weak.
• economize the structure by proper modification like making it composite
member or pre-stressing it to introduce stresses of opposite nature.
• judge the suitability of a particular material for a particular situation, such as
ductile materials for withstanding dynamic loads.
UNIT – I
Simple Stresses and Strains
Hooke’s law – Stress and Strain– Stress-Strain diagram for mild steel – Elasticity and
Plasticity –Types of Stresses and Strains – Comparison of stress-strain curves for ductile
and brittle materials – Various types of steel – Working stress – Factor of safety – Lateral
Strain – Poisson’s Ratio and Volumetric Strain – Elastic moduli and the relationship
between them – Bars of varying section.
UNIT – II
Statically Indeterminate Combinations
Members subjected to self-weight acting axially and their articulation for uniform stress –
Equations of Equilibrium and Compatibility – Statically Indeterminate Combinations –
Composite bars – Temperature Stresses – Strain Energy – Strain energy due to axial loads
gradually applied, suddenly applied and impact loads.
UNIT – III
Shear Force and Bending Moment
Types of supports, loads, beams – Concept of shear force and bending moment – Relation
between SF,BM and Rate of loading-SF and BM diagrams for statically determinate beams –
Point of Contraflexure and its significance – Case of making maximum bending moment a
minimum.
68
UNIT – IV
Flexural & Shear Stresses
Theory of Simple bending – Assumptions – Derivation of flexure formula – Neutral axis –
Bending stresses – Section modulus for various sections, Design of simple beam sections –
Advantages of hollow sections.
Derivation of Shear stress formula – Shear stress distribution across depth of various beam
sections like rectangular, circular, triangular, I, T, and angle sections – Role played by the
flanges and web of I section used as beams.
UNIT - V
Deflection of beams:
Slope, Deflection and Radius of curvature – Differential equation for the elastic line of a
beam – Slope and Deflection of beams using Successive Integration method – Macaulay’s
Method – Mohr’s Moment Area Method – Conjugate Beam Method – Application to
Cantilever and Simply Supported Beams.
TEXT BOOKS
1. A Text book of Strength of materials by R.K. Bansal, Laxmi Publications (P) Ltd.,
6th Edition, 2015
2. Mechanics of Structures – Vol.1 by S.B.Junnarkar, Charotar Publishing House,
31st Edition, 2014.
REFERENCES
1. Strength of Materials by Schaum’s Outline Series, Mc. Graw Hill International
Editions, 6th Edition, 2013.
2. Mechanics of Materials by Ferdinand P. Beer and others, Tata McGraw Hill, 6th
Edition, 2013.
3. Strength of Materials by B.C.Punmia, , Laxmi Publications (P) Ltd., 10th Edition,
2013
4. Mechanics of materials by James M. Gere.,Thomson Brooks/cole., 5th
Edition,2004
69
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE07) SURVEYING
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Learn and understand the basic methods of classifications and principles of
surveying.
• learn how to differentiate the methods of area calculation used in surveying.
• discriminate the importance of horizontal Angle, Vertical Angle, Horizontal
distance and Vertical distance on ground profile.
• articulate on construction of setting out of simple curves and recite on modern
instruments used in surveying.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• appreciate the importance of preparation of Map and Plan for required site with
suitable scale.
• prepare contour Map and Estimate the Quantity of earthwork required for
formation level for Road and Railway Alignment.
• judge on which type of instrument to be used for carrying out survey for a setting
out curves and vertical elevations and horizontal distances.
• describe different modern instruments used in surveying.
UNIT – 1
Surveying & measurements
Surveying – History; Definition; Classification; Principles of surveying; Plan and map;
Measurements – Basic Measurements and methods; Errors in surveying: Types of errors
Linear measurements
Different methods; Ranging out; Chaining a line on a flat and on uneven ground; Principles
of chain surveying; Basic definitions; Equipment used for chain survey; Field work; Offsets;
Obstacles in chain survey; Chain & Tape corrections; Degree of accuracy.
UNIT – II
Compass surveying
Prismatic compass; Local attraction; angular measurements Bearings: Azimuths; deflection
angles;
Plane table and its accessories; setting up; Plane tabling methods, Radiation & Intersection
method. Errors in plane tabling;
Simple leveling
Basic definitions; Curvature and Refraction; classification of methods of leveling; Sources of
errors in leveling. Contour; contour interval; Characteristics of contours; Methods of plotting
of contours –Uses of contour maps – Interpolation of contour.
UNIT – III
Areas & volumes
Introduction; Simpson’s rule; Boundaries with offsets at irregular intervals; Coordinate
method; Planimeter. Area of cross sections; two & multi level section; Trapezoidal rule;
Prismoidal formula; Volume from spot levels- volume from contour plan; Capacity of a
reservoir.
70
Theodolite & theodolite traverse
Vernier theodolite – basic definitions, fundamental lines, Measurement of a horizontal angle;
repetition and reiteration methods of horizontal angle measurement. Measurement of vertical
angle- Trigonometric Leveling - Base of the object accessible, base of an inclined object
accessible, reduced level of the elevated points with inaccessible bases.
UNIT – IV
Tacheometric surveying
Basic systems of tacheometric measurements; Inclined sight with staff held vertical; inclined
sight with staff held normal to the line of sight- Trigonometric Leveling.
Circular curves
Basic definitions; Designation of a curve; Relationship between radius and degree of curve;
Elements of a simple circular curve; Methods of setting out.
UNIT – V
Electronic distance measurements
Basic concepts, principle of Electronic Distance Measurement
Modern surveying
Introduction to Geodetic surveying, Total station and Global positioning system, Introduction
to Geographic Information System (GIS).
TEXT BOOKS
1. Surveying Vol I & II by K R Arora, Standard Book house Publications, 2010
2. Elementary Surveying by Charles D Ghilani, Paul R Wolf.,Prentice Hall, 2012.
REFERENCES
1. Higher Surveying by Chandra A. M., , New Age International Publishers, 2007.
2. Surveying I & II by B.C. Punmia, Ashok Kumar Jain, Ashok Kr. Jain, Arun Kr.
Jain., , Laxmi Publications, 2005.
3. Elements of Plane Surveying by Arthur R Benton and Philip J Taety, Mc. Graw
Hill – 2000
4. Surveying & Levelling by R. Subramanian, Oxford University Press, New Delhi,
2011
71
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5CE53) SURVERYING FIELD WORK -I
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• learn the conduct of standard practices using instruments like chain, compass &
plane table
• learn and classify various instrument used in surveying and appreciate
calculation area and plotting
• understand the importance of leveling in surveying along with its applications
• apprise on generation contours and using elevations obtained through leveling
instruments.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• prepare Map and Plan for required site with suitable scale.
• performs area determination for accessible and inaccessible points.
• judge which type of instrument should be used for carrying out survey for an area
and it suitability.
• attempt in construct profile of given ground locations and develop contour maps.
CYCLE - I
Chain surveying
1. Chaining of a line using chain, measurements of area by cross staff survey.
2. Obstacles in chaining.
Compass survey
1. Traversing by compass and plotting after adjustments.
2. Measurement of distance between two inaccessible points by using compass.
Plane Table Surveying
1. Measurement of an area by Radiation method.
2. Intersection Method – Plane Table Survey.
3. Traverse by Plane table Survey.
CYCLE - II
Leveling
1. Measurement of elevation of various given points.
2. Fly Leveling.
3. Longitudinal Leveling
4. Cross – section Leveling
5. Plotting of Contours by Indirect Methods
72
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5CE54) MATERIAL TESTING LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• The Student shall be able to study the uses of various types of testing
machines and capacities.
• The Student shall be able to test various materials against various
types of straining actions for assessing their strength against the
respective straining actions.
• The At the end of the course student should be able toknow the nature
of the material whether ductile or brittle.
• The Student shall be able to understand various implements to apply
specific forces using the machine or to augment the utility of the same
machine.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• clearly understands the concepts of deciding the shape or type of
specimen for assessing different strengths against various straining
actions.
• design the specimens for assessing a particular property of the material
with the available machines.
• decide the suitability of the material to the particular situation e.g.,
dynamic loads, vibrations, impacts, fatigue, etc.,
• design the experiments making use of various techniques of load
measuring or deformation measuring instruments.
1. Uni-axial Tension test on a specimen of Ductile Material.
2. Bending test on Cantilever beam of steel or timber.
3. Bending test on simply supported beam.
4. Torsion test on a specimen of ductile material.
5. Hardness test (Brinell and Rockwell)
6. Compression and tensile tests on close coiled helical spring.
7. Compression test on wood (Parallel & Perpendicular to grains) and/or concrete.
8. Impact test-Izod and Charpy Impact Tests.
9. Direct Shear test.
10. Verification of Maxwell’s Reciprocal theorem on beams.
11. Bending test on continuous beam with point load on one span.
12. Bending test on continuous beam with two point loads, one in each span.
Additional Experiments:
➢ Use of electrical resistance strain gauges-Demonstration.
73
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year II Sem B.Tech (All branches) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS13) COMPUTATIONAL METHODS
Course Prerequisites: Elementary transformations of matrices, differentiation and
integration.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the numerical methods for non linear systems, evaluating definite
integrals and solving Ordinary Differential Equations.
• Understand various methods of interpolation and application.
• Understand the Echolen form and Normal form of a matrix and its applications in
solving linear system of equations.
• Solving system of linear equations using Jacobi and Gauss-Seidal methods.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply the numerical methods to find a root of algebraic and transcendental
equations.
• Apply the numerical methods to find the solutions of ordinary differential
equations.
• Find the rank using Echelon form, Normal form and compute eigen values.
• Solve linear equations using Jacobi method and Gauss-Seidal method
UNIT I
Solutions of non-linear systems:
Introduction; Mathematical preliminaries; Solution of algebraic and transcendental equations
–bisection method, the method of false position, Fixed point iterative method , Newton -
Raphson method, and their order of convergence.
UNIT II
Interpolation:
Introduction; Errors in polynomial interpolation; Finite differences; Forward differences;
Backward differences; Central differences; Symbolic relations and separation of symbols;
Differences of a polynomial; Newton’s formulae for interpolation; Central difference
interpolation formulae; Gauss’s central difference formulae and Lagrange’s interpolation
formulae.
UNIT III
Numerical differentiation and Integration:
Numerical differentiation based on interpolation, Numerical integration: Trapezoidal rule,
Simpson’s 1/3 rule, and Simpson’s 3/8 rule, Gaussian quadrature 2 & 3 point formulae.
Numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations:
Solution of initial value problems by Taylor’s series - Picard’s method of successive
approximations, Euler’s method, and Runge - Kutta methods.
74
UNIT IV
Matrices:
Elementary Transformations, Rank of matrix, Echelon and Normal forms, Consistency of
linear simultaneous equations, Eigen values and eigen vectors and their properties, Caley –
Hamilton theorem (without proof), Quadratic forms - reduction of quadratic form to canonical
form by linear(congruent) and orthogonal transformations.
UNIT V
Complex Matrices and Iterative Methods for Real Systems:
Unitary, Hermitian and skew – Hermitian matrices. Iterative methods for solving a system of
linear equations (Jacobi method, Gauss-Seidal algorithm) and Power method to find largest
and smallest eigen values.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Numerical Methods in Engineering and Science–B.S. Grewal, 3rdedition Publisher:
Khanna
Publishers
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa Publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher: John Wiley
and Sons.
2. Elementary Numerical Analysis – an algorithmic approach -Samuel D. Conte and Carl De
Boor (2006); 3rd edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill
(Beyond Syllabus: Types of errors and analysis)
75
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE08) HYDRAULICS AND HYDRAULIC MACHINES
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Define the fundamental principles of fluid mechanics for the solution of practical
Civil Engineering problems of water conveyance in open channels.
• Discuss analysis and design of channels in uniform and Non-uniform flow
conditions, operating characteristics of hydraulic machinery (pumps and turbines)
and the factors affecting their operation and specifications, as well as their
operation in a system.
• Solve problems on open channel flow and efficiency of pumps and turbine.
• Study and Analyze different types and elements of Hydro Electric Power plants.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Identify fundamental principles of fluid mechanics in solving problems and making
design of open-channel hydraulics under different flow conditions in Civil and
Environmental Engineering.
• Interpret and apply dimensional analysis and similarity to develop hydraulic
models and testing.
• Solve problems related to operation characteristics, specifications and
efficiencies of hydraulic machines (pumps and turbines).
• Compare and categorize the design of appropriate hydraulic pumps and design
of hydraulic turbines and their application in Hydro Electric Power plants.
UNIT-I
Open Channel Flow – I
Types of flows – Types of channels – Velocity distribution – Energy and momentum
correction factors - Chezy’s, Manning’s and Bazin formulae for uniform flow – Most
economical sections.
Critical Flow: Specific energy – critical depth - computation of critical depth – critical, sub
critical and super critical flows.
UNIT-II
Open Channel Flow – II
Non uniform flow – Dynamic equation for G.V.F; Mild, Critical, Steep, Horizontal and
Adverse slopes – Surface profiles – Direct step method.
Rapidly varied flow: Hydraulic jump – derivation - energy dissipation applications.
UNIT-III
Dimensional Analysis and Similitude
Dimensional analysis – Rayleigh’s method and Buckingham’s pi theorem – study of
Hydraulic models – Geometric, Kinematic and Dynamic similarities – Dimensionless
numbers – Model and Prototype relations.
Basics of Turbo Machinery
Hydrodynamic force of jets on stationary and moving flat, inclined and curved vanes, Jet
striking centrally and at tip, Velocity triangles at inlet and outlet, expressions for work done
and efficiency – Angular momentum principle, applications to radial flow turbines.
76
UNIT-IV
Hydraulic Turbines – I
Elements of a typical Hydropower installation – Heads and efficiencies – Classification of
turbines – Pelton wheel – Francis turbine – Kaplan turbine – working, working proportions,
velocity diagram, work done and efficiency, hydraulic design. Draft tube – Classification,
functions and efficiency (Theory only).
Hydraulic Turbines – II
Governing of turbines – Surge tanks – Unit and specific turbines – Unit speed – Unit quantity
– Unit power – Specific speed – Performance characteristics – Geometric similarity –
Cavitation.
UNIT-V
Centrifugal Pumps
Pump installation details – classification – work done – Manometric head – minimum starting
speed – losses and efficiencies – specific speed. Multistage pumps – pumps in parallel –
performance of pumps – characteristic curves – NPSH – Cavitation.
Hydropower Engineering: Classification of Hydropower plants – Definition of terms – load
factor, utilization factor, capacity factor, estimation of hydropower potential.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Open Channel Flow by K. Subramanya, Tata McGraw Hill Pvt. Ltd., 2008.
2. Hydraulic Machines by K. Subramanya, McGraw Education. (I) Pvt. Ltd., 2013
REFERENCES
1. Hydraulic and Hydraulic Machines by Modi & Seth, Standard Book House, 2013.
2. Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulic Machinery by CSP. Ojha, R. Berndtsson and P.N.
Chandramoulli, Oxford university Press, 2012.
3. Open channel Hydraulics by V.T.Chow, McGraw-Hill, 1959.
4. Hydraulic Machines with Fluid Power Engineering by Banga & Sharma, Khanna
Publishers, 1995.
77
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5CE09) STRENGTH OF MATERIALS-II
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• define Principal Stresses and strains and different theories of failure.
• understand the concept of Pure torsion and different types of springs and their
purposes
• understand Euler’s formula, secant and straight line formulae and their application
to long and short columns.
• analyze the stresses for the combined action of direct load and Bending Moment,
determination of stresses for masonry structures.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• define Principal stresses and strains, solve the problems on an inclined section of
a bar under axial load; understand why material fractures on planes other than the
plane over which the tensile force is applied etc.
• define pure torsion, torsion equation, Polar Moment of Inertia , and they will be
able to derive the Torsional moment of resistance for shafts and equations for
open and close coiled helical springs; realize the advantage of hollow shafts in
communicating power.
• define Columns and struts, Analyze columns and struts with different end
conditions by using different theories; distinguish the failures by crushing and
crippling.
• determine stresses for different masonry structures and avoid development of
tension in masonry structures
UNIT-I
Thin & Thick Cylinders
Thin seamless cylindrical shells - Derivation of formula for longitudinal and circumferential
stresses - hoop, longitudinal and volumetric strains – changes in diameter, length and
volume of thin cylinders – wire wound thin cylinders-Thin spherical shells.
Introduction to Thick Cylinders - Lame’s Theory for thick cylinders – Derivation of Lame’s
equations- Distribution of hoop and radial stresses across the thickness – Radial deflection-
Compound cylinders.
UNIT-II
Torsion of Circular Shafts
Theory of pure torsion – Derivation of Torsion equation – Assumptions made in the theory of
pure torsion – Torsional moment of resistance – Polar moment of Inertia-Torsional section
modulus –Power transmitted by shafts – Combined bending and torsion and end thrust –
Design of shafts following theories of failure.
Springs-types of springs – Carriage or leaf springs-, helical springs-deflection of close and
open coiled springs under axial pull and axial couple – Springs in series and parallel.
78
UNIT-III
Principal Stresses and Strains
Introduction - Stresses on an inclined plane at a section of a bar under axial loading –
compound stresses – Normal and tangential stresses on an inclined plane for biaxial
stresses – Two perpendicular stresses accompanied by a state of simple shear –Mohr’s
Circle of stresses –Principal stresses and strains –Analytical and graphical solutions.
Theories of Failures–Various Theories of failures like Maximum Principal stress theory -
Maximum Principal strain theory –Maximum shear stress theory –Maximum strain energy
theory –Maximum shear strain energy theory.
UNIT -IV
Columns and Struts
Introduction –Types of columns – Short , medium and long columns – Axially loaded
compression members –Crushing load-points of Inflexion-Euler’s theorem for long columns –
assumptions –derivation of Euler’s critical load formulae for various end conditions –
Equivalent length of a column –slenderness ratio –Euler’s critical stress-Limitations of
Euler’s theory –Rankine formula – Rankine-Gordon formula –Long columns subjected to
eccentric loading –Secant formula – Straight line formula –Prof Perry’s formula.
UNIT -V
Direct and Bending Stresses
Stresses under the combined action of direct axial loading and B.M., core of a section –
determination of stresses in the case of chimneys ,retaining walls and dams – Middle-third
rule –conditions for stability –stresses due to direct loading and B.M about both axes.
TEXT BOOKS
1. A Text book of Strength of materials by R.K. Bansal, Laxmi Publications (P) Ltd.,
6th Edition, 2015.
2. Mechanics of Structures – Vol. 2 by S.B.Junnarkar & H.J.Shah, Charotar
Publishing House , 24th Edition, 2015.
REFERENCES
1. Mechanics of Materials by Ferdinand P. Beer and others, Tata McGraw Hill, 6th
Edition, 2013.
2. Strength of Materials by B.C.Punmia, , Laxmi Publications (P) Ltd., 10th Edition,
2013.
3. Mechanics of materials by James M. Gere.,Thomson Brooks/cole., 5th
Edition,2004
4. Strength of Materials by Schaum’s Outline Series, Mc. Graw Hill International
Editions, 6th Edition, 2013.
79
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5ME20) MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL TECHNOLOGY
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Explain working principles of IC engines and refrigeration
• understand joining technologies and handling equipment
• Know the principles of DC machines and transformers
• Learn the applications of AC Machines & Instruments
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Classify working principles of IC engines and refrigeration
• define and explain different types of welding techniques
• apply principles of DC machines and transformers
• understand and apply principles of AC Machines & Instruments
UNIT – I
Thermal Engineering:
IC Engines- Classification working principles of petrol, Diesel engines- two stroke and four
stroke engines- comparison
Refrigeration: Block diagram – working principle - Refrigerants and properties- Basic
principles of Air conditioning.
UNIT – II
Metal Joining Technology
Welding : Introduction – classification – Arc welding – Gas welding – equipment and
materials required Arc and Gas cutting, riveting, soldering, brazing
UNIT- III
Handling Equipment :
Earth moving equipment– bull dozers, power showels, escavators conveyors – screw,
rollers, pneumatic, hydraulic concrete mixers.
ELECTRICAL:
UNIT – IV
Dc Machines and Transformers:
Principle of operation of DC Generator – emf equation – types – DC motor types – torque
equation – applications – three point starter – Principles and Operation of single phase
transformer – emf equation losses – efficiency & regulation.
UNIT – V
Ac Machines & Instruments:
Principles of operation alternators – regulation by synchronous impedance method –
Principle of operation of Induction motor – slip – torque characteristics – Application – Basic
principles of indicating instruments – Permanent magnet moving coil and moving iron
instruments.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Electrical Technology by Edward Hughes, ELBS Longman Publisher.
80
2. Introduction of Electrical Engineering by M S Naidu & S Kamakshaiah, TMH
Publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Mechanical Technology by Khurmi
2. Mechanical Technology by Kodandaraman CP
3. Mechanical Technology by Mathur & Domukundawar
4. Construction, Planning, Equipment & Methods by Peurify
5. Fundamentals of Electrical Engineering – by Ashafaq Hussain, 2nd edition Dhanpat
Rai & Co.
6. Theory and Problems of Basic Electrical Engineering – by DP Kothair & I J
Nagrath, PHI Publishers.
81
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech CE - II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE10) CONCRETE TECHNOLOGY
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Use different types of cement as per their properties for different field applications.
• Design economic concrete mix proportion for different exposure conditions and
intended purposes.
• Supervise various concreting operations.
• Conduct field and laboratory tests on concrete in plastic and hardened stage.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Determine the properties of concrete ingredients i.e. cement, sand, coarse
aggregate by conducting different tests. Recognize the effects of the rheology and
early age properties of concrete on its long-term behavior.
• Apply the use of various chemical admixtures and mineral additives to design
cement based materials with tailor-made properties
• Use advanced laboratory techniques to characterize cement-based materials.
• Perform mix design and engineering properties of special concretes such as high-
performance concrete, self-compacting concrete, and fibre reinforced concrete.
UNIT-I
Cement & Aggregates
Portland cement – chemical composition, hydration, setting of cement , structure of
hydrated cement –Tests on physical properties – Different grades of cement – Classification
of aggregates – Particle shape & texture – bond, strength & other Mechanical properties of
aggregates – specific gravity, bulk density, porosity, adsorption & moisture content of
aggregate– sieve analysis – fineness modulus - Grading curves - Grading of fine & coarse
aggregates – gap graded aggregate –maximum aggregate size – alkali aggregate reaction –
thermal properties.
UNIT–II
Admixtures
Types of Admixtures – Mineral and chemical admixtures – properties – dosages – effects -
usage.
Fresh concrete
Workability – Factors affecting workability – Measurement of workability by different tests -
setting times of concrete - Effect of time and temperature on workability - Segregation &
Bleeding - Mixing and vibration of concrete - Steps in the manufacture of concrete - Quality
of mixing water.
UNIT–III
Hardened concrete
Water/cement ratio - Abram’s Law – Gel space ratio law- Maturity concept - strength in
tension & compression - Factors affecting strength -Relation between compressive & tensile
strengths
82
UNIT–IV
Testing of hardened Concrete
Compression test -Tension Test - Flexure Test - Splitting Test- Factors affecting strength-
Non-Destructive Testing methods – Codal provisions for NDT - Modulus of Elasticity – Static
and Dynamic modulus of elasticity- Poisson’s ratio - Creep of concrete - Factors influencing
creep – Relation between creep & time – Nature of creep – effects of creep - Shrinkage-
types of shrinkage.
UNIT-V
Mix design
Factors in the choice of mix proportions - Durability of concrete – quality control of concrete -
Statistical methods – Acceptance criteria –Proportioning of concrete mixes - BIS method of
mix design for ordinary and pumpable concrete
Special concretes
Introduction to Light weight concrete – light weight aggregates – cellular concrete – No-fines
concrete – fibre reinforced concrete – polymer concrete – High performance concrete – Self
compacting concrete – Ready Mix concrete.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Concrete Technology by M.S.Shetty – S.Chand & Co. ;7th edition, 2006.
2. Properties of concrete by A.M.Neville – Low priced edition – 5th edition, 2012.
REFERENCES
1. Concrete Technology by A.R.Santha Kumar, Oxford university press, New
Delhi,3rd edition,2006.
2. Concrete: Micro Structure, Properties and Materials – P.K.Mehta and
J.M.Monteiro, Mc-Graw Hill Publishers, 4th edition, 2013.
3. Special Structural concretes by Rafat Siddique, Galgotia Publications, 1st edition,
2000.
4. Concrete Technology by M.L.Gambhir – Tata Mc.Graw Hill press, New Delhi, 5th
edition,2013.
83
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE11) STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS - I
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Differentiate the statically determinate and indeterminate structures.
• Solve the statically indeterminate structures by applying the principles of
equilibrium and compatibility in deformation pertaining to the structure.
• Analyze the statically determinate arches and find the deflections in beams,
frames using energy principles.
• Draw the Influence line diagrams for reaction, SF and BM.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Understand the advantage of statically indeterminate structure over the statically
determinate structure.
• Sketch the SF and BM diagrams for determinate and indeterminate beams.
• Calculate the deflections in beams and pin jointed trusses.
• Evaluate the maximum SF and BM due to various types of moving loads.
UNIT - I
Propped cantilevers :
Analysis of propped cantilevers - shear force and bending moment diagrams - Deflection of
propped cantilevers.
Fixed beams :
Introduction to statically indeterminate beams, shear force and bending moment diagrams -
deflection of fixed beams, effect of sinking of support, effect of rotation of a support.
UNIT - II
Continuous beams :
Introduction- Clapeyron’s theorem of three moments - analysis of continuous beams of
constant moment of inertia with one or both ends fixed - continuous beams with overhang,
continuous beams with different moments of inertia for different spans - effect of sinking of
supports - shear force and bending moment diagrams. Analysis of Fixed beams using
Clapeyrons theorem.
UNIT - III
Three hinged Arches :
Elastic theory of arches – Eddy’s theorem – Determination of horizontal thrust, bending
moment, normal thrust and radial shear – effect of temperature.
UNIT-IV
Energy theorems :
Strain energy due to bending moment and shear forces – Castigliano’s first theorem –
deflection of simple beams and pin jointed trusses.
Indeterminate Structural Analysis –– Castigliano’s second theorem - Trusses with one
degree of internal or external indeterminacy.
84
UNIT-V
Influence lines :
Definition of influence line for SF, influence line for BM - load position for maximum SF at a
section - load position for maximum BM at a section - single point load, udl longer than the
span udl shorter than the span.
Moving loads :
Introduction, maximum SF and BM at a given section and absolute maximum S.F. and B.M.
due to single concentrated load, udl longer than the span, udl shorter than the span, two
points loads with fixed distance between them and several point loads - Equivalent uniformly
distributed load - focal length.
TEXT BOOKS :
1. Analysis of Structures – Vol. I by Prof. V.N.Vazirani, Dr. M.M. Ratwani & Dr. S.K.
Duggal, Khanna Publishers, 17th Edition.
2. Theory of Structures by B.C. Punmia, Ashok Kumar Jain, Arun Kumar Jain, Laxmi
Publications, 12th Edition.
REFERENCES :
1. Theory of Structures by S.P.Timoshenko, D.H.Young, McGraw-Hill International
Edition, 2nd Edition, 1965.
2. Structural Analysis by Devdas Menon, Narosa Publishers, 2008.
3. Theory of Structures – Vol. I by G.S. Pandit, S.P.Gupta, R.Gupta, Tata McGraw-
Hill Publishers, 2014.
4. Basic Structural Analysis by K. U. Muthu, Azmi Ibrahim, M.Vijayanand and
M. Janardhana, I K International Publishing House, Ist Edition, 2011.
85
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5CE55) FLUID MECHANICS AND HYDRAULIC MACHINES LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• To identify the behavior of analytical models introduced in lecture to the actual
behavior of real fluid flows.
• To explain the standard measurement techniques of fluid mechanics and their
applications.
• To illustrate the students with the components and working principles of the
Hydraulic machines- different types of Turbines, Pumps, and other miscellaneous
hydraulics machines.
• To analyze the laboratory measurements and to documents the results in an
appropriate format.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Describe the basic measurement techniques of fluid mechanics and its
appropriate application.
• Interpret the results obtained in the laboratory for various experiments.
• Discover the practical working of Hydraulic machines- different types of Turbines,
Pumps, and other miscellaneous hydraulics machines.
• Compare the results of analytical models introduced in lecture to the actual
behavior of real fluid flows and draw correct and sustainable conclusions.
List of Experiments
1. Verification of Bernoulli’s equation
2. Determination of Coefficient of discharge for a small orifice by a constant head
method
3. Calibration of Venturimeter / Orifice Meter
4. Calibration of Triangular / Trapezoidal Notch
5. Study of Minor losses in pipe flow
6. Determination of Friction factor of a pipe line
7. Impact of jet on vanes
8. Study of Hydraulic jump
9. Main characteristics of Pelton wheel turbine
10. Performance test on Francis turbine
11. Main characteristics of a single stage / multi stage Centrifugal Pump
12. Operating characteristics of Reciprocating Pump
86
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5CE56) SURVERYING FIELD WORK – II
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• understand concepts and principles of theodolite and tacheometric surveying.
• gain knowledge in measuring angles using theodolite surveying.
• expedite the process of setting out of a simple circular curve.
• appreciate the applications of modern instruments in measurement of area
determination, distance between inaccessible points contouring.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Perform heights and distance measurement using theodolite surveying.
• Practice heights and distance measurement using tacheometric surveying and set
out curve using theodolite instrument.
• Apprise the importance of modern instruments in determination of area and
plotting the same accurately and precisely.
• To critic in generation of contour map using total station instruments
CYCLE - I
Theodolite surveying:
1. Measurement of horizontal angles and vertical angles.
2. Determination of tachometer constants.
3. Distance between two inaccessible points using the principles of tachometer
surveying.
4. Distance between two inaccessible points using the principles of trigonometric
surveying
5. Setting out of simple circular curve.
CYCLE - II
Total Station.
1. Area Measurement
2. Stake Out
3. Remote Elevation Measurement
4. Missing Line Measurement
5. Longitudinal & Cross Section Profile
6. Contouring – Indirect method
7. Setting out of a compound curve.
87
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
L T/P/D C
II B.Tech II Semester
0 3 2
(5BS04) GENDER SENSITIZATION
(Common to All Branches)
Course Objectives:
• To develop students sensibility with regard to issues of gender in
contemporary India.
• To provide a critical perspective on the socialization of men and women.
• To introduce students to information about some key biological aspects of
genders.
• To expose the students to debates on the politics and economics of work.
• To help students reflect critically on gender violence.
• To expose students to more egalitarian interactions between men and women.
Course Outcomes:
• Students will have developed a better understanding of important issues
related to gender in contemporary India.
• Students will be sensitized to basic dimensions of the biological, sociological,
psychological and legal aspects of gender. This will be achieved through
discussion of materials derived from research, facts, everyday life, literature
and film.
• Students will attain a finer grasp of how gender discrimination works in our
society and how to counter it.
• Students will acquire insight into the gendered division of labour and its
relation to politics and economics.
• Men and women students and professionals will be better equipped to work
and live together as equals.
• Students will develop a sense of appreciation of women in all walks of life.
• Through providing accounts of students and movements as well as the new
laws that provide protection and relief to women, the textbook will empower
students to understand and respond to gender violence.
Unit-I:
UNDERSTANDING GENDER:
Gender: Why Should We Study It? (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-1)
Socialization: Making Women, Making Men (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-2)
Introduction, Preparing for Womanhood. Growing up Male. First lessons in Caste.
Different Masculinities.
Just Relationships: Being Together as Equals (Towards a world of Equals: Unit-12)
Mary Kom and Onler. Love and Acid just do not Mix. Love Letters, Mothers and
Fathers. Further Reading: Rosa Parks-The Brave Heart.
Unit-II:
GENDER AND BIOLOGY:
Missing Women: Sex Selection and Its Consequences (Towards a word of
Equals: Unit-4)
Declining Sex Ratio. Demographic Consequences.
88
Gender Spectrum: Beyond the Binary (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-10)
Two or Many? Struggles with Discrimination.
Additional Reading: Our Bodies, Our health (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-13)
Unit-III:
GENDER AND LABOUR:
Housework: the Invisible Labour (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-3)
“My Mother doesn’t Work.””Share the Load.”
Women’s Work: Its Politics and Economics (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-7)
Fact and Fiction. Unrecognized and Unaccounted work. Further Reading: Wages and
Conditions of Work.
Unit-IV:
ISSUES OF VOILENCE:
Sexual Harassment: Say No! (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-6)
Sexual Harassment: not Eve-Teasing-Coping with Everyday Harassment-Further
Reading: “Chupulu”.
Domestic Violence: Speaking Out (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-8)
Is Home a Safe Place?-When Women Unite [Film]. Rebuilding Lives. Further Reading:
New Forums for Justice.
Thinking about Sexual Violence (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-11)
Blaming the Victim-“I fought for my Life...”- Further reading: The Caste Face of
Violence.
Unit-V:
GENDER AND STUDIES:
Knowledge: Through the Lens of Gender (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-5)
Point of View. Gender and the Structure of Knowledge. Further Reading:
Unacknowledged Women Artists of Telangana.
Whose History? Questions for Historians and Others (Towards a word of Equals:
Unit-9)
Reclaiming a Past. Writing Other Histories. Further Reading. Missing Pages from
Modern Telangana History.
Essential Reading: all the Units in the Textbook, “Towards a word of Equals: A
Bilingual Textbook on Gender” written by A. Suneetha, Uma Bhrugubanda, Duggirala
Vasanta, Rama Malkote, Vasudha Nagaraj, Asma rasheed, Gogu Shyamala, Deepa
Sreenivas and Susie Tharu.
Note: Since it is Interdisiplinary Course, Resouse Persons can be drawn from the
fields of English Literature or Sociology or Political Science or any other qualified
faculty who has expertise in this field.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Sen, Amartya. “More than One Million Women are Missing.” New York
Review of Books 37.20 (20 December 1990). Print. ‘We Were Making
History...’ Life Stories of Women in the Telangana People’s Struggle. New
Delhi: Kali for Women, 1989.
2. Tripti Lahiri. “By the Numbers: Where Indian Women Work.” Women’s
Studies Journal (14 November 2012) Available online at :
http://blogs.wsj.com/India real time/2012/11/14/by-the-numbers-where-India-
women-work/>
89
3. K. Satyanarayana and Susie tharu(Ed) Steel Nibs are Sprouting: New Dalit
Writing from South India Dossier 2: Telugu and Kannada
http://harpercollins.co.in/BookDetail.asp?Book Code =3732
4. Vimala . “Vantillu (The Kitchen)”. Women Writing in India: 600 BC to the
Present. Volume II: The 20th Century. Ed. Susie Tharu and K. Lalita. Delhi:
Oxford University Press, 1995. 599-601.
5. Shatrughna, Veena et al. Women’s Work and its Impact on Child Health and
Nutrition, Hyderabad, National Institute of Nutrition, Indian Council of Medical
Research. 1993.
6. Stree Shakti Sanghatana. “ We Were Making History.....’Life Stories of
Women in the Telangana People’s Struggle. New Delhi: Kali for Women,
1989.
7. Menon, Nivedita. Seeing like a Feminist. New Delhi: Zubaan-Penguin Books,
2012.
8. Jayaprabha, A. “Chupulu (Stares)”, Women Writing in India: 600 BC to the
Present. Volume II: The 20th Century. Ed. Susie Tharu and K. Lalita. Delhi:
Oxford University Press, 1995. 596-597.
9. Javeed, Shayan and Anupam Manuhaar. “Women and wage Discrimination
in India: A Critical Analysis.”International Journal of Humanities and Social
Science Invention 2.4 (2013).
10. Gautam , Liela and Gita Ramaswamy. “A ‘conversation’ between a Daughter
and a Mother.”Broadsheet on Contemporary Politics, Special issue on
Sexuality and Harassment: gender Politics on Campus Today. Ed.
Madhumeeta Sinha and Asma rasheed. Hyderabad: Anveshi Research
Center for Women’s Studies, 2014.
11. Abdulali Sohaila “I Fought For My Life ...and Won. “Available online at:
http://www.thealternative.in/lifestyle/i-fought-for-my-lifeand-won-sohaila-
abdulal/
12. Jeganathan Pradeep, Partha Chatterjee (Ed). “Community, Gender and
Violence Subaltern Studies XI’
Permanent Black and ravi Dayal Publishers, New Delhi, 2000.
13. K. Kapadia. The Violence of Development: the Politics of Identity, Gender and
Social Inequalities in India. London: Zed Books, 2002.
14. S. Benhabib. Situating the Self: Gender, Community, and Postmodernism in
Contemporary Ethics, London: Routledge, 1992.
15. Virginia Woolf. A Room of One’s Own. Oxford: Black Swan. 1992.
16. T. Banuri and M. Mahmood, Just Development: Beyond Adjustment with a
Human Face, Karachi: Oxford University Press, 1997
90
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE12) ENGINEERING HYDROLOGY
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• To describe the fundamentals concepts of Engineering Hydrology.
• To explain and derive various formula used in Engineering Hydrology
• To enable the students to solve basic hydrology problems
• To enable the students to connect the knowledge gained to real life hydrology
related problems
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• At the end of the course student should be able to describe different concepts
and terms used in engineering hydrology
• At the end of the course student should be able to discuss and explain various
common formulae used
• At the end of the course student should be able to relate and explain fundamental
principles and theories as applied to engineering hydrology
• Students will be able solve analytical problems applying appropriate formulae.
Unit I
Introduction: Concepts of Hydrologic cycle, Global Water Budget, Applications in
Engineering.
Precipitation
Forms of Precipitation, Measurement of Precipitation: Recording and non recording types,
Mass rainfall curves, Characteristics mean rainfall on a basin – Arithmetic, Theissen and
Isohyetal methods, Intensity – Duration Analysis, PMP, Missing Rainfall Data – Estimation,
Consistency of Rainfall records, Double mass curve, Rain gauge network analysis.
Unit II
Evaporation
Evaporation process, Estimation of evaporation, Measurement of evaporation – Evaporation
pans, Transpiration, Evapo-transpiration, PET, Estimation of Evaporation- Blaney- Criddle,
Thornthwaite formula.
Infiltration
Infiltration process, Factors affecting infiltration, Measurement of infiltration, Infiltrometer,
Infiltration capacity curve, Horton’s relation, Infiltration Indices, Φ-Index, W-Index and W
min
Index.
Unit III
Runoff
Components of Runoff, Factors affecting runoff, Basin yield, SCS-CN method of estimating
runoff, Flow duration curves, Mass curve of runoff – Analysis.
Hydrographs
Hydrograph – components, separation of hydrograph into base flow and DRO – Methods,
Unit hydrograph – principles, derivation of UH of Isolated unit storms, UH for various
durations – S-curve technique, Estimation of runoff from UH, Average UH, Limitations of UH
theory, Synthetic UH, IUH.
91
Unit IV
Groundwater Hydrology
Occurrence, movement and distribution of groundwater, aquifers – types, Specific Yield,
Permeability, Storage coefficient, Transmissibility, Darcy’s Law.
Well Hydraulics
Steady radial flow into well for confined and unconfined aquifers, Recuperation tests.
Unit V
Design Floods
Rational methods, Empirical Formulae, Unit Hydrograph Method, Flood Frequency Studies-
Gumbel’s Method, Log-Pearson Type III Distribution, Risk, reliability and safety factor.
Flood Routing
Basic Equations, Hydrologic Storage Routing, Hydrologic Flood Routing, Flood control.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering Hydrology by K. Subramanya , Tata McGraw-Hill Publishers, 4th
Edition, 2013
2. A Text Book of Hydrology by Dr P. Jaya Rami Reddy, Laxmi Publications, 3rd
edition
REFERENCES
1. Hydrology by Madan Mohan Das and Mimi Das Saikia, PHI Publishers, 2009
2. Ground water Hydrology by David Keith Todd, John Wiley & Son, 2nd Edition 2005.
3. Elements of Water Resources Engineering by K.N.Duggal and J.P.Soni, New Age
International, 2008
4. Engineering Hydrology by by C.S.P. Ojha, P. Bhunya, R. Berndtsson, Oxford
Higher Education, 2008
92
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5CE13) DESIGN OF REINFORCED CONCRETE STRUCTURES
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Describe the salient features of Limit State Method of design of RC
structures.
• Identify and tell the various codal provisions given in IS. 456
• Analyze the behaviour of RC beams under flexure, shear and compression.
• Describe the concepts of limit state of collapse and limit state of
serviceability.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Compare and Design the singly reinforced, doubly reinforced and flanged
sections.
• Design the axially loaded, uniaxial and biaxial bending columns.
• Classify the footings and Design the isolated square, rectangular and
circular footings
• Distinguish and Design the one-way and two-way slabs.
UNIT – I
Limit state design, Basic statistical principles, Characteristic loads, Characteristic strength,
Partial load & safety factors, Representative stress- strain curves for cold worked deformed
bars and mild steel bars, Assumptions in limit state design, Stress block parameters, I.S. 456
Codal provisions
Limit state design of Singly reinforced, Doubly reinforced, T and L beam sections
UNIT – II
Limit state design of beams for shear and torsion, Concept of bond, Anchorage &
Development length, Design examples in simply supported and continuous beams,
Detailing.
UNIT-III
Design of one-way slabs, Design of continuous slabs using IS coefficients, Design of two-
way simply supported and restrained slabs.
UNIT – IV
Design of axially loaded columns of different cross sections, Design of columns under uni-
axial bending and bi-axial bending using SP-16 charts
UNIT – V
Different types of footings, Design of flat type isolated square, rectangular and circular
footings.
Limit state of serviceability for deflection and cracking
TEXT BOOKS
1. Limit state design of reinforced concrete by P.C. Varghese, PHI, New Delhi.2nd
Edition 2011
2. Fundamentals of Reinforced concrete design by M.L.Gambhir, PHI, New Delhi.2nd
Edition 2010
93
3. Limit State Design by B.C.Punmia, Ashok Kumar Jain and Arun Kumar Jain,
Laxmi, Publications Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi.3rd Edition 2007
REFERENCES
1. Reinforced Concrete Design by S.Unnikrishna Pillai & Devdas Menon, TMH, New
Delhi. 3rd Edition 2009
2. Reinforced Concrete Design by N.Krishna Raju and R.N.Pranesh, New age
International Publishers, New Delhi. 8th Edition 2004
3. N.C. Sinha and S.K Roy, “Fundamentals of Reinforced Concrete”, 4th Edition, S.
Chand publishers, 2004
CODE BOOKS
1. IS 456 : 2000 Plain and Reinforced Concrete-Code of Practice
2. SP-16 Design Aids for Reinforced Concrete
Note:
Question paper pattern for Final Examination:
The end examination paper should consist of Part-A and Part-B. Part-A consists of two
questions in Design and Drawing out of which one question is to be answered for 24 marks.
Part-B consists of Five questions on design out of which three are to be answered for 36
marks (12 x 3).
94
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CE –I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE14) ENGINEERING GEOLOGY
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• To define basic geological concepts from civil engineering point of view
• To identify the various physical properties of minerals and rocks and to
understand the concept of structural geology
• To understand the significance of Geology as applied to Civil Engineering
• To apply this knowledge in Civil Engineering projects such as dams, roads,
tunnels and slopes
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Describe different concepts and terms used in Engineering Geology
• Identify and explain various types of minerals and rocks
• Apply the various concepts of Engineering Geology to civil engineering field
• Examine and select the sites related to dams, roads, tunnels and slopes
UNIT – I
Introduction
Definition of Geology, Engineering Geology. Importance of geology from Civil Engineering
point of view. Importance of physical geology, petrology and structural geology. Case studies
of failures of few civil engineering constructions, weathering of rocks and its effect on the
properties of rocks, importance of weathering with reference to dams, reservoirs and
tunnels.
UNIT – II
Mineralogy
Definition of mineral, mineralogy, Importance of study of minerals: rock forming and ore
forming minerals. Different methods of study of minerals. Study of minerals by physical
identification method and their physical properties. Determination of Physical properties of
following minerals: Feldspar, Quartz, Flint, Jasper, Olivine, Augite, Hornblende, Muscovite,
Biotite, Asbestos, Chlorite, Kyanite, Garnet, Talc, Calcite. Study of ore forming minerals such
as Pyrite, Hematite, Magnetite, Amethyst, Galena, Pyrolusite, Graphite, Magnesite, and
Bauxite, Coral reefs.
UNIT – III
Petrology
Definition of a rock, petrology. Classification of rocks-Geological classification of rocks. Rock
Cycle. Classification of igneous Forms, structures and textures of igneous rocks.
Classification of sedimentary rocks, and its structures and textures. Classification of
metamorphic rocks, its structures and textures.
Megascopic Study of Granite, Dolerite, Basalt, Pegmatite, Charnockite, Sandstone, Shale,
Limestone, Gneiss, Schist, Quartzite, Marble and Slate.
UNIT – IV
Structural Geology
Out Crop, Study of geological structures associated with rocks such as folds, faults, joints,
unconformities-their important types. Significance of Strike and dip in geological structures,
95
Earthquakes, their causes and effects, shield areas and seismic belts, seismic waves
Richter scale, Precautions to be taken for building construction in seismic areas. Landslides,
their causes and effects, measures to be taken to prevent their occurrence, Ground Water,
water table, common types of ground water, springs, geological controls of ground water
movement, ground water exploration.
UNIT – V
Importance of Geophysical investigations, Principles of geophysical methods. Importance of
Electrical resistivity method and seismic refraction method from civil engineering point of
view.
Geology of Dams, Reservoirs, Tunnels
Types of Dams, Importance of geological considerations in the site selection of dams,
reservoirs and tunnels. Case histories of dams, geological factors affecting the water
tightness and life of a reservoir. Purpose of tunneling, types of tunnels, overbreak, lining of
tunnels.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering Geology by N.Chennakesavulu, Mc-Millan, India Ltd.
2. Principles of Engineering Geology by K.V.G.K.Gokhale, B.S publications
REFERENCES
1. Engineering Geology by S K Duggal, H K Pandey and N Rawal,McGraw Hill
Education
2. Engineering Geology by D Venkat Reddy, Vikas publications, New Delhi.
3. Geology for Civil Engineers by A.C. Mclean and C.D. Gribble ,Second Edition
4. Engineering and General Geology by Parbin Singh, S.K.Kataria & Sons, 2009
96
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5CE15) STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS – II
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Identify the various straining actions in arches.
• Understand displacement methods of analysis for statically indeterminate
structures.
• Differentiate the various methods of analysis for indeterminate structures.
• Find the degree of static and kinematic indeterminacies of the structures.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Analyze the two hinged arches.
• Solve statically indeterminate beams and portal frames using classical methods
• Sketch the shear force and bending moment diagrams for indeterminate
structures.
• Formulate the stiffness matrix and analyze the beams by matrix methods.
UNIT-I
Two Hinged Arches :
Determination of horizontal thrust, bending moment, normal thrust and radial shear – Rib
shortening – effect of temperature.
Cables :
Introduction, Properties of a suspended cable, Equilibrium of a loaded cord, Cable carrying a
udl, Temperature stresses in the cable.
UNIT-II
Slope Deflection Method :
Introduction, derivation of slope deflection equations, application to continuous beams with
and without settlement of supports, application to portal frames
UNIT – III
Moment Distribution Method :
Stiffness and carry over factors – Distribution factors – Analysis of continuous beams with
and without sinking of supports, Application to portal frames – Non-sway, Sway.
UNIT-IV
Kani’s Method :
Analysis of continuous beams including settlement of supports and single bay single storey
portal frames with and without side sway.
UNIT–V
Matrix Methods :
Stiffness Method - Determination of kinematic indeterminacy, Formulation of stiffness matrix,
Application to continuous beams.
Flexibility Method - Determination of static indeterminacy, Formulation of flexibility matrix,
Application to continuous beams.
97
TEXT BOOKS
1. Analysis of Structures – Vol. II by Prof. V.N.Vazirani, Dr. M.M. Ratwani & Dr.
S.K. Duggal, Khanna Publishers, 16th Edition.
2. Theory of Structures by B.C. Punmia, Ashok Kumar Jain, Arun Kumar Jain,
Laxmi Publications, 12th Edition.
REFERENCES
1.Theory of Structures by S.P.Timoshenko, D.H.Young, McGraw-Hill
International Edition, 2nd Edition, 1965.
2. Structural Analysis by Devdas Menon, Narosa Publishers, 2008.
3.Theory of Structures – Vol. II by S.P.Gupta, G.S. Pandit, R.Gupta, Tata
McGraw-Hill Publishers, Ist Edition.
3. Indeterminate Structural Analysis by K. U. Muthu, H.Narendra, M. Janardhana,
M.Vijayanand, I K International Publishing House, Ist Edition, 2014.
98
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CE –I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective -I 3 0 3
(5CE71) DISASTER MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Understand the difference between a hazard and disaster
• Know about various disasters and their impacts
• Understand Different approaches of disaster risk reduction
• Understand Disaster risks in India
Course Outcomes:
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be able
to
• Acquire the knowledge disaster Management
• Understand the vulnerability of ecosystem and infrastructure due to a disaster
• Acquire the knowledge of Disaster Management Phases
• Understand the hazard and vulnerability profile of India
UNIT-1
Introduction to disaster
Concepts and definitions (Disaster, Hazard, Vulnerability, Resilience, Risks)
UNIT-II
Disasters: Classifications, Causes, Impacts (including social, economic, political,
environment, health, psychosocial, etc.)
Differential impacts-in terms of caste, class, gender, age, location, disability Global trends in
disasters. Urban disaster, pandemics, complex emergencies, Climate change
UNIT-III
Approaches to disaster Risk reduction
Disaster cycle-its analysis, phase, Culture of safety, prevention, mitigation and
preparedness, community based DRR, Structural measures, roles and responsibilities of
community. Panchayati Raj Institutions/Urban Local Bodies (PRIs/ULBs), states, center and
other stake-holders.
UNIT-IV
Inter-relationship between Disaster and Development
Factors affecting Vulnerabilities, differential impacts, impact of development projects such as
dams, embankments, change in land-use etc. Climate change Adaption. Relevance of
indigenous knowledge, appropriate technology and local resources.
UNIT-V
Disaster Risk Management in India
Hazard and vulnerability profile of India Components of Disaster relief: Water, food,
sanitation, shelter, health, waste management Institutional arrangements (Mitigation,
Response and Preparedness, DM Act Policy, Other related polices, plan, programmes
and legislation)
99
Project Work :( Field Work, Case Studies):
The project/fieldwork is meant for students to understand vulnerabilities and to work on
reducing disaster risks and to build a culture of safety. Projects must be conceived creatively
based on the geographic location and hazard.
Suggested Reading list:
1. Alexander David, Introduction in ‘Confronting Catastrophe’, oxford University press,
2000
2. Andharia J. Vulnerability in disaster Discourse, JTCDM, Tata Institute of Social
Sciences working paper no.8, 2008
3. Blaikie, P, Cannon T, Davis I, Wisner B 1997. At Risk Natural Hazards, Peoples’
Vulnerability and Disaster, Rutledge.
4. Coppola P Damon, 2007. Introduction to International Disaster Management.
5. Carter, Nick 1991.Disaster Management: A Disaster Manager’s Handbook. Asian
Development Bank, Manila Philippines.
6. Cuny,F.1983. Development and Disasters, Oxford University Press
7. Govt.of India; Disaster Management Act 2005,Government of India, New Delhi.
100
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CE – I sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective-I 3 0 3
(5EE71) RENEWABLE ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES
Course Objectives:
• To provide necessary knowledge about the modeling, design and analysis of various
PV systems
• To show that PV is an economically viable, environmentally sustainable alternative to
the world's energy supplies
• To understand the power conditioning of PV and WEC system’s power output
Course Outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Model, analyze and design various photovoltaic systems
• Know the feasibility of various storage systems
• Design efficient stand alone and grid connected PV and WEC power systems
UNIT I
Introduction to photovoltaic (pv) systems:
Historical development of PV systems- Overview of PV usage in the world Photovoltaic
effect-conversion of solar energy into electrical energy.
Solar cells and arrays
Behavior of solar cells-basic structure and characteristics: types - equivalent circuit-
modeling of solar cells including the effects of temperature, irradiation and series/shunt
resistances on the open-circuit voltage and short-circuit currentSolar cell arrays- PV
modules-PV generators- shadow effects and bypass diodes- hot spot problem in a PV
module and safe operating area- Terrestrial PV module modelingInterfacing PV
modules with different loads.
UNIT II
Energy storage alternatives for pv systems
Methods of Energy storage –Pumped Energy Storage – Compressed Energy Storage –
Storage batteries- lead-acid- nickel cadmium-nickel-metal-hydride and lithium type
batteries. Small storage systems employing ultra capacitors- properties- modeling of
batteries.
UNIT-III
Wind Energy Conversion systems (WECS)
Basic Principle of WECS, Nature of Wind, Wind survey in india, Components of WECS,
Power Vs Speed, TSR, Maximum Power operation, WECS- Trade off- Control
Requirements, Basic Principle of Induction generator for WECS
UNIT-IV
Converters for PV and Wind
AC-DC Rectifier, DC-AC inverter (Basic operation) Grid interface voltage and
frequency control, Battery charger (Basic operation)
Power conditioning of PV systems
Array Design, Sun Tracking, Single axis-Dual Axis, Maximum Power point Tracking-
PO method- IC method
101
UNIT-V
Stand Alone systems:
PV Stand Alone, Electric Vehicle, Wind stand Alone, Standalone Hybrid systems-
Hybrid with diesel, Hybrid with Fuel cell- Mode controller- Load sharing, systems sizing,
wind farm sizing- Power and Energy estimates, , Residential systems, PV water
pumping, PV powered lighting-
TEXT BOOKS
1. Patel M. R., “Wind and Solar Power Systems Design, Analysis, and Operation”,
CRC Press, New York, 2nd Edition, 2005
2. Goetzberger, Hoffmann V. U., “Photovoltaic Solar Energy Generation”,
SpringerVerlag,Berlin, 2005.
REFERENCES
1. Komp R.J., “Practical Photovoltaics: Electricity from solar cells”, Aatec
Publications,Michigan, 3rd Edition, 2001.
2. Castaner L., Silvestre S., “Modeling Photovoltaic Systems Using PSpice”, John
Wiley & Sons, England, 2002.
3. Jenny Nelson, “The physics of solar cells”, Imperial College Press, London, 2004.
102
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective- I 3 0 3
(5ME71) DIGITAL FABRICATION
Course Objectives:
• Understand the need of digital fabrication
• Understand about Two dimensional layer by layer techniques
• Know about extrusion based systems, post processing and the
software issues involved in digital fabrication
• Know the applications of digital fabrication
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
• Understand the importance of digital fabrication
• Identify different techniques involved in two dimensional layering
• Analyze the software issues involved in digital fabrication and know
about extrusion based systems and post processing
• Apply the knowledge gained in the digital fabrication
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING: Introduction to AM, AM
evolution, Classification of Additive Manufacturing, Distinction between AM &
CNC Machining, Advantages of AM
UNIT II
TWO- DIMENSIONAL LAYER- BY LAYER TECHNIQUES: Stereolithography
(SL), Solid Foil Polymerization (SFP), Selective Laser Sintering (SLS),
Selective Powder Building (SPB), Ballistic Particle Manufacturing (PM).
UNIT III
EXTRUSION BASED SYSTEMS: Introduction, basic principles, Fused
Deposition Modeling, Materials, Limitations of FDM
POST PROCESSING: Introduction, Support Material Removal, Surface
Texture Improvements, Accuracy Improvements, Aesthetic Improvements.
UNIT IV
SOFTWARE ISSUES FOR ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING: Introduction,
Preparation of CAD Models: The STL file, Problems with STL files, STL file
manipulation, Beyond the STL file, Additional software to assist AM
UNIT V
AM APPLICATIONS
Applications in design, Applications in Engineering Analysis and Planning
103
Medical Applications: Customized Implants and Prosthesis
Aerospace applications and Automotive Applications
Other Applications: Jewelry Industry, Coin Industry, Tableware Industry.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Ian Gibson, David W Rosen, Brent Stucker, “Additive Manufacturing
Technologies: Rapid Prototyping to Direct Digital Manufacturing”,
Springer 2010.
2. Chuaa Chee Kai, Leong Kah Fai, “Rapid Prototyping: Principles &
Applications”, World Scientific, 2010.
REFERENCES:
1. Ali K.Karmani, Emand Abouel Nasr, “Rapid Prototyping: Theory and
Practice”, Springer 2006.
2. Andreas Gebhardt, Understanding Additive Manufacture: Rapid
Prototyping, Rapid Tooling and Rapid Manufacture, Hanser
Publishers, 2013.
3. Hopkinson, N.Haque, and Dickens Rapid Manufacturing: Advanced
Research in Virtual and Rapid Prototyping, Taylor and Francis, 2007.
104
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective - I 3 0 3
(5EC71) PRINCIPLES OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS
(Qualitative Analysis only)
Course Objectives:
• To make students understand different types of communication.
• To make students understand different modulation technique
• To make students understand basics of wireless communications.
• To make students understand basics of cellular communications.
Course Outcome:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Analyze the techniques used for signal modulation and demodulation.
• Distinguish the need for PPM, PWM, Multiplexing.
• Understand the fundamental concepts of Cellular & Mobile communications
UNIT I
Introduction
Block diagram of Electrical communication system, Radio communication, Types of
communications: Analog, pulse and digital.
Analog Modulation
Need for modulation, Types of Analog modulation, Amplitude Modulation, Angle
Modulation: Frequency & Phase modulations. Generation and Demodulation
techniques. Advantages of FM over AM, Bandwidth consideration, Narrow band and
Wide band FM, Comparison of FM & PM.
UNIT II
Pulse Modulations
Sampling, Nyquist rate of sampling, Sampling theorem for Band limited signals, PAM,
regeneration of base band signal, PWM and PPM, Time Divison Multiplexing,
Frequency Divison Multiplexing, Asynchronous Multiplexing.
UNIT III
Digital Communication
Advantages, Block diagram of PCM, Quantization, effect of quantization, quantization
error, Base band digital signal, DM, ADM, ADPCM and comparison. Digital Modulation
: ASK, FSK, PSK, DPSK, QPSK demodulation, offset and non-offset QPSK, coherent
and incoherent reception, Modems.
UNIT IV
Introduction to Wireless Networking
Introduction, Difference between wireless and fixed telephone networks, Development of
wireless networks, Traffic routing in wireless networks.
105
UNIT V
Cellular Mobile Radio Systems
Introduction to Cellular Mobile System, concept of frequency reuse, Performance
criteria, uniqueness of mobile radio environment, operation of cellular systems,
Hexagonal shaped cells, Analog and Digital Cellular systems. Cell splitting.
Handoffs and Dropped Calls
Handoff, dropped calls and cell splitting, types of handoff, handoff initiation, delaying
handoff, forced handoff, mobile assisted handoff, Intersystem handoff, micro cells,
vehicle locating methods, dropped call rates and their evaluation.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Communication Systems Analog and Digital – R.P. Singh and SD Sapre,
TMH, 20th reprint, 2004.
2. Wireless Communications, Principles, Practice – Theodore, S. Rappaport, 2nd
Ed., 2002,PHI.
REFERENCES
1. Wireless Communication and Networking – William Stallings, 2003, PHI.
2. Electronic Communication Systems – Kennedy and Davis, TMH, 4th edition,
2004.
3. Communication Systems Engineering – John. G. Proakis and Masoud Salehi,
PHI, 2ndEd. 2004.
106
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective- I 3 0 3
(5CS71) OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING THROUGH JAVA
Course Objectives:
Understand fundamental concepts and constructs of Java
• Implement Different object-oriented Concepts in Java.
• Develop the concepts of Multi-Threading and IO-Streams
• Construct GUI models.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Write Java programs using various programming constructs using java.
• Solve different mathematical problems using OOP Paradigm
• Design and analyze the solutions for Thread and I/O management Concepts.
• Implement the Applications involving GUI models and Events.
UNIT I
Fundamentals of Object Oriented programming:
Object oriented paradigm - Basic concepts of Object Oriented Programming - Benefits
of OOP - Applications of OOP
Java Evolution: Java Features - How Java differs from C and C++ - Java and Internet
- Java and World Wide Web - Web Browsers - Hardware and Software Requirements -
Java Environment. Overview of Java Language: Simple Java Program - Java Program
Structure - Java Tokens- Java Statements - Implementing a Java Program - Java
Virtual Machine - Constants - Variables - Data types - Scope of Variables-Symbolic
Constants-Type Casting and type promotions – Operators, Operator Precedence and
Associativity - Control Statements – break - continue- Arrays-Multi dimensional arrays,
Wrapper Classes - Simple examples.
UNIT II
Classes:
Classes and Objects - Constructors – methods - this keyword – garbage collection-
finalize - Overloading methods and constructors - Access Control- Static members –
nested and inner classes – command line arguments - variable length arguments.
Inheritance: Forms of inheritance – specialization, specification, construction,
extension, limitation, combination, benefits and costs of inheritance. Super uses- final -
polymorphism, method overriding - dynamic method dispatch –abstract classes –
exploring String class.
UNIT III
Packages and Interfaces:
Defining and accessing a package – understanding CLASSPATH – access protection
importing packages – Interfaces - Defining and implementing an interface, Applying
interfaces, Variables in interfaces and extended interfaces. Exploring java.lang and
java.util packages.
Exception Handling-Fundamentals, usage of try, catch, multiple catch clauses, throw,
throws and finally. Java Built in Exceptions and creating own exception subclasses.
107
UNIT IV
Multithreaded Programming:
Java Thread life cycle model – Thread creation - Thread Exceptions - Thread Priority –
Synchronization - Messaging - Runnable Interface - Interthread Communication -
Deadlock - Suspending, Resuming and stopping threads.
I/O Streams: File – Streams – Advantages - The stream classes – Byte streams –
Character streams.
UNIT V
Applet Programming:
How Applets differ from Applications - Applet Life Cycle - Creating an Applet - Running
the Applet- Designing a Webpage - Applet Tag - Adding Applet to HTML file - More
about Applet Tag - Passing parameters to Applets - Aligning the display.
Event handling: basics of event handling, Event classes, Event Listeners, delegation
event model, handling mouse and keyboard events, adapter classes, AWT Class
hierarchy - AWT Controls - Layout Managers and Menus, limitations of AWT.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. The Complete Reference Java J2SE 5th Edition, Herbert Schildt, TMH
Publishing Company Ltd, NewDelhi.
2. Big Java 2nd Edition, Cay Horstmann, John Wiley and Sons
REFERENCES:
1. Java How to Program, Sixth Edition, H.M.Dietel and P.J.Dietel, Pearson
Education/PHI
2. Core Java 2, Vol 1, Fundamentals, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell,
Seventh Edition, Pearson Education.
3. Core Java 2, Vol 2, Advanced Features, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell,
Seventh Edition, Pearson Education.
108
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(5EI71) PRINCIPLES OF MEASUREMENTS AND INSTRUMENTATION
Course Objectives:
• To provide basic knowledge in transduction principles, sensors and
transducer technology and measurement systems.
• To provide better familiarity with the concepts of Sensors and Measurements.
• To provide the knowledge of various measurement methods of physical
parameters like velocity, acceleration, force, pressure and viscosity.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Able to identify suitable sensors and transducers for real time applications.
• Able to translate theoretical concepts into working models.
• Able to understand the basic of measuring device and use them in relevant
situation.
• Able to estimate the errors in measurement by means of calibrating the
different instruments against the standards.
UNIT I
Introduction to measurements. Physical measurement. Forms and methods of
measurements. Measurement errors. Statistical analysis of measurement data.
Probability of errors. Limiting errors.
Standards. Definition of standard units. International standards. Primary standards.
Secondary standards. Working standards. Voltage standard. Resistance standard.
Current standard. Capacitance standard. Time and frequency standards.
UNIT II
PASSIVE SENSORS:
RESISTIVE SENSORS: Potentiometers, Strain Gages, Resistive Temperature
Detectors (RTDs),Thermistors, Light-dependent Resistors (LDRs), Resistive
Hygrometers , Capacitive SENSORS: Variable capacitor, Differential capacitor,
Inductive Sensors: Reluctance variation sensors, Eddy current sensors
UNIT III
METROLOGY
Measurement of length – Plainness – Area – Diameter – Roughness – Angle –
Comparators – Gauge blocks. Optical Methods for length and distance measurements.
VELOCITY AND ACCELERATION MEASUREMENT
Relative velocity – Translational and Rotational velocity measurements – Revolution
counters and Timers - Magnetic and Photoelectric pulse counting stroboscopic
methods.
Accelerometers- different types, Gyroscopes-applications.
UNIT IV
FORCE AND PRESSURE MEASUREMENT
Gyroscopic Force Measurement – Vibrating wire Force transducer.
109
Basics of Pressure measurement –Manometer types – Force-Balance and Vibrating
Cylinder Transducers – High and Low Pressure measurement
UNIT V
FLOW, DENSITY AND VISCOSITY MEASUREMENTS
Flow Meters- Head type, Area type (Rota meter), electromagnetic type, Positive
displacement type, Density measurements – Strain Gauge load cell method –
Buoyancy method.
Units of Viscosity, Two float viscorator –Industrial consistency meter
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Measurement Systems – Applications and Design – by Doeblin E.O., 4/e,
McGraw Hill International, 1990.
2. Principles of Industrial Instrumentation – Patranabis D. TMH. End edition
1997
REFERENCES:
1. Sensor Technology Hand Book – Jon Wilson, Newne 2004.
2. Instrument Transducers – An Introduction to their Performance and design –
by Herman K.P.Neubrat, Oxford University Press.
3. Measurement system: Applications and Design – by E.O.Doeblin, McGraw
Hill Publications.
4. Electronic Instrumentation by H.S.Kalsi.
110
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective - I 3 0 3
(5IT71) CYBER SECURITY
Course Objectives:
• Identify the key components of cyber security in network
• Describe risk management processes and practices
• Define types of service delivery process and storage management process
• Access additional external resources to supplement knowledge of cyber
forensics and laws
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Categorization of cyber-crime and an understanding social, political, ethical
and psychological dimensions cyber security
• Demonstrate cyber offenses tools, methods used in cyber crime
• Document an appropriate procedure of Risk Management and Security
Standards
• Understanding computer forensics and analyzing them
UNIT-I
INTRODUCTION TO CYBER CRIME: Introduction Cybercrime: Definition and Origins
of the word, Cybercrime and Information Security, Who are Cybercriminals,
Classifications of Cybercrimes, E-mail Spoofing, Spamming, Cyber defamation,
Internet Time Theft, Salami Attack/ Salami Technique, Data Diddling, Forgery, Web
Jacking, Newsgroup Spam/ Crimes Emanating from Usenet Newsgroup, Industrial
Spying/Industrial Espionage, Hacking, Online Frauds, Pornographic Offenses,
Software Piracy, Computer Sabotage, E-Mail Bombing/Mail Bombs, Usernet
Newsgroup as the Source of Cybercrimes, Computer Network Intrusions, Password
Sniffing, Credit Card Frauds, Identity Theft, Cybercrime: The Legal Perspectives,
Cybercrimes: An Indian Perspective, Cybercrime and the Indian ITA 2000, Hacking
and the Indian Law(s), A Global Perspective on Cybercrimes, Cybercrime and the
Extended Enterprise.
UNIT-II
CYBER OFFENSES: HOW CRIMINALS PLAN THEM: Introduction, Categories of
Cybercrime, How Criminals Plan the Attacks, Reconnaissance, Passive Attacks,
Active Attacks, Scamming and Scrutinizing Gathered Information, Attack (Gaining and
Maintaining the System Access), Social Engineering, Classification of Social
Engineering, Cyber stalking, Types of Stalkers, Cases Reported on Cyber stalking,
How Stalking Works?, Real-Life Incident of Cyber stalking, Cyber cafe and
Cybercrimes, Botnets: The fuel for Cybercrime, Botnet, Attack Vector, Cloud
Computing, Why Cloud Computing?, Types of Services, Cybercrime and Cloud
Computing.
111
UNIT-III
TOOLS AND METHODS USED IN CYBER CRIME: Introduction, Proxy Servers and
Anonymizers, Phishing, How Phishing Works, Password Cracking, Online Attacks,
Offline Attacks, Strong, Weak and Random Passwords, Random Passwords,
Keyloggers and Spywares, Software Keyloggers, Hardware Keyloggers,
Antikeylogger, Spywares, Virus and Worms, Types of Viruses, Trojan Horses and
Backdoors, Backdoor, How to Protect from Trojan and Backdoors, Steganography,
Steganalysis, Dos and DDos Attacks, Dos Attacks, Classification of Dos Attacks,
Types of Levels of Dos Attack, Tools Used to Launch Dos Attacks, DDos Attacks,
How to protect from Dos/DDos Attacks, SQL Injection, Steps for SQL Injection Attack,
How to Prevent SQL Injection Attacks.
UNIT-IV
UNDERSTANDING COMPUTER FORENSICS: Introduction, Historical Background
of Cyber forensics, Digital Forensics Science, The Need for Computer Forensics,
Cyber forensics and Digital Evidence, The Rules of Evidence, Forensics Analysis of
E-Mail, RFC2822, Digital Forensics Life Cycle, The Digital Forensics Process, The
Phases in Computer Forensics/Digital Forensics, Precautions to be Taken when
Collecting Electronic Evidence, Chain of Custody Concept, Network Forensics,
Approaching a Computer Forensics Investigation, Typical Elements Addressed in a
Forensics Investigation Engagement Contract , Solving a Computer Forensics Case,
Computer Forensics and Steganography, Rootkits, Information Hiding, Forensics and
Social Networking Sites: The Security/Privacy Threats, Challenges in Computer
Forensics, Technical Challenges: Understanding the Raw Data and its Structure, The
Legal Challenges in Computer Forensics and Data Privacy Issues, Special Tools and
Techniques, Digital Forensics Tools Ready Reckoner, Special Technique: Data
Mining used in Cyber forensics, Forensics Auditing.
UNIT-V
CYBERCRIME AND CYBERTERRORISM: SOCIAL, POLITICAL, ETHICAL and
PSYCHOLOGICAL DIMENSIONS: Introduction, Intellectual Property in the
Cyberspace, Copyright, Patent, Trademarks, Trade Secret, Trade Name, Domain
Name, The Ethical Dimension of Cybercrimes, Ethical Hackers: Good Guys in Bad
Land, The Psychology, Mindset and Skills of Hackers and Other Cybercriminals,
Inside the Minds and Shoes of Hackers and Cybercriminals, Hackers and
Cybercriminals: Evolution of Technical prowess and Skills, Ethical Hackers, Sociology
of Cybercriminals, Personality Traits of Cybercriminals and Younger Generation’s
views about Hacking, Information Warfare: Perception or An Eminent Reality?,
Cyberwar Ground is HOT, Cyber Jihadist on the Rise.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Cyber Security- Understanding Cyber Crimes, Computer Forensics and Legal
Perspectives by Nina Godbole and Sunit Belpure, Publication Wiley.
REFERENCES:
1. Management of Information Security, M. E. Whitman, H. J. Mattord, Nelson
Education, CENGAGE Learning, 2011, 3rd Edition.
2. Guide to Computer Forensics and Investigations, B. Nelson, A. Phillips, F.
Enfinger, C. Steuart, Nelson Education / CENGAGE Learning, 2010, 4th
Edition
112
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective- I 3 0 3
(5AE71) PRINCIPLES OF AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
Course Prerequisites: Physics
Course Objectives:
• Understand the layout of an automobile and functionalities subsystems
• Provide overview on concepts of engine, cooling, lubrication and fuel systems
• Present constructional features and working of automotive driveline and
running systems
• Study the fundamentals and principles of automotive electrical systems
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Explain the functionalities of automotive systems and subsystems
• Give an overview on engine and engine subsystems.
• Describe working of automotive driveline and running systems
• Discuss the concepts of automotive starting, ignition and charging systems
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION: Classification of automobiles, layout of an automobile, automobile
sub systems and their role. Types of chassis, role and requirement of a chassis frame,
types of frames, materials, loading points and types of bodies.
UNIT II
ENGINE: Classification and components of an engine, principle and working of four
stoke and two stroke SI and CI engines. Carburetor, diesel fuel injection and
introduction to electronic fuel injection system. Cooling - Necessity of cooling, air-
cooling and water cooling. Lubrication – Mist, splash and forced system.
UNIT III
DRIVE LINE: Clutches, principle, single plate clutch, multi plate clutch and centrifugal
clutch. Gear box - Need, sliding mesh, constant mesh and synchromesh gear box.
Propeller shaft, universal joint, differential, wheels and tyres.
UNIT IV
RUNNING SYSTEMS: Suspension systems – Objective, rigid axle and independent
suspension system and torsion bar. Steering system – Layout, steering mechanism,
steering geometry and steering gearboxes. Brake system – Principle, stopping
distance, types of brakes and actuation.
UNIT V
ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS: Starting system - Principle, working of different starter drive
units and solenoid switches. Ignition system - Conventional ignition system types,
ignition advance and retarding mechanisms. Charging system - Alternator principle,
construction and working, cut-outs and regulators.
113
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Heinz Heisler, “Advanced Vehicle Technology”. Butterworth Heinemann
Publishers, 2002.
2. Crouse W H, “Automobile Electrical Equipment” , McGraw Hill Book Co., Inc.,
New York 3rd edition,1986.
REFERENCES:
1. Garrett T K, Newton K. and Steeds W. “Motor Vehicle”, Butter Worths & Co.
Publishers Ltd., New Delhi, 2001.
2. Kholi P L, “Automotive Electrical Equipment”, Tata McGraw Hill Co., Ltd.,
New Delhi, 1975.
3. Crouse W H, "Automotive Chassis and Body," McG raw Hill Book Co., 5th
edition, 1976.
4. .Giri N K, Automotive Mechanics, Khanna Publications, 2006.
114
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective- I 3 0 3
(5BS71) PROFESSIONAL ETHICS AND HUMAN VALUES
Introduction:
Human values and ethics have a significant role to play in the betterment of our
society. Ethics and values are a liberating force, enabling higher performance, better
quality relationships and an expanded sense of purpose and identity. This syllabus
aims to present a framework for understanding human values and their role in life,
work, business and leadership. It aims to transform individuals from having self-
focused, survivalist mindset that has scant regard for ethics, through to compliance
with laws and conventions, and then to the aspiration to live a higher ethical and
spiritual life.
It mainly focuses on improving the capacities of leadership /management through
training in human values and professional ethics. It serves to contribute to good
governance in the organizations and foster an environment that supports and
encourages just practices and fair play.
Course Objectives:
• Create an awareness on Engineering Ethics and Human Values
• Study the moral issues and decisions confronting individuals and
organizations engaged in engineering profession
• Study the related issues about the moral ideals, character, policies, and
relationships of people and corporations involved in technological activity
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Learn the moral issues and problems in engineering; find the solution to
those problems
• Learn the need for professional ethics, codes of ethics and roles, concept of
safety, risk assessment
• Gain exposure to Environment Ethics & computer ethics; know their
responsibilities and rights
UNIT I
Introduction to Human Values and Ethics Human Values: Morals, Values and
Ethics – Integrity – Work Ethic – ServiceLearning – Civic Virtue – Respect for Others –
Living Peacefully – caring – Sharing –Honesty – Courage – Valuing Time – Co-
operation – Commitment – Empathy – Self-Confidence – Character – Spirituality.
Introduction to Ethical Concepts: Definition of industrial ethics and values, Ethical
rules of industrial worker- Values and Value Judgments -- Moral Rights and Moral rules
121 -- Moral character and responsibilities -- Privacy, confidentiality, Intellectual
property and the law -- Ethics as law.
UNIT II
Understanding Engineering Ethics: Action Oriented- Ethical Vision- Indian Ethos-
Ethics Defined-Engineering Ethics: Various Connotations of Engineering Ethics, Why
Study Engineering Ethics?, Personal and Business Ethics-Ethics and the Law-Senses
of ‘Engineering Ethics’ – Variety of moral issues –Types of inquiry – Moral dilemmas –
115
Moral Autonomy – Kohlberg’s theory –Gilligan’s theory – Consensus and Controversy
– Professions and Professionalism –Professional Ideals and Virtues – Theories about
right action – Selfinterest –Customs and Religion – Uses of Ethical Theories -
Engineering as a Profession -- Professional Societies -- Core Qualities of Professional
Practitioners -- Professional Institutions, Operating in a Pluralistic Society -
Environments and Their Impact - Economic Environment -- Capital Labor-- Price Levels
-- Government Fiscal and Tax Policies – Customers – Technology.
UNIT III
Engineering as Social Experimentation– Comparison with Standard Experiments,
Knowledge Gained Conscientiousness, Relevant Information, Learning from the Past,
Engineers as managers, consultants, and Leaders, Accountability, Engineers as
responsible Experimenters – Codes of Ethics – A Balanced Outlook on Law. Engineers
and Managers -- Organizational complaint procedures - Government agencies
Resolving Employee concerns – Limits on acceptable behavior in large corporations --
Ethical and legal considerations, Organizational responses to offensive behaviour and
harassment.
UNIT IV
Workplace Rights and Responsibilities Professional Responsibility: The basis
and scope of Professional Responsibility -- Professions and Norms of Professional
Conduct -- Ethical Standards versus Profession -- Culpable mistakes -- the Autonomy
of professions and codes of ethics - - Employee status and Professionalism -- Central
Professional Responsibilities of Engineers: The emerging consensus on the
Responsibility for safety among engineers, Hazards and Risks. Safety and Risk –
Assessment of Safety and Risk – Risk Benefit Analysis and reducing risk - Ethical
standards vs. Professional conduct - Collegiality and Loyalty – Respect for Authority –
Collective Bargaining –Confidentiality – Conflicts of Interest – Occupational Crime –
Professional Rights –Employee Rights – Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) –
Discrimination - Organizational complaint procedures - Government agencies -
Resolving Employee concerns.
UNIT V
Ethics in Global Context and Global Issues: Multinational Corporations –
Environmental Ethics – Computer Ethics – Weapons Development – Engineers as
Managers – Consulting Engineers – Engineers as Expert Witnesses and Advisors –
Moral Leadership – Sample Code of Ethics like ASME, ASCE, IEEE, Institution of
Engineers (India), Indian Institute of Materials Management, Institution of Electronics
and Telecommunication Engineers (IETE), India, etc.122.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Ethics in Engineering, Mike Martin and Roland Schinzinger, McGraw Hill.
New York 1996.
2. Ethics in Engineering Practice and Research, Caroline Whitbeck, Elsevier.
3. Engineering Ethics, Govindarajan. M, Natarajan. S, Senthilkumar. V.S,
Prentice Hall of India, 2004.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Ethics, Charles D Fleddermann, Prentice Hall, New Jersey, 2004
(Indian Reprint).
2. Engineering Ethics Concepts and Cases, Charles E Harris, Michael S
Pritchard and Michael J Rabins, Thompson Learning, United States, 2000
116
(Indian Reprint now available).
3. Ethics and the Conduct of Business, John R Boatright, Pearson Education,
New Delhi, 2003.
4. Fundamentals of Ethics for Scientists and Engineers, Edmund G Seebauer
and Robert L Barry, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2001.
5. Ethics in Engineering, Fourth Edition, Mike W. Martin, Rolan Schinzinger, Mc
Graw Hill publishers.
6. Engineering Ethics-An industrial Perspective, Gail Dawn Baura.
7. Ethics and Values in Industrial-Organizational Psychology, Joel Lefkowitz.
117
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CE –I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5CE57) ENGINEERING GEOLOGY LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• To identify the minerals by studying its physical properties
• To classify various types of rocks
• To understand the various concepts of Structural Geology
• To interpret geological maps
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Describe and identify various Minerals
• Distinguish and identify the rocks
• Recognize various types of folds ,faults and joints
• Interpret and draw the sections from geological maps showing horizontal
beds, vertical beds, inclined beds, folds, faults, unconformities.
List of Experiments:
1. Study of physical properties and identification of minerals referred under theory. Feldspar,
Quartz, Flint, Jasper, Olivine, Augite, Hornblende, Muscovite, Biotite, Asbestos, Chlorite,
Kyanite, Garnet, Talc, Calcite. Study of ore forming minerals such as Pyrite, Hematite,
Magnetite, Amethyst, Galena, Pyrolusite, Graphite, Magnesite, and Bauxite,
2. Megascopic description and identification of rocks referred under theory. Granite, Dolerite,
Basalt, Pegmatite, Charnockite, Sandstone, Shale, Limestone, Gneiss, Schist, Quartzite,
Marble and Slate.
3. Drawing of sections for geological maps showing horizontal beds, vertical beds, inclined
beds, folds, faults, unconformities and their interpretation.
118
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5CE58) COMPUTER AIDED DRAFTING OF BUILDINGS LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Practice different Brick bonds.
• Apply the AutoCAD tools to create building plans, sections and elevations from a
given line drawing and specifications.
• Draw different components of Doors and Windows.
• Generate the structural drawings of structural elements.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Use different AutoCAD Commands to develop Plan, Section and elevation of
Buildings.
• Draw and detail different Components of different types of doors and windows.
• Develop Working Drawings of Residential Buildings.
• Prepare structural drawings with details of Beam, Slab and Footing.
1. Brick Bonds: English bond & Flemish bond – Odd & even courses for one, one
and half, two, two and half brick walls.
2. Drawing of plans of single storied Residential buildings.
3. Developing sections and elevations of single storied residential buildings.
4. Detailing of building components: Doors – Panelled and Glazed, Window -
Panelled and Glazed.
5. Exercise on development of working drawings of buildings – Electrical Layout,
Water supply layout, Plumbing layout of Residential Buildings.
6. Introduction to Structural Drawings of Beam, Slab and Footing.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Civil Engineering Drawing-I by N.Sreenivasulu, S.Rama Rao – Radiant Publishing
house, 2nd edition, 2013.
2. Civil Engineering Drawing-II by N.Sreenivasulu – Radiant Publishing house, 2nd
edition, 2013.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Graphics by P.J.Sha-S.Chand & Co, 2nd edition, 2013.
2. Civil Engineering Drawing-I by S.Mahaboob Basha – Falcon Publishers, 2nd
edition, 2013.
3. Building drawing by M G Shah - Tata McGraw-Hill Education, 5th edition,
2012
4. Structural Engineering Drawing by S.Mahaboob Basha – Falcon Publishers,
2nd edition, 2013.
119
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5CE59) CONCRETE LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Perform the test procedures to find Physical properties of Cement
• Understand the test procedures to find Specific Gravity, Bulking of Aggregates.
• Evaluate fresh concrete properties
• Understand the test procedures to find properties of Hardened Concrete
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Test Fineness, Specific Gravity, Setting Time, Soundness and Compressive
Strength of Cement
• Test Specific Gravity of Coarse Aggregate and Fine Aggregate, Bulking of Fine
Aggregate.
• Design Concrete Mix Proportioning by Using Indian Standard Method.
• Test Workability of Fresh Concrete and Compressive strength, Split Tensile
Strength of Hardened Concrete.
LIST OF EXCERCISES
Cycle -I
I. Tests on Cement:
a) Standard Consistency
b) Initial & final Setting Time
c) Specific Gravity
d) Fineness
e) Soundness
f) Compressive Strength
II. Tests on Aggregates:
a) Specific Gravity of Fine Aggregate
b) Specific Gravity of Coarse Aggregate.
c) Bulking of Fine Aggregate.
Cycle –II
III. IS method of mix design of Normal Concrete.
IV. Tests on Fresh Concrete:
a) Slump cone Test
b) Compaction factor Test
c) Vee Bee Test
V. Tests on Hardened Concrete:
a) Compressive & Split Tensile strength Tests.
b) Modulus of Elasticity of Concrete.
c) Non Destructive Testing of concrete (for Demonstration
120
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5CE16) DESIGN OF STEEL STRUCTURES
Course Objective:s
Student shall be able to
• Describe the salient features of Limit State Method of design of Steel
structures.
• Identify and tell the various codal provisions given in IS. 800.
• Analyze the behaviour of steel structures under tension, compression and
flexure.
• Design the tension, compression , flexural members and welded plate girder
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Analyze the tension members, compression members.
• Design the tension members, compression members and column bases
• Analyze and Design the beams including built-up sections.
• Identify and Design the various components of welded plate girder including
stiffeners.
.
UNIT-I :
Introduction to Limit State Design & Connections
Concept of limit state design-Bolted connections-IS:800-2007 specifications-Design
strength-efficiency of joint-prying action-welded connections-Types of welded joints-
specifications-design requirements.
UNIT-II:
Tension Members & Compression Members
Design of tension members-Design strength-Design procedure- splice-lug angles
Design of compression members - buckling - slenderness ratio – Load carrying capacity-
laced columns-battened columns-splice-column base
Slab base-Gusseted base
UNIT-III :
Design of Beams
Design of beams-plastic moment-bending and shear strength/buckling- built up sections-
laterally supported beams
UNIT-IV:
Welded Plate girders
Design of welded plate girder-elements-economical depth-design of main section-
connections between web and flange-design of bearing stiffener-intermediate stiffeners
UNIT –V:
Industrial Buildings
Gantry girder impact factors – longitudinal forces , Design of Gantry girders
TEXT BOOKS
1. Limit state Design of Steel Structures by S K Duggal, TMH, and New Delhi.1ST Edition
2011
2. Design of Steel Structures by N Subramanian, Oxford University Press. 1ST Edition 2011
121
REFERENCES
1. Design of Steel Structures by S.S.Bhavikatti, I.K. International Publishing House Pvt Ltd.
1ST Edition 2011
2. Limit state Design of steel structures by Dr.V L Shaw, Structures Publications, Pune. 1ST
Edition 2010
CODE BOOKS
1. IS: 875 ( Part III)
2. IS 800: 2007 - Indian Code of Practice for Construction in Steel
3. Hand book of Steel Tables.
Note:
Question paper pattern for Final Examination :
The end examination paper should consist of Part-A and Part-B. Part-A consists of two
questions in Design and Drawing out of which one question is to be answered for 24 marks.
Part-B consists of Five questions on design out of which three are to be answered for 36
marks (12 x 3).
122
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE17) IRRIGATION ENGINEERING
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• To describe and explain the fundamental principles and terminologies used in
Irrigation Engineering.
• To explain different Irrigation System components and their significance
• To apply the Engineering Hydrology knowledge for the design of a irrigation
system
• To enable the students to design main components of a Irrigation System
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Students will be able enumerate the fundamental principles and concepts of
Irrigation Engineering.
• At the end of the course student should be able to identify and explain different
components of a irrigation system.
• At the end of the course student should be able to practically apply the
Engineering Hydrology knowledge in the design of a irrigation system.
• At the end of the course student should be able to design main components of a
Irrigation system.
UNIT- I
Introduction to Irrigation Engineering
Necessity and importance of irrigation, Advantages and ill effects of irrigation, Types of
irrigation, Methods of application of irrigation water, Indian agricultural soils, Standards of
quality for irrigation water.
Water Requirements of Crops
Soil-water-plant relationship, Vertical distribution of Soil moisture, Soil moisture constants,
Soil moisture tension, Consumptive use, Estimation of consumptive use, Duty and delta,
factors affecting duty, Depth and frequency of Irrigation, Irrigation efficiencies.
UNIT- II
Reservoir Planning
Selection of Sites for Reservoir, Zones of storage of a reservoir, Reservoir yield, Estimation
of capacity of reservoir using mass curve. Reservoir sedimentation- control, Useful life of
reservoir, Water losses from reservoir
Dams: Gravity Dams
Types of dams, Factors affecting selection of type of dam, Forces acting on a gravity dam,
Causes of failure of a gravity dam, Elementary profile and practical profile of a gravity dam,
Limiting height of a low gravity dam, Stability analysis, Drainage galleries
UNIT- III
Earthen Dams
Types of Earth dams, Causes of failure of earth dam, Criteria for safe design of earth dam,
Seepage through earth dam-graphical method, Measures for control of seepage
Spillways
Necessity of Spill Ways, Location of Spill Ways, Types of spillways, Design principles of
Ogee spillways, Energy Dissipation, Types of spillway gates.
123
UNIT- IV
Diversion Head works
Types of Diversion head works-diversion and storage head works, Weirs and barrages,
Layout of diversion head works, Components, Causes and failure of hydraulic structures on
permeable foundations, Bligh’s creep theory, Khosla’s theory, Determination of uplift
pressure, Thickness of impervious floors using Bligh’s and Khosla’s theory, Exit gradient,
Functions of u/s and d/s sheet piles.
Canal Structures
Canal Falls: Necessity of canal falls, Types of falls and their location, Types of falls and their
location of Sarda type fall, Trapezoidal notch fall and straight glacis fall
Cross drainage works – Types, Selection of suitable type of CD works.
Outlets and Escapes
UNIT- V
Design of Irrigation Canals
Canal Section, Silt Theories –Kennedy’s Theory, design procedure of canals, Silt supporting
capacity, drawbacks, Lacey’s regime theory – design procedure of canals, Comparison of
Kennedy’s and Lacey’s regime theory, Tractive Force Theory
Canal Lining and Water Logging
Causes of Water Logging, Control of Water Logging, Types of canal lining, Design of Lined
Canal
TEXT BOOKS
1. Irrigation Engineering and Hydraulic Structures by S.K. Garg, Khanna
Publishers, 2006
2. Irrigation Engineering and Water Power Engineering by by Dr. B.C.
Punmia , Ashok Kumar Jain, Arun Kumar Jain, Laxmi Publishers, 16th
Edition, 2009
REFERENCES
1. Irrigation and Water Resources Engineering by G.L.Asawa,New Age
Publishers, 2008
2. Irrigation Engineering by S K Mazumdar, Galgotia Publications Pvt Ltd ,
2006
3. Irrigation Engineering by N N Basak, McGraw Hill Education, 1st Edition,
1999
4. Irrigation Engineering by R.K. Sharma and T.K. Sharma, S.Chand
Publishers, Revised Edition 2007
124
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech CE –I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE18) HIGHWAY ENGINEERING
Course Objectives:
The student shall be
➢ Introduced to classification of highways, urban roads and its related planning
process.
➢ Analyze different elements used in design of road geometrics.
➢ Formulate the fundamental principles of traffic flow, traffic characteristics, its
measurements and their interpretation for infrastructure changes or development.
➢ Recognize the importance of road materials used in design of rigid and flexible
pavements.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
➢ The student should classify the roads based on functional classification, describe
design elements as sight distance, horizontal curvature, super elevation, grades,
visibility on vertical curves, cross section elements
➢ The student should use fundamental of physics and mathematical knowledge in
deriving geometric design equations; Plan surveys, preparation of survey forms
and data collection from field for highway geometrical design
➢ The Student shall be able to estimate the basic characteristics of traffic stream
conduct traffic studies and analyze traffic data for improvement of intersections.
➢ The student should explain factors considered for design of pavements and
materials used.
UNIT –I
Highway Development and Planning: Importance of transportation – History of Planned
Highway Development in India- Twenty Year Road development plans - Classification of
roads – Road patterns
Highway Alignment: Highway alignment – Basic requirements – Controlling factors –
Engineering surveys for highway location –Points considered in a new highway project
UNIT – II
Geometric Design of Streets and Highways: Introduction – Factors controlling geometric
design – Cross sectional elements – Sight distances: Stopping sight distance, Overtaking
sight distance – Definitions and derivation of equations for computing sight distances –
Horizontal alignment – Super elevation – Design of super elevation – Extra-widening on
curves - Transition curve – Objectives of providing transition curves – Methods of computing
the length of transition curve – Vertical curves - Intersections – Rotary intersection – Grade
separated intersections (interchanges).
UNIT –III
Traffic Engineering: Introduction – Basic parameters of traffic - Speed, flow and density –
Definitions and their inter-relationship- – Traffic studies – Traffic volume counts: Objectives,
methods and presentation of volume data - Speed studies: Objectives, types of speeds –
Parking parameters and parking studies – Accident studies.
Traffic Control and Management: Introduction – Traffic control devices – Signs;
Classification of road signs and their design specifications- Road markings – Different types
of road markings – Channelization: Objectives of channelization – Traffic signal design by
Webster method.
125
UNIT – IV
Highway materials -Pavement types – Components and their functions – CBR test, Plate
bearing test, tests on aggregate - test on bitumen – Mix design by marshal method.
UNIT – V
Pavement Design: Design factors – Flexible pavement design – IRC method based on CBR
only – Rigid pavement, types of stresses - Calculation of stresses – Design of joints, dowel
bars, tie bars.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Highway Engineering, by C.E.G.Justo and S.K. Khanna, 10th Ed, Nemchand &
Bros, 2013.
2. Principles of Transportation and Highway Engineering, by G.V. Rao, Tata McGrew
Hill, 2010.
REFERENCES:
1. Introduction to Transportation Engineering, by Jotin Khisty, Prentice Hall
Publications, India, 2008.
2. Principles of Transportation Engineering, by Partha Chakroborty and Animesh
Das, Prentice Hall Publications, New Delhi, 2010.
3. Principles, Practice and design of Highway Engineering, by S.K. Sharma, Prentice
Hall Publications, New Delhi, 2012.
4. Traffic Engineering and Transportation Planning, by L.R.kadiyali, Khanna
Purblishers, 2009.
126
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE19) GEO-TECHNICAL ENGINEERING-I
Course Objectives:
The student shall be able
• To improve the basic knowledge of the index and Engineering properties.
• To understand the basic principles of Soil Mechanics and their applications
to solve problems related to Geotechnical Engineering.
• To analyze the student to study the behavior of soils under various stress
conditions.
• To evaluate and determine the strength parameters using standard tests.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Identify the type of soil and check the suitability for civil Engineering
applications.
• Solve and formulate Geotechnical Engineering problems
• Predict probable problems that may be encountered and take precautionary
measures.
• Examine the classical concepts of Soil Mechanics and its necessity.
UNIT – I
Properties of Soil
Historical development-Physical properties of soil-Void ratio-Porosity, Degree of saturation,
Water content, Unit Weights, Specific Gravity-their relationships, Relative density.
Consistency limits-determination and various indices-Plasticity index, Liquidity index-
Significance and Importance, Activity. Classifications: Mechanical analysis-Sieve analysis,
Stoke’s law, hydrometer Analysis, Textural Classification, Structural Classification based on
size – unified soil classification and modification by Bureau of Indian Standards.,Basics of
Clay minerals, mineralogy.
UNIT – II
Permeability and Seepage
Soil water-types, Darcy’s law-Factors affecting permeability, Determination of permeability
by constant head and falling head method as per IS – 2720, field test as per IS – 5529 (part
I)- pumping in test and pumping out test. Permeability of layered soils, Seepage forces,
General flow equation (Laplace equation). Flow net construction and applications,
anisotropic soil conditions, quick sand condition. Uplift pressure, exit gradient, failure due to
piping, Criteria for design of filters.
UNIT – III
Compaction and Consolidation:
Compaction-Factors affecting compaction. Dry density and moisture content relationship.
Zero air voids line. Engineering behavior of compacted soils. Standard Proctor test and
Modified Proctor test as per IS – 2720. Field compaction equipment, Field control of
compaction.
Consolidation: Primary compression and secondary compression, determination of
preconsolidation pressure, Normally consolidated, over consolidated and under consolidated
clays, Oedometer Test, e-p and e-log p curves – compression index, coefficient of
compressibility and coefficient of volume
127
Decrease, Terzaghi’s one dimensional consolidation theory, assumptions, derivation and
application, coefficient of consolidation, time curve fitting methods, initial compression.
UNIT – IV
Stress Distribution in Soils
Effective stress concept, Nature of effective stresses, Effect of water table fluctuations on
effective stress, Effective stress in a soil mass under hydro static condition, capillarity effect
on effective stress. Effective stress under steady seepage condition, failure of structures by
piping, Boussinesq’s theory- point load, line load, strip load, circular and rectangular loaded
areas. Pressure distribution diagram on a horizontal and vertical plane, pressure bulb,
Westergaard's theory, equivalent point load method, Newmark’s chart, Fadum’s chart,
contact pressure, approximate stress distribution method.
UNIT – V
Shear Strength of Soil
Stress strain curve, stress at a point-Mohr circle of stress, Mohr-coulomb failure criteria, pore
pressure, total and effective stress. Peak and residual shear strength. Factors affecting
shear strength. Laboratory measurement of shear strength by direct, unconfined, Vane
shear test and triaxial tests under different drainage conditions. Shear strength
characteristics of sands. Sensitivity and thixotropy of cohesive soils. Shear strength of
sands, critical void ratio and dilatancy, shear strength of clays, total stress analysis and
effective stress analysis
TEXT BOOKS
1. Basic and Applied Soil Mechanics by Gopal Rajan and A.S.R. Rao. New age International
Publishers, Second Edition, 2012
2. Soil Mechanics, Foundation Engineering by V.N.S. Murthy., CBS Publishers & Distributors
Pvt.
Ltd. First Edition, 2013
REFERENCES
1. Soil Mechanics & Foundation Engineering by Dr. B C Punmia, Dr.Ashok.K.Jain, Dr.Arun
K.Jain, Laxmi Publications (P) Ltd., 16th Edition,2005.
2. Soil Mechanics by Craig R.F., Chapman & Hall Edition, Laxmi Publications, 8th Edition,
2012.
3. An Introduction to Geotechnical Engineering, by Holtz R.D., Prentice Hall, NJ, 2nd
Edition, 2010.
4. Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering by Dr. K.R. Arora, Standard Publishers
distributors, Seventh Edition 2011
5. Problems in Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering by Dr.B.P.Verma, Khanna
Publications, 10th Edition, 2010.
128
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CE –II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective-II 3 0 3
(5CE72) INTRODUCTION TO GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able
• To describe and define various concepts of Remote Sensing and GIS.
• To enable the students to analyze data using GIS.
• To make the students appraise the importance of accuracy in GIS.
• To enable the students to apply GIS knowledge in solving various
problems in real world scenario.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• At the end of the course student should be able todescribe different
concepts and terms used in GIS
• At the end of the course student should be able tocompare and process
different data sets
• At the end of the course student should be able toevaluate the accuracy
and decide whether a data set can be used or not.
• Students will be able demonstrate various applications GIS.
UNIT- I:
Introduction to GIS: Introduction, History of GIS, GIS Components, GIS Applications in
Real life, The Nature of geographic data, Maps, Types of maps, Map scale, Types of scale,
Map and Globe, Co-ordinate systems, Map projections, Map transformation, Geo-
referencing,
UNIT- II:
Spatial Database Management System: Introduction: Spatial DBMS, Data storage,
Database structure models, database management system, entity-relationship model,
normalization
Data models and data structures: Introduction, GIS Data model, vector data structure,
raster data structure, attribute data, geo-database and metadata,
UNIT- III:
Spatial Data input and Editing: Data input methods – keyboard entry, digitization,
scanning, conversion of existing data, remotely sensed data, errors in data input, Data
accuracy, Micro and Macro components of accuracy, sources of error in GIS.
Spatial Analysis: Introduction, topology, spatial analysis, vector data analysis, Network
analysis, raster data analysis, Spatial data interpolation techniques
UNIT- IV: Implementing a GIS and Advanced GIS
Implementing a GIS: Awareness, developing system requirements, evaluation of alternative
systems, decision making using GIS
Advanced GIS: WebGIS concept, webGIS fundamentals, Potential of web GIS, Server side
strategies, client side strategies, mixed strategies, webGIS applications
129
UNIT- V:
Applications of GIS
GIS based road network planning, Shortest path detection using GIS, Hazard Zonation using
remote sensing and GIS, GIS for solving multi criteria problems, GIS for business
applications, Mineral mapping using GIS.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Geographic Information systems by Kang-tsung Chang,
McGrawHill Education (Indian Edition), 7th Edition, 2015.
2. Fundamentals of Geographic Information systems by Michael N. Demers, 4th
Edition, Wiley Publishers, 2012.
REFERENCES
1. Remote Sensing and GIS by Basudeb Bhatta, Oxford University Press, 2nd
Revised Edition, 2011.
2. Textbook of Remote Sensing and Geographical Information systems by M.Anji
Reddy, B.S.Publications, 4th Edition, 2012.
3. Textbook of Remote Sensing and Geographical Information systems by Kali
Charan Sahu, Atlantic Publishers and Distributors, 1st Edition, 2007.
4. Geographic Information systems – An Introduction by Tor Bernhardsen, Wiley
India Publication, 3rd Edition, 2010.
130
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective -II 3 0 3
(5EE72) ENERGY AUDITING CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives:
• To understand the necessity of conservation of Energy.
• To know the methods of Energy management.
• To identity the factors to increase the efficiency of electrical equipment.
• To know the benefits of carrying out energy Audits.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• To conduct Energy Audit of industries.
• To manage energy Systems
• To specify the methods of improving efficiency of electric motor.
• To improve power factor and to design a good illumination system
• To calculate pay back periods for energy saving equipment.
UNIT I
BASIC PRINCIPLES OF ENERGY AUDIT
Energy audit- definitions, concept , types of audit, energy index, cost index ,pie charts,
Sankey diagrams, load profiles, Energy conservation schemes- Energy audit of
industries- energy saving potential, energy audit of process industry, thermal power
station, building energy audit
UNIT II
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Principles of energy management, organizing energy management program, initiating,
planning, controlling, promoting, monitoring, reporting- Energy manager, Qualities and
functions, language, Questionnaire - check list for top management
UNIT III
ENERGY EFFICIENT MOTORS
Energy efficient motors, factors affecting efficiency, loss distribution, constructional
details, characteristics - variable speed, variable duty cycle systems, RMS hp- voltage
variation-voltage unbalance- over motoring- motor energy audit
UNIT IV
POWER FACTOR IMPROVEMENT, LIGHTING AND ENERGY INSTRUMENTS
Power factor – methods of improvement, location of capacitors, p.f with non-linear
loads, effect of harmonics on p.f. , p.f motor controllers - Good lighting system design
and practice, lighting control, lighting energy audit - Energy Instruments- watt meter,
data loggers, thermocouples, pyrometers, flux meters, tongue testers ,application of
PLC’s
UNIT V
ECONOMIC ASPECTS AND ANALYSIS
Economics Analysis-Depreciation Methods, time value of money, rate of return, present
worth method, replacement analysis, life cycle costing analysis- Energy efficient
131
motors- calculation of simple payback method, net present worth method- Power factor
correction, lighting - Applications of life cycle costing analysis, return on investment.
TEXT BOOKS
1) Energy management by W.R. Murphy & G. Mckay Butter worth, Heinemann
publications.
2) Energy management by Paul o’ Callaghan, Mc-graw Hill Book company-1st
edition, 1998
REFERENCES:
1) Energy efficient electric motors by John .C. Andreas, Marcel Dekker Inc Ltd-
2nd edition, 1995-
2) Energy management handbook by W.C.Turner, John wiley and sons
3) Energy management and good lighting practice: fuel efficiency- booklet12-
EEO
132
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective- II 3 0 3
(5ME72) OPTIMIZATION TECHNIQUES
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Operation Research
Course Objectives:
• To understand the classification of optimization techniques and its practical
use.
• To understand about the optimization of one dimensional optimization
methods.
• To knows about constrained minimization methods.
• To understands Geometric and dynamic programings.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply the different types of optimization techniques for different purposes.
• Formulates and solve the problems by using one dimensional unconstrained
minimization methods.
• Formulates and solve the problems (industrial/research) by using the
geometric programming.
• Formulate and solve the industrial problems by using the dynamic
programming methods.
UNIT I
Introduction: Engineering Applications; Statement of the Optimal Problem:
Classification; Optimization Techniques. Classical Methods: Single Variable
Optimization; Multivariable Optimization without any Constraints with Equality and
Inequality Constraints.
UNIT II
One-Dimensional Minimization Methods: Uni-model Function; Elimination Methods –
Dichotomous Search, Fibonacce and Golden Section Methods; Interpolation Methods –
Quadratic and Cubic Interpolation Methods.
UNIT III
Unconstrained Minimization Methods: Univariate, Conjugate Directions, Gradient and
Variable Metric Methods. Constrained Minimization Methods: Characteristics of a
constrained problem; Direct Methods of feasible directions; Indirect Methods of interior
and exterior penalty functions.
UNIT IV
Geometric Programming: Formulation and Solutions of Unconstrained and Constrained
geometric programming problems.
133
UNIT V
Dynamic Programming: Concept of Sub-optimization and the principle of optimality;
Calculus, Tabular and Computational Methods in Dynamic Programming; An
Introduction to Continuous Dynamic Programming.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Optimization (Theory & Applications) – S.S. Rao, Wiley Eastern Ltd., New
Delhi.
2. Optimization Concepts and Applications in Engineering - Ashok D.Belegundu
and Tirupathi R Chandrupatla -- Pearson Education.
REFERENCES:
1. Optimization: Theory and Practice, C.S.G. Beveridge and R.S. Schechter,
MGH, New York.
2. Genetic Algorithms in search, Optimization and Machine, Goldberg D. E.,
Addison-Wesley-NewYork.
3. Optimization for Engineering Design Algorithms and Examples, Kalyanamoy
Deb, Prentice Hall of India.
134
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective- II 3 0 3
(5EC72) INTRODUCTION TO MICRO PROCESSORS AND CONTROLLERS
Course Objectives:
• Differentiate various number systems
• Develop simple application using 8085 microprocessors
• Develop simple applications using 8051 microcontrollers
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Understand basic computing concepts
• Know architecture of 8085 micro processors and 8051 Microcontrollers
• Interface peripherals to microprocessor
• Program internal resources of 8051 microcontroller
UNIT I
Introduction to Computing
Numbering and Coding Systems: Binary, Decimal, Hexadecimal and conversions,
Binary and Hexadecimal Arithmetic, Complements, Alphanumeric codes. Digital
Premier, Inside the Computer
UNIT II
8085 Microprocessor
Features, Architecture and operation of 8085, Programming Model, External Memory
for 8085
UNIT III
Programmable Peripheral Devices
Programmable Peripheral Interface (8255), USART (8251), Programmable Interval
Timer (8253) and interfacing.
UNIT IV
8051 Microcontrollers
Microcontrollers and Embedded Processors, Overview of the 8051 family, Architecture
and Programming Model of 8051, Timers and Counters, parallel and serial ports,
Interrupts, Special Function Register formats, Internal Memory Organization
UNIT V
Applications
8051 Programming in C: Data types for the 8051, programs for IO operations,
programs on Timer operations, Serial IO ports, and interrupts, Case Study: DC Motor
Control
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Microprocessor Architecture, Programming and Applications with the
8085/8080A, Gaonkar
135
2. The 8051 Microcontroller and Embedded Systems: Using Assembly and C,
2nd Edition, Muhammad Ali Mazidi,Janice Gillispie Mazidi, Rolin D. McKinlay
REFERENCES:
1. The 8051 Microcontroller : programming, architecture by Ayala & Gadre,
Cengage Publications
2. Digital Design – Morris Mano, PHI, 3rd Edition, 2006.
136
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5EC95) WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS AND NETWORKS
Prerequisite: Computer Networks
Course Objectives:
• Understand fundamentals of wireless communications
• Know basics of wireless networks
• Differentiate fixed IP and Mobile IP
• Learn design of basic wireless LAN network
Course outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the fundamental concepts of Cellular communications
• Differentiate various multiple access techniques
• Learn wireless protocols used in wireless Networks
• Understand mobile IP requirements
UNIT I
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS & SYSTEM FUNDAMENTALS:
Introduction to wireless communications systems, examples, comparisons & trends. Cellular
concepts-frequency reuse, strategies, interference & system capacity, trunking and grade of
service, improving coverage &capacity in cellular systems.
UNIT II
MULTIPLE ACCESS TECHNIQUES FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATION:
FDMA, TDMA, SSMA (FHMA/CDMA/Hybrid techniques), SDMA technique (AS applicable to
wireless communications). Packet radio access-protocols, CSMA protocols ,reservation
protocols ,capture effect in packet radio , capacity of cellular systems .
UNIT III
WIRELESS NETWORKING:
Introduction, differences in wireless & fixed telephone networks, traffic routing in wireless
networks –circuit switching, packet switching X.25 protocol. Wireless data services – cellular
digital packet data (CDPD), advanced radio data information systems, RAM mobile data
(RMD). Common channel signaling (CCS), ISDN-Broad band ISDN & ATM, Signalling
System no .7(SS7)-protocols, network services part, user part, signaling traffic, services and
performance.
UNIT IV
MOBILE IP AND WIRELESS APPLICATION PROTOCOL:
Mobile IP Operation of mobile IP, Co-located address, Registration, Tunneling, WAP
Architecture, overview, WML scripts, WAP service, WAP session protocol, wireless
transaction, Wireless datagram protocol.
137
UNIT V
WIRELESS LAN TECHNOLOGY:
Infrared LANs, Spread spectrum LANs, Narrow bank microwave LANs, IEEE 802 protocol
Architecture, IEEE802 architecture and services, 802.11 medium access control, 802.11
physical layer.
BLUE TOOTH: Overview, Radio specification, Base band specification, Links manager
Specification, Logical link control and adaptation protocol. Introduction to WLL Technology.
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Wireless Communication and Networking – William Stallings, PHI, 2003.
2. Wireless Communications, Principles, Practice – Theodore, S. Rappaport, PHI, 2nd
Edn.,2002.
3. Principles of Wireless Networks – Kaveh Pah Laven and P. Krishna Murthy,Pearson
Education, 2002.
REFERENCES:
1. Wireless Digital Communications – Kamilo Feher, PHI, 1999Page 26 of 38
138
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(5CS72) OPEN SOURCE TECHNOLOGIES
Course Objectives:
1. Understand Perl, Python, PHP and Ruby to new situations and learn from the
experience.
2. Assist Perl programmer or database administrator to compile large programming
set.
3. Incorporate PHP into HTML files, Write basic PHP scripts, Process form input,
Write and use functions.
4. Apply advanced techniques, tools, and methodologies that can be used to build
complex, scalable, PHP applications.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
1. Apply regular expressions to tokenize and validate data in a variety of
languages
2. Utilize Ruby to solve a wide range of text processing problems
3. Understand the nuances and differences in a web based environment as
compared to more traditional environments
4. Distinguish variety of languages to develop interactive web applications
UNIT I
Introduction to PERL
Scripts and Programs, Origin of Scripting, Scripting Today, Characteristics of Scripting
Languages, Web Scripting, and the universe of Scripting Languages. PERL- Names
and Values, Variables, Scalar Expressions, Control Structures, arrays, list, hashes,
strings, pattern and regular expressions, subroutines, advance Perl - finer points of
looping, pack and unpack, file system, eval, data structures, packages, modules,
objects, interfacing to the operating system, Creating Internet ware applications, Dirty
Hands Internet Programming, security Issues.
UNIT II
PHP Basics
PHP Basics- Features Embedding PHP Code in your Web pages, Outputting the data
to the browser, Data types, Variables, Constants, expressions, string interpolation,
control structures . Function, Creating a Function, Function Libraries, Arrays, strings
and Regular Expressions.
UNIT III
Advanced PHP Programming
PHP and Web Forms, Files, PHI3 Authentication and Methodologies -Hard Coded, File
Based, Database Based, IP Based, Login Administration, Uploading Files with PHI3,
Sending Email using PHP, PHI3Encryption Functions, the Merypt package, Building
Web sites for the World - Translating Websites- Updating Web sites Scripts, Creating
the Localization Repository, Translating Files, text. Generate Binary Files, Set the
desired language within your scripts. Localizing Dates, Numbers and Times.
139
UNIT IV
Python
Introduction to Python language, python-syntax,statements,functions,Built-in-functions
and Methods, Modules in python, Exception Handling, Integrated Web Applications in
Python - Building Small, Efficient Python Web Systems ,Web Application Framework.
UNIT V
Ruby
Basics of Ruby, classes, objects and variable, arrays, Exception Handling ,threads,
Regular Expressions, Strings, Objects in Ruby
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Programming Perl Larry Wall, T.Christiansen and J.Orwant, O’Reiily,SPD.
2. Guide to Programming with Python, M.Dawson, Cengage Learning.
REFERENCES:
1. The Ruby Programming Language 1st Edition by David Flanagan
2. Professional PHP Programming by Jesus M. Castagnetto , Harish
Rawat , Deepak T. Veliath (WROX publication)
3. Perl Power, J.P.Flynt, Cengage Learning.
4. Perl by Example, E, QuigIey, Pearson Education.
5. Programming Ruby: The Pragmatic Programmer's Guide, by Pragmatic Dave
Thomas, Andy Thomas
140
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective- II 3 0 3
(5EI72) LABVIEW PROGRAMMING
Course Objectives:
The Objective of this course is to make the students:
1. Understand the new concept in measurement and automation.
2. Understand how to control an external measuring device by interfacing a
computer.
3. Competent in data acquisition and instrument control.
4. Program for networking and other applications like Digital image processing
control system and signal processing.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Develop a Virtual Instrument using LabVIEW to communicate with real world.
• Identify salient traits of a virtual instrument and incorporate these traits in their
projects.
• Experiment, analyze and document in the laboratory prototype measurement
• Develop program for application like networking, Digital image processing
,control system, etc
UNIT I
VIRTUAL INSTRUMENTATION:
Historical perspective, advantages, block diagram and architecture of a virtual
instrument, data-flow techniques, graphical programming in data flow, comparison with
conventional programming. Development of Virtual Instrument using GUI, Active X
Programming.
UNIT II
STRUCTURES AND SEQUENCE:
Controlling program execution with structures: While and For loops, Shift registers,
Case and Sequence structure and Sub VI
UNIT III
COMPOSITE DATA AND DISPLAYS:
Arrays and Structures: Two dimension array, Auto Indexing to set the for loop count,
Building arrays with auto indexing, Array Acrobats, Polymorphism, Cluster Order,
Cluster to pass data, Bundling and unbundling cluster, Interchangeable arrays and
cluster , Error Cluster and Error handling functions:
Chart update modes, Single Plot chart, Wiring multiple plot chart, Single Plot verus
Multiple plot data types, The X scroll bar, clearing the chart, Stacked and overlaid
plots, Multiple Y scales and chart history lengths.: Activity: Temperature monitor,
Graphing a sine wave, XY plot to plot a circle, Temperature analysis and 3D graphs.
UNIT IV
STRINGS, FILE OUTPUT AND SIGNAL MEASUREMENTS AND GENERATION:
Single line strings, online string updation, Scroll bar, Writing and reading a
measurement file,Writing and reading from a spread sheet,Computer to real world
141
interface using LabVIEW, Creating Ni DAQ Task in Measurement and Automation
Explorer (MAX), Generating code from MAX, DAQ timing and trigger, Multichannel and
continuous acquisition, Streaming Data file and Counting frequency and events.VI
Chassis requirements. Common Instrument Interfaces: Current loop, RS 232C/ RS485,
GPIB.
UNIT V
APPLICATIONS:
Networking basics for office & Industrial applications, VISA and IVI, VI toolsets,
Distributed I/O modules, Development of Control system, Industrial Communication,
Image acquisition and processing,
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Gary Johnson, LabVIEW Graphical Programming, 2nd edition,McGraw Hill,
Newyork, 1997.
2. Lisa K. wells & Jeffrey Travis, LabVIEW for everyone, Prentice Hall, New
Jersey, 1997.
REFERENCES:
1. Kevin James, PC Interfacing and Data Acquisition: Techniques for
Measurement, Instrumentation and Control, Newnes,2000.
2. Rick Bitter ,LabVIEW advanced programming technique, 2nd Edition, CRC
Press,2005
3. Jovitha Jerome, Virtual Instrumentation using LabVIEW, 1st Edition, PHI,
2001.
142
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5EI79) FUNDAMENTALS OF ROBOTICS
Course Objectives
The course is intended for students to:
· Understand the Robot coordinate system and control system
· Learn different types of Robot sensors and actuators
· Identify different types of Robot grippers and their applications.
· Acquire Knowledge on kinematics and vision systems used for different Robots
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
· Gain knowledge about basic concepts of robots.
· Appreciate the usage of different actuators, sensors and grippers in Robotics.
· Analyze the direct and the inverse kinematic problems.
· Able to identify the applications of Machine Vision in Robotics.
UNIT I:
Basic Concepts:
An over view of Robotics, classification of Robots, Robot Components, Robot degrees of
freedom, Robot Joints, Robot Coordinates, Robot reference frames, Programming modes,
Robot Characteristics.
UNIT II:
Sensors:
Sensor characteristics, Position sensors, Velocity sensors, Acceleration sensors, Force and
Pressure sensors, Torque sensors, Microswitches, Light and infrared sensors, Touch and
tactile sensors, Proximity sensors, Range finders.
Unit III:
Actuators and Grippers:
Characteristics of actuating system, Comparison of actuating systems, Hydraulic actuators,
Pneumatic devices, Electric motors, Magneto-strictive actuators, Shape-Memory Metals,
Electro-active Polymer Actuators.
Classification of Grippers, Drive system for Grippers, Mechanical Grippers, Magnetic
Grippers, Vacuum Grippers, Adhesive Grippers, Hooks and Scoops, Gripper Force analysis
and design, Active and Passive Grippers.
UNIT IV:
Kinematics:
Robots as Mechanisms, Matrix Representation, Homogeneous Transformation Matrices,
Representation of Transformations, Inverse of Transformation Matrices, Forward and Inverse
Kinematics with Equations.
143
UNIT V:
Vision:
Image acquisition, Illumination Techniques, Imaging Geometry, Basic Relationships between
Pixels, Segmentation, Description, Segmentation and Description of 3-D Structures,
Recognition, Interpretation.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Saeed B. Niku ,Introduction To Robotics : Analysis, Control, Applications ,Wiley,
2nd Edition .
2. Deb.S.R, ”Robotics technology and flexible Automation”, John Wiley
REFERENCES
1. Mikell P Groover, Nicholas G Odrey, Mitchel Weiss, Roger N Nagel, Ashish Dutta,
“Industrial Robotics, Technology programming and Applications", McGraw Hill,
2012.
2. K.S.Fu, R.C.Gonzalez, C.S.G Lee, “Robotics- Control ,Sensing ,Vision and
Intelligence ”,McGraw-Hill International Edition.
3. Klafter. R.D, Chimielewski. T.A, Negin. M, “Robotic Engineering–An integrated
approach”, Prentice Hall of India, New Delhi
144
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective- II 3 0 3
(5IT72) RELATIONAL DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Course Objectives:
• To describe database management systems (DBMS) concepts and relational
data model.
• To employ DBMS concepts to organize, maintain and retrieve information
efficiently and effectively from a DBMS.
• To discuss the concepts of transactions and transaction processing systems
• To examine the issues and techniques relating to concurrency and recovery
in multi-user database environments
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Describe the fundamental concepts of database management. These
concepts include aspects of database design, database languages, and
database-system implementation.
• Employ the Relational Database Model to understand the Logical and
Physical aspects of the DBMS architecture.
• Analyse and apply normal forms for real time database applications.
• Evaluation of transaction properties and file organization methods
UNIT I
Introduction to Databases and Database Management System - Database system
Applications - Advantages of DBMS over File System - Data Models – Instances and
schema - View of Data - Database Languages -DDL-DML - Database Users and
Administrator - Database System Structure.
UNIT II
Database Design and ER diagrams – Attributes and Entity Sets – Relationships and
Relationship Sets – Constraints - Keys - Design Issues - Entity-Relationship Diagram-
Weak Entity Sets - Extended E-R Features - Database Design with ER model -
Database Design for Banking Enterprise
UNIT III
Introduction to the Relational Model – Structure of RDBMS - Integrity Constraints over
Relations – Enforcing Integrity Constraints – Querying Relational Data - Relational
Algebra and Calculus.
Introduction to SQL- Data Definition commands, Data Manipulation Commands, Basic
Structure, Set operations Aggregate Operations - Join operations - Sub queries and
correlated queries, SQL functions , views ,Triggers, Embedded SQL.
UNIT IV
Functional Dependencies– Introduction , Basic Definitions, Trivial and Non trivial
dependencies, closure of a set of dependencies, closure of attributes, irreducible set of
dependencies- Schema Refinement in Database Design- Problems Caused by
Redundancy – Decompositions – Problem Related to Decomposition –- Lossless Join
145
Decomposition – Dependency Preserving Decomposition - FIRST, SECOND, THIRD
Normal Forms – BCNF –– Multi valued Dependencies – Fourth Normal Form.
UNIT V
Transaction concept- Transaction state- Implementation of atomicity and Durability-
Concurrent executions – Serializability, Recoverability
File Organization – Organization of records in file - Data Dictionary Storage – Indexing
and Hashing – Basic Concepts , Ordered Indices,B+Tree Index files, B- tree index files
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Database System Concepts, Silberschatz, Korth , Fifth Edition, McGraw hill.
2. Introduction to Database Systems, C.J.Date, Pearson Education.
REFERENCES:
1. Fundamentals of Database Systems, Elmasri Navrate Pearson Education
2. Database Management Systems, Raghu ramakrishnan, Johannes Gehrke,
TATA Mc Graw Hill.
3. Data base Systems design, Implementation, and Management, Peter Rob
and Carlos Coronel 7th Edition.
4. Data Base Systems using Oracle : A simplified guide to SQL and PL /SQL,
Shah, PHI
146
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(5AE72) MODERN AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGIES
Course Prerequisites: Principles of automobile engineering
Course Objectives:
• Provide an overview on advanced engine control system concepts
• Study the concepts and drivetrain configurations of electric and hybrid electric
vehicles
• Present principle, working and automotive applications of fuel cell and solar
technology
• Aware of intelligent vehicle technologies like navigation, safety, security and
comfort systems
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply advanced engine control system concepts in engineering
• Discuss electric and hybrid electric drivetrain technologies and drivetrain
components
• Describe automotive applications of fuel cell and solar technology
• Appreciate the technological advancements driver assistance systems
UNIT I
ADVANCED ENGINE CONTROLS: Concept of an electronic engine control system,
electronic fuel injection - throttle body fuel injection, multi point fuel injection, gasoline
direct injection, common rail direct injection, electronic ignition control, engine mapping,
on-board diagnostics – engine control module and powertrain control module.
UNIT II
ELECTRIC AND HYBRID VEHICLES: Electric vehicles - Layout of an electric vehicle,
performance, energy consumption, advantage and limitations. Hybrid electric vehicles -
Concepts, types of hybrid drive train architecture, merits and demerits.
UNIT III
FUEL CELL AND SOLAR VEHICLES: Fuel cell vehicle – Operating principle, types of
fuel cells, fuel cell options for fuel cell vehicle and fuel cell hybrid vehicle. Solar vehicle
- Solar photovoltaic cell, solar array, solar car electrical system and drive train.
UNIT IV
TELEMATICS AND COMFORT SYSTEMS: Global positioning system, geographical
information systems, navigation system, automotive vision system, adaptive cruise
control system, active suspension system, power steering and power windows.
UNIT V
SAFETY AND SECURITY SYSTEMS: Active and passive safety, airbags, seat belt
tightening system, collision warning systems, anti lock braking systems, traction control
147
system, electronic immobilizers, remote keyless entry, smart card system, number
plate coding.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. William B Riddens, “Understanding Automotive Electronics”, 5th edition, Butter
worth Heinemann Woburn,1998.
2. Mehrdad Ehsani, Yimin Gao, Sebastien E. Gay and Ali Emadi, “Modern Electric,
Hybrid Electric and Fuel Cell Vehicles: Fundamentals, Theory and Design”,
CRC Press, 2005.
REFERENCES:
1. “Automotive Hand Book” Robert Bosch, SAE, 5th edition, 2000.
2. Ljubo Vlacic, Michel Parent and Fumio Harashima, “Intelligent Vehicle
Technologies”, Butterworth-Heinemann publications, Oxford, 2001.
3. Iqbal Husain, “Electric and Hybrid Vehicles: Design Fundamentals, CRC Press,
2003.
4. “Navigation and Intelligent Transportation Systems – Progress in Technology”,
Ronald K Jurgen, Automotive Electronics Series, SAE, USA, 1998.
148
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective- II 3 0 3
(5BS72) ENTERPRENEURESHIP
Course Objectives:
• To introduce basics of entrepreneurship development and the skills set
required for innovation.
• To understand changing business trends to enhance decision making skills.
• To learn analytical and conceptual skills of identifying opportunities and check
on their feasibility for start-ups.
• To motivate the engineers to choose entrepreneurship as a career for
personal and societal growth.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the students are able:
• To identify business opportunities and equip themselves in preparing
business plans
• To analyze and evaluate different proposals and its requirements for start-
up’s.
• To pitch the ideas to launch their own venture.
• To assess the impact of competition and find methods to overcome the
problems in business.
UNIT-1:
Entrepreneurial Skills-Opportunities
Entrepreneurship as a career, Personality and Skill Set of Entrepreneur, The Wisdom
of Five WHY’s and in action, Value and Growth-Stories of Successful Enterprises.
Innovation and Entrepreneurship: Three Learning Milestones of Innovation: Use of
Minimum Viable Product-Startup’s must tune the baseline towards the ideal-Pivot or
Persevere.
UNIT-2:
Changing Business Environment-Role of Entrepreneur
The Role of Quality and Design, Beyond “The right place at the right time”, Current
trends in Business, Entrepreneurial Management.
UNIT-3:
Origins Of Lean Start-up-Business Plans
The Concept of Vision to Steering: From Start-Define-Learn-Experiment to Leap-Test-
Measure-Pivot.
UNIT-4:
Validation of Projects and Products
Projects Evaluation by Budgeting Techniques, Value vs Waste, Analogs and Antilogs,
Analysis Paralysis, Why first products are not meant to be perfect-Experiences,
Forecasting and Experimenting of Products.
149
UNIT-5:
Start-up Methods and Understanding Competition
Accelerating Start-up’s, optimization versus learning, Kanban Diagram of work as it
progresses from stage to stage, the value of three A’s: Actionable, Accessible and
Auditable, Engines of growth to determine product/market fit,adopting smaller batches,
reasons for Failures in Start-up’s, Pricing Strategies Based On Competition
TEXT BOOKS:
1. EricRies, “The Lean Startup”, Crown Business, New York. v.3.1.
2. Hisrich, Entrepreneurship, Tata McGraw Hill, New Delhi, 2001.
3. S.S.Khanka, Entrepreneurial Development, S.Chand and Company Limited,
New Delhi, 2001.
REFERENCES:
1. Mathew Manimala, Entrepreneurship Theory at the Crossroads, Paradigms &
Praxis,Biztrantra ,2nd Edition ,2005
2. Prasanna Chandra, Projects – Planning, Analysis, Selection, Implementation
and Reviews,Tata McGraw-Hill, 1996.
3. P.Saravanavel, Entrepreneurial Development, Ess Pee kay Publishing
House, Chennai -1997.
4. Arya Kumar. Entrepreneurship. Pearson. 2012
5. Donald F Kuratko, T.V Rao. Entrepreneurship: A South Asian perspective.
Cengage Learning.2012
150
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CE –II Sem L T/P/D C
0 0 3 2
5
(5CE60) GEO-TECHNICAL ENGINEERING LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
The Student shall be able to
• Know the concepts of various types of soils.
• Apply the knowledge of science, mathematics and engineering with the
context of applications in geotechnical engineering.
• Describe various characteristics of soils to decide the problems related to
foundational engineering
• Solve the problems encountered in real world situation.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Identify the various types of soils existing at the site.
• Decide the soil stabilization techniques if required to make the soil suitable
for particular project.
• Predict probable problems that may be encountered in any project.
• Suggest the remedial measures to solve the problems encountered in
existing problems.
List of Experiments:
1. Determination of Moisture Content and Specific Gravity
2. Field Density Tests
A. Core cutter method
B. Sand replacement method
3. Grain Size Analysis
A. Sieve Analysis
B. Hydrometer Analysis
4. Determination of Consistency Limits
5. Permeability Test
A. Constant Head Method
B. Falling Head Method
6. CBR Test
7. Proctor Light And Heavy Compaction Test
8. Vane Shear Test
9. Direct Shear Test
10. Unconfined Compression Test
11. Unconsolidated and Undrained Triaxial Test
151
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5CE61) TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• learn on test on aggregates materials used road constructions
• gain knowledge on Bitumen grading used for flexible pavement construction.
• analyze different tests on Bitumen materials along with its specifications.
• examine test performed for Bitumen mixes.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Categorize aggregate used in pavements along with its suitability
• Identify and select the various Design strategies of pavement using Lab
Equipment.
• Appraise on bitumen grades.
• Evaluate stability parameters of bitumen mixes.
Test on Road Aggregates
1. Aggregate Crushing Value
2. Aggregate Impact Value
3. Los Angeles Abrasion Test.
4. Shape Tests a) Elongation Index, b) Flakiness Index, c) Angularity Number.
5. Specific Gravity & Water absorption
Test on Bitumen
1. Penetration Test, Softening Point test, Ductility Test
2. Flash & Fire Point Test.
3. Absolute Viscosity
4. Kinematic Viscosity
5. Bitumen Extraction Test
Test on Bituminous Mixes
Marshal Stability Test (Demo)
*Note: Bituminous Mix design is carried as per MoRT&H & IRC specifications.
152
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS03) ADVANCED ENGLISH COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
Introduction:
This course aims to offer students a practical approach to Technical Writing, and
provide a relevant, contemporary and authoritative introduction to the dynamic field of
technical communication that prepares them for Workplace Communication. Each unit
in the syllabus is devised so as to include a writing component as well as an oral
component.
Course Objectives:
• enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content to write
business letters, resume, SOP, Proposals and Technical Reports for
academics as well as for workplace
• enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific
target audience
• groom students to speak accurately and fluently and prepare them for real
world activities through behavioral skills.
• train students in soft skills through role play and group discussion to improve
their EQ.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• summarize and synthesize information and produce technical writing that is
required in academics as well as in the engineering profession
• write covering letters, resume, SOP, Project Proposals and Technical Reports
• speak fluently and address a large group of audience and participate in
debates and discussions.
• negotiate terms, manage complex situations through interpersonal skills,
persuade people and make quick decisions.
Methodology:
Writing Component
A Process- Genre methodology will be used in teaching the technical genres. This
method would enable students to understand the use of particular lexico-grammatical
patterns required of in the context of technical writing. They would learn to use
language to express the particular communicative intent that is required of in the
context of writing these genres.
UNIT I
• Oral Communication :Talking About Yourself
• Applications and Covering letters
• Resume Writing
• Verbal Ability: Vocabulary ( Technical and Non-Technical) reading and
listening (analysis and reasoning)
UNIT II
• Oral Communication: Making Presentations
153
• Writing an SOP
• Summarizing and Synthesizing Information
UNIT III
• Oral Communication: Group Discussions
• Writing Abstracts
UNIT IV
• Oral Communication: Debate
• Writing Reports
Unit V
Soft Skills
TEXT AND MATERIALS
• Ashraf Rizvi, M (2005). Effective Technical Communication, Tata Mc Graw
Hill Publishing Company Limited, New Delhi.
• Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical
Communication: A Reader-Centered Approach ( 5th ed..) (pp. 457-473).
Boston: Heinle.
• William S. Pfeiffer, (2012) Technical Communication: A Practical Approach
(7th ed.) Longman
REFERENCES:
• Burnett, Rebecca. Technical Communication. 5th Ed., Heinle, 2001.
• Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson : Technical Writing Process and
Product. 3rd edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
• Markel, Mike. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies (8th
EDITION (2006-2007)
• R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan, Business Correspondence and Report
Writing, Third Edition, TMH, 2002. (Indian Edition)
• M. Raman and S. Sharma, Technical Communication : Principles and
Practices, OUP, 2004. (Indian Edition)
154
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I V Year B. Tech CE - I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE20) GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM
Course Objectives:
Student shall able to
• To describe and define various concepts of Remote Sensing and GIS.
• To enable the students to analyze Remote sensing and GIS data.
• To make the students appraise the importance of accuracy of remote
sensing and GIS data
• To enable the students to apply Remote Sensing and GIS knowledge in
solving various Civil Engineering related problems.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• At the end of the course student should be able to describe different
concepts and terms used in Remote Sensing and GIS
• At the end of the course student should be able to compare and process
different data sets
• At the end of the course student should be able to evaluate the accuracy and
decide whether a data set can be used or not.
• Students will be able demonstrate various applications in RS and GIS.
UNIT – I
Introduction to Photogrammetry Introduction to aerial photography and
photogrammetry. Principle and types of aerial photographs, stereoscopy, Map, Map Vs
Mosaic, ground control, points,Parallax measurements for height, determinations.
UNIT – II
Concepts of Remote Sensing Basics of remote sensing- elements involved in remote
sensing, electromagnetic spectrum, remote sensing terminology & units, energy
resources, energy interactions with earth surface features & atmosphere, atmospheric
effects, satellite orbits, Sensor Resolution, types of sensors. Remote Sensing Platforms
and Sensors, IRS satellites.
UNIT – III
Remote Sensing Data Interpretation Visual interpretation techniques, basic elements,
converging evidence, interpretation for terrain evaluation, spectral properties of soil,
water and vegetation. Concepts of Digital image processing, image enhancements,
qualitative & quantitative analysis and pattern recognition, classification techniques and
accuracy estimation.
UNIT – IV
Geographic Information System Introduction, GIS definition & terminology, GIS
categories, components of GIS, fundamental operations of GIS, A theoretical
framework for GIS, Data collection & input overview, data input & output, keyboard
entry & co-ordinate geometry procedure, manual digitizing & scanning, Raster GIS,
155
Vector GIS-File management, Spatial dataLayer based GIS, Feature based GIS
mapping spatial analysis with raster and vector data. overview of GPS.
UNIT – V
Applications of Remote Sensing and GIS Land Use Land Cover mapping, agricultural
applications, oceanographic applications, urban and regional planning applications,
water resources applications, environmental studies and disaster management
applications
TEXT BOOKS
1. Remote Sensing and Image Interpretation by Thomas M. Lillesand and Ralph
W.Kiefer, Wiley Publishers, 7th Edition, 2015.
2. Remote Sensing and GIS by Basudeb Bhatta , Oxford University Press, 2nd
Edition, 2011.
REFERENCES
1. Advanced Surveying: Total Station, GIS and Remote Sensing by Satheesh
Gopi, R.SathiKumar, N.Madhu, Pearson Education, 1st Edition, 2007.
2. Textbook of Remote Sensing and Geographical Information systems by
M.Anji Reddy, B.S.Publications, 3rd Edition, 2006.
3. Textbook of Remote Sensing and Geographical Information systems by Kali
Charan Sahu, Atlantic Publishers and Distributors, 1st Edition, 2007.
4. Introduction to Geographic Information systems by Kang-tsung Chang,
McGrawHill Education (Indian Edition), 7th Edition, 2013.
156
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CE –I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE21) GEO-TECHNICAL ENGINEERING-II
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• To create ability to solve foundation engineering design and problems
associated.
• To develop an understanding of sampling techniques in soils.
• To understand the impact of engineering solutions related to the ground
stability.
• To determine the bearing capacity for the design of shallow and deep
foundations.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Correlate the mechanics of soil and apply them in solving the problems
related to foundation engineering.
• Determine the stability of the slopes.
• Design an effective foundation system for economic and safe aspects.
• Develop and apply the knowledge on various problems related to the
different types of foundations and their adoption to site conditions.
UNIT – I
Subsoil Exploration
Methods of subsoil exploration Direct, semi direct and indirect methods, Soundings by
Standard, Dynamic cone and static cone penetration tests, Types of Boring, Types of
samples, Criteria for undisturbed samples, Transport and preservation of samples,
Borelogs, planning of exploration programmes, report writing.
UNIT – II
Earth slope stability
Infinite and finite earth slopes – types of failures – factor of safety of infinite slopes –
stability analysis by Swedish arc method, standard method of slices, Bishop’s
Simplified method– Taylor’s Stability Number- Stability of slopes of earth dams under
different conditions.
UNIT – III
Earth Pressure
Types of Earth pressure. Rankines Active and passive earth pressure, Smooth Vertical
wall with horizontal backfill. Extension to Soil Coloumbs wedge theory, Culmans and
Rebhanns graphical method for active earth pressure. RETAINING WALLS: Types of
retaining walls - Stability of retaining walls.
UNIT – IV
Bearing Capacity
Safe bearing capacity and allowable bearing pressure, Terzaghi’s bearing capacity
equations its modifications for square, rectangular and circular foundation, General and
157
local shear failure conditions. Factors affecting bearing capacity of Soil. Allowable
bearing pressure based on N-values. Bearing capacity from plate load tests. Shallow
Foundations: Factors effecting locations of foundation and design considerations of
shallow foundations, choice of type of foundations. Problems with foundations on
expansive soils.
Settlement analysis
Causes of settlement, Computation of settlement, allowable settlement. Measures to
reduce settlement.
UNIT – V
Deep Foundations
Types, Construction, load carrying capacity of single pile – Dynamic Formula, Static
formula, Pile load tests, Load carrying capacity of pile groups, settlement of pile
groups, Negative skin friction.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Analysis, Design of foundations and Earth retaining structures by Shamsher
Prakash, Gopal Ranjan and Swami Saran, IBH Publishers, 1979
2. Foundation Analysis and Design by J. E. Bowles., TataMc-Graw Hill
Publishers 4th Edition,1996
REFERENCES
1. Foundation Design by W.C Teng, Prentice Hall Publishers
2. Soil Mechanics, Foundation Engineering by V.N.S. Murthy., CBS Publishers
& Distributors Pvt. Ltd. First Edition, 2013
3. Geotechnical Engineering by S.K.Gulhati& Manoj Datta,,Tata McGraw-Hill
Education Pvt.Ltd., First edition 2005.
4. Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering by K.R. Arora, Standard
Publishers Distributors, Seventh Edition, 2011.
5. Problems in Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering by Dr.B.P.Verma,
Khanna Publications, 10th Edition, 2010.
158
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE –I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE22) TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• To introduce students on concepts of railway engineering design and its
related railway components.
• The students should be able to analyze different geometrical elements used
in design of railways.
• The students shall formulate the fundamental parts of aircraft and carry out
runway design in an airport.
• To provide fundamental concepts in identification and understanding the
importance of docks and harbours.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• The student should explain railway track components, its importance and
requirements.
• The student should design elements of track geometry, points and crossings
and concepts of railway signaling
• The student is expected to elaborate on air–craft characteristics, site
selection and perform corrections in runway length design.
• The student should predict the importance and necessity of harbours and
docks in transportation.
UNIT – I
Introduction to Railways
Role of Indian Railways in national development – Railways for Urban Transportation –
LRT , Mono Rail, Metro Rail & MRTS. Permanent Way: Components and their
Functions: Rails - Types of Rails, Rail Fastenings, Concept of Gauges, Coning of
Wheels, Creeps and kinks Sleepers – Functions, Materials, Density – Functions,
Materials, Ballast less Tracks.
UNIT – II
Geometric Design of Railway Track
Gradients and Grade Compensation, Super-Elevation, Widening of Gauges in Curves,
Transition Curves, Horizontal/Vertical Curves.
UNIT – III
Track maintenance and Operation
Points and Crossings - Turnouts, Stations and Yards - Level Crossings. Signaling and
Interlocking - Track Circuiting - Track Maintenance.
UNIT - IV
Airport Engineering
Introduction to Air Transportation - Aircraft Characteristics - Factors Affecting Selection
of site for Airport – Aprons – Taxiway – Hanger – Geometric design - Computation of
159
Runway Length, Correction for Runway Length, Orientation of Runway, Wind Rose
Diagram
UNIT – V
Dock & Harbour Engineering
Water Transportation: Ports and Harbours - Types of water transportation, water
transportation in India, Ports and harbours: requirements, classification. Harbour works:
breakwaters, jetties, fenders, piers, wharves, dolphins, etc., Navigational aids: types,
requirements, light house, beacon lights, buoys, Port facilities: general layout,
development, planning, facilities, terminals. Docks and repair facilities: design, dry
docks, wet docks, slipways, Locks and lock gates: materials, size, Dredging:
classification, dredgers, uses of dredged materials.
TEXT BOOKS.
1. Railway engineering by S.C. Saxena and S. Arora; DhanpatRai& Sons;
Delhi, India, 2007.
2. Airport planning and Design by S.K. Khanna& M.G Arora; Nemchand&
Bros, Roorkee, India, 2012.
REFERENCES
1. Railway Engineering by Bindra, S.P. Dhanpat Rai and Sons, New Delhi,
India, 1997.
2. Air Transportation Planning and Design by Virendhra Kumar &Satish
Chandra; Gal Gotia Publications Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi, India, 1999.
3. Dock and Harbour Engineering by Seetharaman, S., Umesh Publications,
New Delhi, India, 1999.
4. A Course in Docks and Harbour Engineering by Bindra, S.P.; Dhanpat Rai
and Sons, New Delhi, India, 1992.
160
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE23) ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Identify the sources of water supply and water quality standards
• Define the terms of water supply engineering and Describe the water
treatment process and distribution networks
• Define the terms of wastewater engineering and Design the sewers
• Describe and design waste water treatment process
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge of the water borne diseases and water sources
• Develop skills in designing the water treatment plant.
• Acquire the knowledge of the estimation of sewage and storm water
• Develop skills in design of sewers, waste water treatment units
UNIT – I
Introduction: Importance, Necessity and Objectives of Protected Water Supply
systems. Water Demand and Quantity studies: Estimation &Types of water demands,
Factors affecting the Per Capita Demand, Variations in the Demand, Design Period,
Factors affecting the Design period, Population Forecasting Studies. Quality Analysis
of Water: Characteristics of water, Impurities in water, Water borne diseases, Drinking
water quality standards. Sources of water, Capacity of storage reservoirs, Infiltration
galleries, confined and unconfined aquifers, Intakes-Types, Conveyance of Water,
Types of Pipes, Pipe Materials, Pipe joints, Valves and water meters.
UNIT - II
Layout and general outline of water treatment units, Treatment methods (Theory and
Design) - Sedimentation, Coagulation, Sedimentation with Coagulation, Filtration–
working of slow and rapid gravity filters, Chlorination and other Disinfection methods-
theory of chlorination-Chlorine Demand-other disinfection methods.
UNIT - III
Distribution systems-types of layouts of distribution systems-design of distribution
systems, Hardy cross and equivalent pipe methods, water meters, laying and testing of
pipe lines.Sources of wastewater generation, effects, sewerage systems, Estimation of
sewage and storm water–time of concentration, characteristics of sewage and factors
affecting cycles of decay –BOD,COD equations, Effluent standards.
UNIT-IV
Design of sewers - Hydraulics of flow in sewers, Objectives, Design period , Design of
sanitary and storm sewers , shapes and materials –sewer appurtenances; Laying,
joining &testing of sewers , appurtenances – Pumps – selection of pumps and pipe
Drainage - Plumbing System for Buildings , One pipe and two pipe system.
161
UNIT-V
Layout and general outline of various units in a waste water treatment plant – Selection
of treatment processes, primary treatment - design of screens, grit chambers,
skimming tanks, sedimentation tanks. Principles and design of secondary treatment -
biological treatment, trickling filters–standard and high rate construction and design of
oxidation ponds , sludge digestion tanks,sludge disposal by drying –septic tanks
working principles and design-soak pits.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Environmental Engineering by Garg, S.K., Vol.1 Khanna Publishers, New
Delhi, 2005.
2. Water Supply Engineering by Modi, P.N. Vol. I Standard Book House, New
Delhi, 2005.
REFERENCES:
1. Environmental Engineering –I : Water supply Engineering by Garg, S.K.,
Khanna Publishers.
2. Environmental Engineering –II: Sewage disposal and Air Pollution
Engineering by Garg, S.K. Khanna Publishers.
3. Manual on Sewerage and Sewage Treatment, CPHEEO, Ministry of Urban
Development, Government of India, New Delhi, 1997.
4. Wastewater Engineering – Treatment and Reuse by Metcalf and Eddy, Tata
Mc.Graw-Hill Company, New Delhi, 2003.
5. Water Supply and Sanitary Engineering by Birdie and Birdie, DhanpatRai
Publishing Company, New Delhi, 2014.
162
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - I 3 0 3
(5CE73) GROUND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• To describe the concepts of Groundwater Development and
Management.
• To explain and derive the basic equations used in Groundwater
development and management
• To solve groundwater problems using the mathematical equations
• To investigate, analyze and conduct field studies to conduct basic
ground water studies.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Identify different fundamental equations and concepts as applied in the
Groundwater studies
• Discuss and derive differential equation governing groundwater flow in
three dimensions
• To solve groundwater mathematical equations and analyze pumping
tests in steady and non steady flow cases
• Distinguish and understand the saline water intrusion problem in
groundwater
UNIT-I
Ground Water Occurrence
Ground water hydrologic cycle, origin of ground water, rock properties effecting ground
water, Vertical distribution of ground water, zone of aeration and zone of saturation,
geologic formation as aquifers, types of aquifers, porosity, specific yield and specific
retention. Ground Water Movement-Permeability, Darcy’s law, storage coefficient,
Transmissivity, Differential equation governing ground water flow in three dimensions
derivation, ground water flow equation in polar coordinate system, ground water flow
contours and their applications.
UNIT-II
Analysis of Pumping Test Data-I
Steady flow ground water flow towards a well in confined and unconfined aquifers -
Dupuit’s and Thim’s equations, assumptions, formation constants, yield of an open well
interface and well tests.
UNIT-III
Analysis of Pumping Test Data-II
Unsteady flow towards well - Non Equilibrium equations, Theis solution, Jocob and
Chow’s simplifications, Leaky aquifers.
163
UNIT-IV
Surface and sub-surface Investigation
surface methods of exploration-Electrical resistivity method and Seismic refraction
methods. Subsurface methods geophysical logging and resistivity logging. Concept of
artificial recharge of ground water ,recharge methods, Applications of GIS and RS in
artificial recharge of ground water along with case studies.
UNIT-V
Saline water intrusion in aquifer
Occurrence of saline water intrusion, Ghyben-Herzberg relation, Shape of interface,
control of water intrusion. Ground water basin management-case studies.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Ground water Hydrology by David Keith Todd, John Wiley & Son, New York,
2005.
2. Ground water by H.M.Raghunath, Wiley Eastern Ltd, 2002.
REFERENCES
1. Applied Principles of Hydrology by Manning, CBS Publishers Distributers,
New Delhi, 2007.
2. Applied Hydrogeology by C.W.Fetta, CBS Publishers & Distributors, New
Delhi, 2013.
3. Ground Water Assessment, Development and Management by K R Karanth,
Mc Graw hill Publications., 2003.
4. Groundwater System Planning & Management, R. Willes & W.W.G. Yeh,
Printice Hall, 1998.
164
Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - I 3 0 3
(5CE74) FINITE ELEMENT METHODS
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Understand the general steps of finite element methods.
• Understand the basic finite element formulation techniques.
• Equip the students with the Finite Element Analysis fundamentals.
• Enable the students to perform engineering simulations using Finite Element
Analysis software
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• An ability to solve multi-disciplinary problems
• Ability to derive equations in finite element methods for 1-D and 2-D problems.
• Ability to formulate and solve basic problems in structural mechanics using
different elements.
• Ability to apply knowledge of mathematics and Engineering.
UNIT-I
Introduction: Basic concepts of the FEM – Steps of the FEM – Advantages and
Disadvantages- – Applications - Discretization-A general procedure for Finite element
analysis.
Principles of Elasticity: Equilibrium equations – Strain displacement relationships-
Stress-Strain Relations- Plane stress, Plane strain problems- Axi-symmetric bodies of
revolution with axi-symmetricloading.
UNIT-II
One Dimensional FEM
Linear spring as a Finite element-Local and Global coordinate systems-Finite element
modeling-Stiffness matrix for bar element, Flexure element- Element load vector-
Equivalent nodal loads-Analysis of plane truss - shape functions for one dimensional
elements – One dimensional problems-Comparison of the Finite element solution to the
exact solution.
UNIT–III
Two Dimensional FEM
Different types of elements for plane stress and plane strain analysis-CST element-LST
element- Rectangular elements- Displacement models – generalized coordinates –
shape functions – convergence and compatibility requirements – Geometric invariance
– Natural coordinate system – Area coordinates - Volume coordinates.
UNIT–IV
Isoparametric formulation
Concepts of Isoparametric elements for 2D analysis- Formulation of CST element, 4 –
noded and 8-noded iso-parametric quadrilateral elements – Shape functions- Strain-
displacement matrices-Lagrangian and Serendipity elements- Isoparametric ,Super
165
parametric and Sub parametric elements.
UNIT-V
Solution Techniques
Numerical Integration- Guassian Quadarture- One point, Two Point and Three point
formula- Static condensation, assembly of elements and solution techniques for static
loads.
TEXT BOOKS
1. A First course in the Finite element method by Daryl L. Logon,3rd ed-
Thomson,2002
2. Finite Elements Methods in Engineering by Tirupati.R. Chandrepatla and Ashok
D. Belegundu - Pearson Education Publications, 2007.
REFERENCES
1. Concepts and Applications of Finite Element Analysis by Robert D.Cook, David
S. Malkus and Michael E.Plesha.2nd ed, Jhon Wiley & Sons,2005.
2. Finite Element analysis – Theory & Programming by C.S.Krishna Murthy- 2nd ed,Tata
Mc.Graw Hill,2004
3. Text book of Finite Element analysis by P.Seshu – 2nd ed,Prentice Hall of India,2011.
4. Finite element analysis by S.S. Bhavakatti,3rd ed,-New age international
publishers,2015
5.Finite element analysis by David V Hutton,7th edition, Tata Mcgraw Hill,2005.
166
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-I 3 0 3
(5CE75) TRAFFIC ENGINEERING
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Understand the basic concepts of traffic engineering.
• Analyze capacity and level of service of highways.
• Identify the importance and types of parking and traffic safety in day-to-day
life.
• Design signals at the intersection.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• explain basic characteristics of traffic engineering like speed, flow and
density.
• analyze and calculate the capacity and level of service of any given highway.
• formulate the parking demand and design a parking facility.
• design the signals at the intersection.
UNIT – I
Basic traffic characteristics - Speed, volume and concentration. Relationship
between Flow, Speed and Concentration Volume Studies - Objectives, Methods;
Speed studies - Objectives: Definition of Spot Speed, time mean speed and space
mean speed
UNIT – II
Speed Studies: Methods of conducting speed studies; Presentation of speed
study data; Head ways and Gaps; Critical Gap; Gap acceptance studies.
Highway Capacity and Level of Service: Basic definitions related to capacity;
Level of service concept; Factors affecting capacity and level of service;
Computation of capacity and level of service for two lane highways Multilane
highways and freeways.
UNIT – III
Parking Studies and Analysis:
Types of parking facilities - on street parking and off street Parking facilities;
Parking studies and analysis.
Traffic Safety: Accident studies and analysis; Causes of accidents - The Road,
The vehicle, The road user and the Environment; Engineering, Enforcement and
Education measures for the prevention of accidents, Road User cost study, Road
safety audit
167
UNIT - IV
Traffic Control and Regulation:
Traffic Signals - Design of Isolated Traffic Signal by Webster method, Warrants for
signalization, Signal Co-ordination methods, Simultaneous, Alternate, Simple
progression and Flexible progression Systems.
UNIT – V
Traffic and Environment:
Detrimental effects of Traffic on Environment; Air pollution; Noise Pollution; Measures
to curtail environmental degradation due to traffic.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Traffic Engineering and Transportation Planning by Kadiyali L.R., Khanna
Publication, New Delhi, 2011.
2. Traffic Engineering by Roger P. Roess, Elena S. Prassas and William R.
McShane, , Prentice Hall, 4th edition, 2010.
REFERENCES
1. Mike Slinn, Paul Matthews, Peter Guest, Traffic Engineering Design: Principles
and Practice, Butterworth-heinemann, 2nd Edition, 2005.
2. Traffic & Highway Engineering by Nicholas J Garber, Lester A Hoel, Third
edition, Bill, 2011.
3. Design codes IRC: SP: 41-1994, IRC SP: 31-1992, IRC 43-1994, Indian Roads
Congress, New Delhi. Highway Capacity Manual 2010, Transportation
Research Board
4. Traffic Engineering, by Matson T M, Smith W S ,Hurd F W, Mcgraw Hill Book
Co, NY USA.
168
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech CE- I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-I 3 0 3
(5CE76) SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Define the terms and Understands the necessity of solid waste
management
• Explain the strategies for the collection of solid waste
• Describe the solid waste disposal methods
• Categorize bio-medical waste and e-waste
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Understand and classify the necessity of solid waste management
• Explain the solid waste disposal techniques
• Acquire the knowledge of Bio medical waste disposal techniques
• Choose different strategies for the disposal of solid waste
UNIT – I
Introduction
Solid Waste problem, Meaning and definition of solid waste, concept and classification
of municipal solid waste, Impacts of solid waste on environment, Solid waste
management rules and regulations.
UNIT – II
Collection and Transport of Municipal Solid Waste
Developing a solid waste collection and transport system, characterizing waste,
determining public and private collection/transport options.
UNIT – III
Solid Waste Management Techniques
Solid waste management Hierarchy, waste avoidance /waste prevention, Definition of
source Reduction, waste reduction at source using 5R’s Technique.
UNIT – IV
Waste Disposal Techniques
Introduction, composting, principles of composting, factors affecting composting,
Vermi-composting, waste to energy techniques, Landfill technique, and design and
operating procedure of landfill.
UNIT – V
Solid Waste Management of Biomedical Waste, plastic and E- Waste
Biomedical Waste – Sources and generation, biomedical waste management. Plastic
– Dangers of plastic wastes, Recycling and disposal of plastic wastes. E-Wastes –
Definition, Health hazards, E-Waste management and conclusion.
169
TEXT BOOKS
1. Handbook of Solid Waste Management by George Tchobanoglous and Frank
Kreith, McGRAW-HILL, 2002.
2. Solid waste management by K. Sasi Kumar & S. Gopi Krishna, Prentice-Hall
publishers, 2009.
REFERENCES
1. Management of Municipal Solid Waste by T.V. Ramachandra, The Energy
and Resources Institute, TERI, 2009.
2. Municipal Solid Waste Management in India by Subhrabaran Das and Korobi
Gogoi, VDM Verlag, 2010.
3. Solid waste engineering by William A. Worrell and P. Aarne Vesilind, 2nd
Edition, Cengage Learning, 2000.
4. Solid Waste Management by Jagbir Singh and A. L. Ramanathan, I K
International Publishing House Pvt. Ltd, 2009.
170
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - II 3 0 3
(5CE77) DESIGN AND DRAWING OF HYDRAULIC STRUCTURES
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Describe the role of various structures for the control of flows in open
channels and canals for the benefit of society.
• To demonstrate the hand-on experience in drawing of irrigation and
environmental engineering structures
• To apply the engineering knowledge to the architecture and design of weirs
• To analyze and compare various design options for energy dissipation
structures
Course Outcomes:
After completion of this course, student should be able to:
• Identify appropriate hydraulic structures under different conditions.
• Analyze, design and draw different kinds of hydraulic structures.
• Prepare engineering drawing and design reports
• Select an appropriate design for a given engineering, environmental, social
and economic consideration.
Design and drawing of the following hydraulic structures
1. Slopping glacis weir
2. Tank sluice with tower head
3. Type III Syphon aqueduct
4. Surplus weir
5. Trapezoidal notch fall
6. Canal regulator
TEXT BOOKS
1. Design of minor irrigation and canal structures by C. Satyanarayana murthy,
New Age International Publishers, New Delhi, 1990.
2. Irrigation Engineering and Hydraulic Structures by S.K.Garg, S.K. Khanna
Publishers, 2010.
REFERENCES
1. Hydraulic Structures; P. Novak, AIB Moffat, C. Nalluri, and R. Narayanan:
Taylor &
Francis, New York, 2007.
2. Design Textbooks in Civil Engineering – Irrigation Engineering – Vol VI –
Dams;
L Leliavsky; Chapman & Hall, 1981.
3. Theory and Design of Irrigation Structures; Varshney, Gupta, Gupta; Nem
Chand, 1979.
4. Text book of irrigation Engineering & Hydraulic Structures – R.K. Sharma,
Oxford & IBH Publishing Company, New Delhi, 2002.
171
IS Codes
IS Code 6512: Criteria for Design of Solid Gravity Dams
IS Code 1893: Criteria for Earthquake Resistant Design of Structures
IS Code 4410 : Part 22 : 1994 Glossary of terms relating to river valley projects: Part 22
Barrages & Weirs
IS Code 6966 : Part 1 : 1989 Guidelines for hydraulic design of barrages and weirs:
Part-1 Alluvial Reaches
IS Code 7349 : 1989 Guidelines for operation and maintenance of barrages and weirs
IS Code 7720 : 1991 Criteria for Investigation, Planning and Layout for Barrages and
Weirs
IS Code 11130 : 1984 Criteria for Structural Design of Barrages and Weirs
IS Code 14955 : 2001 Guidelines for Hydraulic Model Studies of Barrages and Weirs
Final Examination pattern: Any two questions of the above six designs may be asked
out of which the candidate has to answer one question. The duration of examination
will be three hours.
172
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-II 3 0 3
(5CE78) EARTHQUAKE RESISTANT DESIGN OF BUILDINGS
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Understand Engineering Seismology
• Explain and discuss single degree of freedom systems subjected to free
and forced vibrations
• Acquire the knowledge of the conceptual design and principles of
earthquake resistant designs as per IS codes
• understand importance of ductile detailing of RC structures
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Explain and derive fundamental equations in structural dynamics
• Discuss and explain causes and Theories on earthquake,seismic
waves, measurement of earthquakes
• Evaluate base shear using IS methods
• Design and Detail the reinforcement for earthquake forces
UNIT-I
Introduction to structural Dynamics
Elements of vibrating system - Degrees of freedom - Continuous system - Lumped
mass idealization - Oscillatory motion -Free vibrations of Single degree of freedom
system - undamped, damped and critical damping - logarithmic decrement-Forced
vibrations of SDOF - Harmonic loading
UNIT-II
Engineering seismology
Earthquake phenomenon - causes of earthquakes -Theories on earthquake causes -
Seismic waves - Magnitude and Intensity of earthquake - Energy released -
Earthquake measuring Instruments - Seismograph – Accelerograph - Seismic zones of
India
UNIT-III
Conceptual design
Introduction to functional planning - Continuous load path - Overall form-simplicity and
symmetry - elongated shapes -stiffness and strength - Horizontal and vertical members
- Twisting of buildings - flexible buildings - framing systems -unconfined concrete and
confined concrete - reinforcing steel - lateral load resisting systems - irregularities in
buildings
UNIT-IV
Basic assumptions - principles in earthquake resistant designs - permissible stresses -
Seismic methods of analysis based on IS: 1893 - Equivalent lateral force method -
Dynamic analysis - Response spectrum method - Time history method
173
UNIT-V
Ductility considerations in earthquake resistant design of RC buildings - Impact of
ductility - requirements for ductility -Assessment of ductility - Factors affecting ductility -
Ductile detailing considerations as per IS:13920 - Behaviour of beams, columns and
joints in RC buildings during earthquake
TEXT BOOKS
1. Earthquake Resistant Design of Structures-S.K.Duggal, Oxford University
Press, 2011
2. Earthquake Resistant Design of Structures-Pankaj Agarwal and Manish
Shrikhande, Prentice Hall of India Pvt.Ltd.2006
3. Seismic Design of Reinforced Concrete and Masonry Building -T Paulay and
M.J.N.
Priestly, John Wiley & Sons, 2009
REFERENCES
1. Structural Dynamics – Mario Paz, CBS Publisher, 2004
2. Earthquake Resistant Design of Masonry Building ,Miha Tomazevic, Imperial
College Press, 2006
3. Earthquake Tips-Learning Earthquake Design and Construction- C.V.R.Murthy
REFERENCE CODES
1. IS: 1893(Part-1)-2002, “Criteria for Earthquake Resistant Design of structures”,
B.I.S.,New Delhi
2. IS: 13920-1993, “Ductile detailing of Concrete structures subjected to seismic
force”- guidelines, B.I.S. New Delhi
174
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-II 3 0 3
(5CE79) AIR POLLUTION AND CONTROL TECHNOLOGY
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Understands and Define Air pollution Concepts
• Identify the sources air pollution
• Describe and Sketch Air pollution Control devices
• Describe and Sketch Air quality monitoring devices
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Understands Air pollution Concepts
• Acquire the knowledge of Effects of air pollution
• Explain Air pollution Control devices
• Explain Air quality monitoring devices
UNIT – I
Air Pollution and its definition – Factors influencing air pollution – Classification of
pollutants and particulates. Gases-Sources of pollution ,Air qualities standards.
UNIT – II
Meteorology – Wind roses – lapses rates – mixing depth atmospheric dispersion –
plume behavior accumulation, estimation of pollutants – Effective stack height.
UNIT – III
Air Pollution effects on human beings, animals, plants and materials global conditions–
Air Pollution Episodes in India and abroad.
UNIT – IV
Control of air pollution – Removal of pollutants – particulate and gaseous – Air pollution
control equipments (units) settling chamber, cyclones, wet scrubbers/collectors,
centrifugal scrubbers, spray towers, packed beds, electrostatic precipitators, absorption
– adsorption – Diffusion.
UNIT – V
Air pollution monitoring and management.-Environmental guide lines for siting
industries, Environmental Impact assessment, Environmental management plan, stack
emission standards, stack emission monitoring, ambient air quality monitoring,
ambient air quality survey.
175
TEXT BOOKS
1. Air Pollution Control Engineering by Nevers, , McGraw-Hill, Inc., 2000.
2. Elements of Air Pollution Control by Prof. T. Shivaji Rao, Lavanya lata Pub. 1988.
REFERENCES
1. Air Pollution Control by K.V.S.G. Murali Krishna, Kaushal & Co 1995.
2. Air Pollution and its Control by M.N.Rao. & H.V.N.Rao, TaTa Mc.Graw Hill, 15th
reprint, 2000.
3. Fundamentals of Air Pollution by Dr. B.S.N. Raju, Oxford & I.B.H.
4. Air Pollution and Health by T. Holgate, Hillel S. Koren, Jonathan M. Samet, Robert L.
Maynard publisher Academic Press.
176
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-II 3 0 3
(5CE80) AIRPORT PLANNING AND DESIGN
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• understand the classification of airports and related aircraft characteristics
• comprehend the site selection for airport
• explicate the grading and drainage of airport
• explain the air traffic control aids
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• The student Should illustrate on the design of runway length and estimate
the corrections for runway length
• The student should explain the planning and designing the terminal area in
airport locations.
• The student should recall importance of marking runway and taxiway areas.
• The student should explain the importance of structural design of airport
pavements & visual aids
UNIT-I
Introduction & aircraft characteristics
General, Requirements of Aircraft Types, Field Length Regulations,
Restrictions On Payload- Range Performance, Weight Components, Airplane
Components Parts, Military And Civil Aircrafts, Civil Military Co-Ordination,
Classification Of Flying Activity, Relation Of Aircraft To Landing Facility,
Aircraft Characteristics, Future Trends In Aircraft Design
UNIT-II
Airport obstructions & runway design
Zoning Laws, Classification of Obstructions, Turning Zone, Runway
Orientation, Basic Runway Length, Correction for Elevation, Temperature and
Gradient, Airport Classification Runway Geometric Design
UNIT-III
Taxiway design & terminal area
Factors Controlling Taxiway Layout, Geometric Design Standards, Exit
Taxiways, Fillets, Separation Clearance, Holding Apron, Turnaround or
Bypass Taxiway
Building and Building Area, Vehicular Circulation and Parking Area, Apron,
Hangar, Blast Considerations, Typical Airport Layouts
UNIT-IV
Airport planning
General, Airport Master Plan, Regional Planning, Data Required Before Site
Selection, Airport Site Selection, Surveys For Site Selection, Drawings To
Be Prepared, Estimation Of Future Air Traffic Needs
177
UNIT-V
Design of Airport Pavements & Visual Aids
Introduction, Various Design Factors, Design Methods for flexible
Pavements, Design Method for air field rigid pavements, Influence Charts -
concrete pavement due to load in the interior of slab, LCN system of
Pavement design, Joints In Cement Concrete Pavements, Airport Marking,
Airport Lighting.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Airport planning & Design by S. K. Khanna SS Arora MG Arora , Jain
Publications, 2000.
2. Planning & Design of Airports – Robert M. Horonjeff, Francis X Mc Graw Hill
Professional, 1995.
REFERENCES
1. Airport Engineering by Norman j Ashford Mc. Graw hill Professional, 2000.
2. Airport planning and management by Seth Young and Alexander Wells, Mc
Graw Hill, 2000.
3. Airport Operations by Norman J. Ashford, H. P. Martin Stanton , Mc Graw Hill,
2000.
4. Airport Engineering: Planning, Design and Development of 21st Century
Airports by Norman J. Ashford, Saleh Mumayiz, Paul H. Wright, Mc. Graw Hill
Professional, 2000
178
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5CE62) CAD/GIS LABORATORY
CAD LAB:
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Understand the GUI of the analysis package
• Create geometries using preprocessor
• Analyse and Interpret the results using post processor
• Design the structural elements
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Model the geometry of real world structure Represent the physical model of
structural element/structure
• Perform analysis
• Interpret from the Post processing results
• Design the Concrete & Steel structural elements as per IS Codes
CAD :
1. Analysis of simple and overhanging beams
2. Analysis of fixed and continuous beams
3. 2-D RC frame analysis and Design
4. Steel Truss analysis and Design using angle sections
5. 3-D RC frame analysis and Design
6. Steel Truss analysis and Design using tubular sections
Software: Legal Structural Analysis Software
GIS LAB:
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Explain the process of image interpretation.
• Perform remotely sensed image classification
• Perform different tasks with various GIS modules
• Acquire knowledge on creating maps with GIS
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Identify different objects and components present in a image using visual
image interpretation technique.
• Classify an image into different classes using supervised and unsupervised
classification techniques.
• Create a new digitized map of an area from given toposheet.
• Develop solutions for few civil engineering problems using RS and GIS.
179
REMOTE SENSING:
1. Arial photograph interpretation
2. Visual interpretation of multispectral and panchromatic image
3. Image classification, supervised and unsupervised classifications
4. Change detection from multi-date imagery
GIS:
1. Analog to Digital Conversion – Scanning methods
2. Introduction to software
3. Digital database creation – Point features, Line features, Polygon features
4. Data Editing-Removal of errors – Overshoot and Undershoot, Snapping
5. Data Collection and Integration, Non-spatial data attachment working with tables
6. Dissolving and Merging
7. Clipping, Intersection and Union
8. Buffering techniques
9. Spatial and Attribute query and Analysis
10. DEM
Software: Remote Sensing and GIS Software
180
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5CE63) ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Understand about the importance of Environmental Engineering Lab
• Perform the experiments to determine water, waste water and Industrial
water quality
• Understand the water sampling, waste water sampling & water quality
standards
• Estimate quality of water, waste water, Industrial water and air
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Understand about the importance of environmental engineering laboratory
• Perform the experiments in the lab
• Examine and Estimate water, waste water, air and soil Quality
• Compare the water, air quality standards with prescribed standards set by
the local governments
• Develop a report on the water quality and air quality
List of the Experiments:
1. Ph& Conductivity. Determination of pH and conductivity of water and waste water
and soil.
2. Turbidity, Determination of turbidity of water and wastewater by Nephelometry.
3. Hardness, Determination of hardness of water and waste water by titrimetric method
4. a) Acidity estimation as CACO3 by titrimetric method
b) Alkalinity estimation as CACO3 by titrimetric method
5. Determination of chlorides, nitrates, fluorides and ammonia in water and waste
water.
6. Determination of PM in air by using respirable dust sampler
10
7. Determination of metal components like Ca, Na, Cu, Ag, Pb, Cr, Co etc by using
Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer (AAS).
8. Optimum dosage of coagulant by jar test. Determination of optimum dosage of
coagulant using
Jar test (flocculation test)
9. Estimation of Total Solids: Settleable Solids: Suspended solids, dissolved solids.
10. D.O. Determination of D.O polarographic probe method
11. B. O. D.
12. C. O. D.
13. Chlorides. Determination of chloride by Mohr’s argentometric method
14. Determination concentration of CO, CO by using indoor air quality monitor.
2
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Environmental Engineering by Howard S. Peavy, Donald R. Rowe, George
Tchobanoglous, McGraw-Hill, 1985.
181
2. Environmental Engineering Laboratory Manual by Dr. B. Kotaiah and Dr. N. Kumara
Swamy, Charotar Publishing House Pvt. Ltd.
182
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE24) ESTIMATING AND COSTING
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Understands the terms of estimation
• Calculate detailed estimate of buildings
• Perform rate analysis of quantities
• List the methods of valuation of the property
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Evaluate the detailed estimate of RC building
• Evaluate the detailed estimate of roads, irrigation works
• Assess the value of a property.
• Recommend the type of contract for a specific Work
UNIT-I
Estimate - explanation of terms - contingencies - work charged establishments -
provisional sum - lumpsum item - centage charge - types of estimate - revised estimate
- supplementary estimate - maintenance estimate - approximate estimate - plinth area
method - cubic rate method - unit rate method - bay method - approximate quantity
from bill method - comparison method - cost from materials and labour. - preparation of
detailed estimate for R.C building - centre line method and long wall - short wall
method - methods of measurements of different items of work.
UNIT-II
Preparation of detailed estimate for sanitary and water supply works - roads - irrigation
works - doors and windows - detailed specifications for common building materials and
items of work as per I.S specifications - calculation of quantities of materials for items
of work.
UNIT-III
Preparation of conveyance statement - analysis of rate for items of works required for
civil engineering works - preparation of abstract of estimate of civil engineering works.
Preparation of bar bending schedule for some typical RCC elements.
UNIT-IV
Competitive bidding- Local competitive bidding, global bidding, item rate contract
percentage rate contract and Lumpsum contract. Preparing tender papers- Invitation of
tenders, tender notice, tender documents, (various terms and conditions to contracts)
submission. Scrutiny and acceptance. Award of jobs. Rights and responsibilities of
parties to contracts. Negotiated contracts. Cost plus percentage. Cost plus fixed fees.
Cost plus sliding scale of fees. Target cost as based on sharing risk and profits.
Turnkey contracts. More than two party contracts.
183
UNIT-V
Valuation - explanation of items - types of values - sinking fund - years purchase -
depreciation - straight line method - constant percentage method - S.F method -
obsolescence - valuation tables - valuation of real property - rental method - profit
based method - depreciation method - valuation of land - belting method - development
method - hypothecated building scheme method - rent calculation - lease and lease
hold property, Arbitration.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Estimating and Costing by B.N.Dutta, UBS Publishers, 26th edition, 2010.
2. Estimating, Costing, Specification & Valuation by M Chakraborti, 24th edition, 2010.
REFERENCES
1. Estimating and Costing by G.S.Birdie, Dhanpat rai Publications,5th
edition,2000.
2. Standard Schedule of rates and standard data book by public works
department.
3. IS: 1200 (Parts I to XXV – 1974/method of measurement of building and civil
engineering works – B.I.S)
4. National Building Code.
184
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - III 3 0 3
(5CE81) CONSTRUCTION TECHNOLOGY AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Learn the fundamentals of construction laws.
• Know the fundamentals of construction safety.
• Understand various equipments used in construction.
• Practice Project Planning.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Differentiate between different construction equipment.
• Prepare Plan and control resources of projects.
• Prepare Construction Schedule by using different methods.
• Understand and apply ISO 9000 Standards to projects
UNIT-I
Fundamentals of construction Technology, Construction activities, process,
construction schedule construction records, documents, quality, safety, codes and
regulations.
UNIT-II
Construction method , earthwork , piling , concrete and concreting, formwork ,
fabrication and erection, Mechanized construction, construction equipment, equipment
economics, excavators, Rollers, Dozers, Scrapers, Handling equipment, concrete
equipment, cranes, draglines and clamshells.
UNIT-III
Quality control, Assurance and safety, ISO 9000, quality systems, principles on safety,
personnel, fire and electrical safety, environment protection, concept of green building.
UNIT-IV
Contract management, project estimation, types of estimation, contract document,
classification, bidding, procurement process, Construction planning, project planning
techniques, planning of manpower, material, equipment and finance.
UNIT-V
Project scheduling, PERT, CPM, Resource leveling, Construction claims, Dispute and
project closure, source of claim, claim management, Dispute Resolution, Arbitration,
Construction Closure, contract Closure, Documentation.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Construction Technology by Subir K.Sarkar, Subhajit Saraswati, Oxford
University Press,2008
185
2. Construction Project Management – Theory and Practice, Neeraj jha,
Pearson Education,2011
REFERENCES
1. Project Planning and Control with PERT and CPM – B.C. Punmia,
K.K.Khandelwala – Laxmi Publication,2011
2. Construction Project Management by K.K.Chitkara, Tata Mcgraw Hill
Education Private Limited, 2010
3. Construction Planning & Management by U.K.Srivastava, Galgotia
Publications, 2013
4. Construction Planning Equipment and Methods by Peurifacy, Schexnayder,
Sharpira TMH,2010
186
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-III 3 0 3
(5CE82) ADVANCED STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Understand the various approximate methods of structural analysis.
• Identify principal axes in beams subjected to unsymmetrical bending.
• Differentiate between flexibility and stiffness methods of analysis of beams,
frames and plane trusses
• Explain plastic analysis of beams and frames
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Analyze the multistory building frames by various approximate methods.
• Determine the Stresses in beams, deflections of beams subjected to
unsymmetrical bending
• Solve the continuous beams, portal frames by matrix methods of analysis.
• Understand the plastic analysis of structures and can Draw the ILD’s for
indeterminate structures.
UNIT - I
Approximate Methods of Structural Analysis :
Application to building frames - (i) Portal method (ii) Cantilever method (iii) Substitute
frame analysis-two cycle.
UNIT – II
Unsymmetrical Bending :
Introduction – Centroidal axes of section – Graphical method for locating principal axes
–Moments of inertia referred to any set of rectangular axes – Stresses in beams
subjected to unsymmetrical bending – Principal axes – Resolution of bending moment
into two rectangular axes through the centroid – Location of neutral axis, deflection of
beams under unsymmetrical bending, shear centre for simple section.
UNIT – III
Matrix Methods :
Stiffness method : Application to Plane frames and Plane Trusses.
Flexibility Method : Application to Plane frames and Plane Trusses.
UNIT – IV
Plastic Analysis :
Introduction – Idealized stress–strain diagram – shape factors for various sections –
Moment curvature relationship – ultimate moment – Plastic hinge – lower and upper
bound theorems – ultimate strength of fixed and continuous beams.
187
UNIT – V
Influence lines for Indeterminate structures :
Muller -Breslau principles for statically Indeterminate beams, Influence line diagrams
for Reaction, Shearing force and Bending moment in case of Indeterminate beams and
Influence line diagrams for member forces in statically Indeterminate trusses
TEXT BOOKS
1. Theory of Structures by B.C. Punmia, Ashok Kumar Jain, Arun Kumar Jain,
Laxmi Publications, 12th Edition .
2. Structural Analysis : A Matrix Approach by G.S.Pandit, S.P.Gupta, Tata
McGraw-Hill Publishers, 2nd Edition.
REFERENCES
1. Structural Analysis by Devdas Menon, Narosa Publishers, 2008.
2.Theory of Structures – Vol. II by S.P.Gupta, G.S. Pandit, R.Gupta, Tata
McGraw-Hill Publishers, Ist Edition.
3. Structural Analysis by A.Ghali, A.M. Neville and T.G. Brown, Spon Press,
6th Edition, 2009.
4. Structural Analysis by D.S.Prakash Rao, Universities Press, 1996.
188
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-III 3 0 3
(5CE83) GROUND IMPROVEMENT TECHNIQUES
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Learn and understand various ground improvement technique.
• List various method of compaction for ground improvement in it strength.
• Explain various physical and chemical modification for ground
improvement
• Choose the foundation and or treatment method based on the site
condition.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Select the ground improvement technique which is suitable and
economical for soil strengthening.
• List different techniques based on the various types of soils in-situ.
• Design reinforced earth structures.
• Apply the knowledge of geo-synthetic material for usage.
UNIT – I
In-situ densification methods in granular soils, Vibration at the ground surface, Impact
at the Ground surface, Vibration at depth, Impact at depth. In-situ densification
methods in cohesive soils, Preloading, Dewatering, Drain wells, Sand drains, Sandwich
geodrains, Stone columns, Lime columns, Thermal methods.
UNIT – II
Reinforced earth principles, Components of reinforced earth walls, Factors governing
design of reinforced earth walls, Design principles of reinforced earth walls.
UNIT – III
Geotextiles: Introduction, Type of geotextiles, Function and their application, tests for
geotextile materials, Geogrids, Functions of geogrids. Expansive soils, Problems in
Expansive soils, Mechanism of swelling, swell pressure, swell potential, Heave, Tests
for identification, I. S.Test Methods of determination of swell pressure, Foundation
techniques in Expansive soils.
UNIT – IV
Mechanical stabilization: Soil aggregate mixtures, Properties and proportioning
techniques, soft aggregate stabilization, compaction, Field compaction control.
Cement stabilization: Mechanism-Factors affecting and properties, Uses of additives,
Design of soil-cement mixtures, Construction techniques
UNIT – V
Lime and Bituminous stabilization: Types of admixtures, Mechanisim, Factors affecting,
Design of mixtures, Construction methods.
189
TEXT BOOKS
1. Ground Improvement Techniques- Dr. G.V.R. Purshotham Raj
2. Designing with Geosynthetics- Robert M. Koerner
REFERENCES
1. Foundation Analysis and Design by Joseph E. Bowles; McGraw – Hill
International Book Company
2. Basic and Applied Soil Mechanics by Gopal Ranjan, A.S.R. Rao, New age
Publications.
3. Foundation Engineering by Braja M. Das.
4. Soil Mechanics & Foundation Engineering Vol. II by V.N.S. Murthy, Saikripa,
Technical consultants, Bangalore.
190
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-III 3 0 3
(5CE84) ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Define and Classify Environmental Impacts and the terminology
• Understands the environmental Impact assessment procedure
• Explain the EIA methodology
• List and describe environmental audits
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge of Environmental impacts
• Understand and analyze environmental clearances and guidelines
• prepare an audit report
• memorize and reproduce environment laws and regulations
UNIT – I
Introduction to EIA, Definition of EIA and EIS. Preparation of EIS, Elements of EIA,
Classification of Environmental parameters, Initial Environmental Examination,
Preparation of Environmental Base map, EIA procedure
UNIT – II
EIA methodology: Introduction, criteria for selection of EIA Methodology,
EIA methods - Adhoc method, Check List Method, Matrix method, Network method,
Environmental media quality Index method, Overlays method, Cost benefit analysis
method
UNIT – III
Environmental impacts - Identification & measurement, Aggregation, Secondary and
Cumulative Impacts, Environmental Guidelines and procedures, Environmental
clearance, Environmental Appraisal Procedure, Single window Clearance, Time frame,
Post project monitoring, Procedure for obtaining Environmental clearance for
industries, Forest clearance, Consent to operate Industrial unit, Consent to handle
hazardous chemicals in the Industrial unit
UNIT – IV
Assessment of Impact of developmental Activities on soil, ground water, surface water
vegetation, air, wild life, Noise & Socio Economic Environment, Environmental impacts
of Deforestation-Causes and effects
UNIT – V
Environmental Audit, Types of environmental Audit, Audit protocol, Stages of
Environmental Audit onsite activities, evaluation of audit data and preparation of Audit
Report, Post Audit Activities, Case studies On EIA, Environmental laws and
regulations-Air act, Water act, environmental protection act.
191
TEXT BOOKS
1. Environment Impact Analysis by Jain, R.K., Urban, L.V. and Stacey, G.S., Von
Nostrand Reinhold Company
2. Environmental Impact Assessment by Canter, L.W., McGraw Hills, New York, 1977.
REFERENCES
1. Environmental Impact Assessment by L. W. Canter, 2nd Ed., McGraw-Hill, 1997.
2. Handbook of Environmental Management and Technology by G. Burke, B. R. Singh
and L. Theodore, 2nd Ed., John Wiley & Sons, 2000.
3. Environment Impact Statements: A Comprehensive Guide to Project and Strategic
Planning by C. H. Eccleston, John Wiley & Sons, 2000.
4. Environmental Impact Assessment and Methodologies by Y.Anjaneyulu and Valli
Manickam BS Publications, 2nd Edition, 2011.
192
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - IV 3 0 3
(5CE85) WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• To define and identify various processes and fluxes of mass and energy
within a watershed and how land use changes potentially affect these
processes.
• To explain the science-based management principles as applied to
watershed systems.
• To develop/improve and apply critical problem solving, quantitative and data
analysis skills commonly used by natural resource managers.
• Evaluate the potential environmental effects of various land and water uses
and how these resources can benefit from integrated watershed
management.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of this course, student should be able to
• Enumerate the physical, biological and environmental aspects and their
interrelations within a watershed; choose and apply available system tools for
system intervention.
• Explain the participatory decision making processes; comprehend the
interdependencies between natural resources and management at different
locations in land and water management.
• Solve watershed related problems by formulating a vision and design a
sustainable watershed management plan that shows an integrated approach
towards multiple uses of land- and water resources and social equity and
economic viability.
• Correlate different aspects of Watershed management so as to work in
multidisciplinary and multicultural groups (with respect for different views,
expertise and culture); reflect on own contribution to group work and on
group processes.
UNIT-I
Introduction
Concept of watershed development, objectives of watershed development, need for
watershed development in India, Integrated and multidisciplinary approach for
watershed management.
UNIT-II
Characteristics of watershed
Size, shape, physiography, slope, climate, drainage, land use, vegetation, geology and
soils, hydrology and hydrogeology, socio-economic characteristics, basic data on
watersheds.
193
UNIT-III
Principles and measures to control erosion
Types of erosion, factors affecting erosion, effects of erosion on land fertility and land
capability, estimation of soil loss due to erosion, Universal soil loss equation. Contour
techniques, ploughing, furrowing, trenching, bunding, terracing, gully control, rockfill
dams, brushwood dam, Gabion.
UNIT-IV
Water harvesting
Rainwater Harvesting, catchment harvesting, harvesting structures, soil moisture
conservation, check dams, artificial recharge, farm ponds, and percolation tanks.
UNIT-V
Land and ecosystem management
Land use and Land capability classification, management of forest, agricultural,
grassland and wild land, Reclamation of saline and alkaline soils, Role of Ecosystem,
crop husbandry, soil enrichment, inter, mixed and strip cropping, cropping pattern,
sustainable agriculture, bio-mass management, dry land agriculture, Silvi pasture,
horticulture, social forestry and afforestation.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Watershed Management by JVS Murthy, - New Age International Publishers, 2009.
2. Water Resource Engineering by R. A. Wurbs and W.P. James, - Prentice Hall
Publishers, 2001.
REFERENCES
1.Land and Water Management by VVN Murthy, - Kalyani Publications, 2008
2. Irrigation and Water Management by D.K.Majumdar, Printice Hall of India, 2010.
3. Watershed Management Issues and Approaches - Timothy O. Randhir, Published
by IWA Publishing, Alliance House, 12 Caxton Street, London SW1H 0QS, UK,
2007.
4. Integrated Watershed Management: Principles and Practice, Isobel W. Heathcote,
Wiley publications, 2009.
194
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective- IV 3 0 3
(5CE86) PRESTRESSED CONCRETE
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Develop an understanding of the necessity of prestressed concrete
structures.
• Develop an understanding of various techniques of prestressing.
• Develop an understanding of various losses of prestress.
• Develop an understanding of the analysis of prestressed concrete
members.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge of evolution of process of prestressing.
• Acquire the knowledge of various prestressing techniques.
• Develop skills in analysis of prestressed concrete beams, and slabs.
• Develop skills to satisfy the serviceability and strength provisions of the
Indian Standards (IS: 1343-2012).
UNIT – I
Introduction
Historic development – General principles of prestressing pretensioning and post
tensioning – Advantages and limitations of prestressed concrete – Materials – High
strength concrete and high tensile steel, their characteristics.
I.S.Code provisions, Methods and Systems of Prestressing; Pre-tensioning and post
tensioning methods – Analysis of post tensioning - Different systems of prestressing
like Hoyer System, Magnel System Freyssinet system and Gifford – Udall System.
UNIT – II
Losses of prestress
Loss of prestress in pre-tensioned and post-tensioned members due to various causes
like elastic shortening of concrete, shrinkage of concrete, creep of concrete, Relaxation
of steel, slip in anchorage bending of member and frictional losses.
UNIT – III
Analysis of sections for flexure
Elastic analysis of concrete beams prestressed with straight, concentric, eccentric, bent
and parabolic tendons.
UNIT – IV
Deflections of prestressed concrete beams
Importance of control of deflections – factors influencing deflections – short term
deflections of uncracked members prediction of long term deflections.
UNIT – V
195
Composite section
Introduction – Analysis of stress – Differential shrinkage – General designs
considerations.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Prestressed Concrete by Krishna Raju, Tata Mc.Graw Hill Publications,4th
Edition,2006
2. Prestressed Concrete by N.Rajagopalan, Narosa publications, 2nd
Edition,2014
REFERENCES
1. Prestressed Concrete Structures by P.Dayaratnam,Oxford &IBH Publishers,
Fourth Edition
2. Design of Prestressed Concrete Structures by T.Y. Lin & N.H.Burns, John
Wiley & Sons, 3rd Edition,2005
3. Prestressed Concrete Structures by M.K.Hurst, Tata Mc.Graw Hill
Publications, 2nd Edition,2009
4. Prestressed Concrete by Ramamrutham, Dhanpat Rai & Sons Publications,
2nd Edition, 2005
5. Prestressed Concrete by K. U. Muthu, Agmil Ibrahim, Maganti Janardhana,
M. Vijayanand, PHI Publishers, 2016
Codes: BIS code on prestressed concrete, IS 1343-2012.
196
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-IV 3 0 3
(5CE87) PAVEMENT ANALYSIS AND DESIGN
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Understand the concepts used to analyze flexible - rigid pavements.
• Appreciate design of flexible & rigid pavement using IRC approach.
• Apply the various types of construction procedures for pavement layers
• Learn how to pavement failures and its evaluation.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• The student should understand the design factors for flexible and rigid
pavements
• The student should explain the assumptions in pavement layers and carryout
design of flexible and rigid pavement.
• The student should discriminate methods of highway constructions used in
pavement layers.
• The student should carryout evaluation pavement design
UNIT – I
Introduction to Pavements
Variables Considered in Pavement Design, Types of Pavements, Functions of
Individual Layers, Classification of Axle Types of Rigid Chassis and Articulated
Commercial Vehicles, Legal Axle and Gross Weights on Single and Multiple Units, Tire
Pressure, Contact Pressure, EAL and ESWL Concepts, Traffic Analysis: ADT, AADT,
Truck Factor, Growth Factor, Lane Distributions & Vehicle Damage Factors, Effect of
Transient & Moving Loads.
UNIT –II
Stresses In flexible and Rigid Pavements: Stress Inducing Factors in Flexible and
Rigid pavements; Stress In Flexible Pavements: Visco-Elastic Theory and
Assumptions, Layered Systems Concepts, Stress Solutions for One, Two and Three
Layered Systems, Fundamental Design Concepts; Stresses In Rigid Pavements:
Westergaard’s Theory and Assumptions, Stresses due to Curling, Stresses and
Deflections due to Loading, Frictional Stresses, Stresses in
Dowel Bars & Tie Bars.
UNIT –III
Material Characteristics: CBR and Modulus of Sub-grade Reaction of Soil, Mineral
aggregates – Blending of aggregates, binders, polymer and rubber modified bitumen,
Resilient, Diametral
Resilient and Complex (Dynamic) Moduli of Bituminous Mixes, Permanent Deformation
Parameters and other Properties, Effects and Methods of Stabilization and Use of Geo
Synthetics. Non destructing testing
197
UNIT – IV
Design Of Flexible and Rigid Pavements: Development of design methods, Flexible
Pavement
Design Concepts, Asphalt Institute’s Methods with HMA and other Base Combinations,
AASHTO, IRC Methods for highways. Design of Rigid Pavements: Calibrated
Mechanistic Design Process, PCA, AASHTO & IRC Specifications, and Rigid
Pavement Design for Low Volume Rural Roads and highways.
UNIT – V
Pavement Evaluation
Functional Evaluation - Need for Highway Maintenance- Pavement Failures- Failures in
Flexible Pavements-Types and Causes-Rigid Pavement Failures- Types and causes-
Structural Evaluation- Benkleman Beam method- Strengthening of Existing
Pavements- Overlays, IRC method of Overlay design, Importance of profile correction
course.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Principles of Pavement Design” by Yoder and Witczak, John Wiley and sons,
New York, USA, 1975.
2. Design of functional Pavements by YC Yang, Mc Graw Hill Book Company,
New York, USA, 1972.
REFERENCES
1. Asphalt Institute. Thickness Design – Asphalt Pavements for Highways and
Streets Manual Series No. 1 (MS-1), Asphalt Institute, Kentucky, USA, 1999.
2. Design guidelines of Pavements IRC 37-2012, IRC 81-1997, IRC 58 – 2011,
Indian road congress publications, New Delhi.
3. Croney, D. and P. Croney The design and performance of road pavements,
McGraw-Hill
Book Company, London, UK, 1991.
4. Huang, Y.H. Pavement Analysis and Design, Second Edition, Dorling
Kindersley (India) Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi, India, 2008.
198
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech CE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective-IV 3 0 3
(5CE88) GEO-SYNTHETICS AND SOIL REINFORCEMENT
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• To create awareness of the latest trends, modern standards and state of the
art techniques for solving geotechnical engineering problems.
• To develop an ability to design a Geo-synthetic system to meet desired
needs such as economic, environmental and sustainability related.
• To identify latest trends in the curriculum consisting mostly of practical
courses in numerous special aspects of civil engineering
• To apply the basic knowledge and to solve critical civil engineering problems
in the field like landslides, pavements, dams etc.,
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Describe different concepts and terms used in Civil Engineering.
• Identify the critical awareness of current issues in Geotechnical Engineering
• Interpret various techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools for
successful carrier in geotechnical engineering practices.
• Solve various Geotechnical Engineering problems using geo-synthetics.
UNIT – I
An Overview of Geo-synthetics
Classification of Geo-synthetics, Functions and applications, Properties of geotextiles,
geogrids and geomembranes.
UNIT – II
Soil Reinforcement
Mechanism, Reinforced slopes, Embankments on soft ground, Reinforced
Embankments and Reinforced soil walls- Internal and External Stability, Slope
stabilization.
UNIT – III
Geo-environmental Applications
Geomembranes for landfills and ponds, Geosynthetic clay liners, designing with GCLs,
Filtration and Erosion control, Slope protection
UNIT – IV
Geosynthetics for Highways
Roadway Reinforcement, Separation, Filtration, Drainage, Reinforcement, Moisture
Barrier, Membrane encapsulation.
UNIT – V
Ground Improvement
Dewatering systems, Prefabricated Vertical drains (PVD), Sand Drains and French
Drains.
199
TEXT BOOKS
1. Koerner, R. M. - Designing with Geo-synthetics
2. Rao, G. V. & Raju G. V. S. S. -Engineering with Geo-synthetics
REFERENCES
1. Mosley -Ground Improvement
2. Jones, C. J. F. P. -Earth Reinforcement and soil structures
3. Hausmann, M. R. -Engineering Principles of Ground Modifications
4. Xianthakos, Abremson and Bruce - Ground control and Improvement
200
