SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/R15/R15CSE.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
Computer Science and Engineering
B.TECH. FOUR YEAR DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2015-2016)
VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous Institute, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
NBA Accreditation for CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT B.Tech. Programmes
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi, Affiliated to JNTUH
Recognized as “College with Potential for Excellence” by UGC
Vignana Jyothi Nagar, Pragathi Nagar, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500 090, TS, India.
Telephone No: 040-2304 2758/59/60, Fax: 040-23042761
E-mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
1
Vision and Mission of the Institute
VISION
To be a World Class University providing value-based education, conducting
interdisciplinary research in cutting edge technologies leading to sustainable socio-
economic development of the nation.
MISSION
➢ To produce technically competent and socially responsible engineers, managers and
entrepreneurs, who will be future ready.
➢ To involve students and faculty in innovative research projects linked with industry,
academic and research institutions in India and abroad.
➢ To use modern pedagogy for improving the teaching-learning process.
Vision and Mission of the Department
VISION
To achieve academic and research excellence in essential technologies of
Computer Science and Engineering by promoting a creative environment for learning and
innovation.
MISSION
➢ To provide dynamic, innovative and flexible curriculum which equip the students with
the necessary problem driven skills to strengthen their career prospects and potential
to pursue higher studies.
➢ To foster inquisitive-driven research among students and staff so as to reinforce the
domain knowledge and address contemporary societal issues.
➢ To inculcate ethical values, leadership qualities and professional behavior skills for
improving the living standards of people.
2
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS FOR B.TECH. PROGRAMME
(Applicable for Students admitted from the academic year 2015-2016)
1. Programmes of study
• The following four year B.Tech. degree programmes of study are offered at VNR
VJIET from the academic year 2017-2018.
Branch
Branch
Code
01 Civil Engineering
02 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
03 Mechanical Engineering
04 Electronics and Communication Engineering
05 Computer Science and Engineering
10 Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
12 Information Technology
24 Automobile Engineering
• ‘ENGLISH’ language is used as the medium of instruction in all the above
programmes.
1.1 Eligibility Criteria for Admission
The eligibility criteria for admission into engineering programmes shall be as
mentioned below:
• The candidate shall be an Indian National / NRI
• The candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st December of
the academic year for which the admissions are being conducted
• The candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or
equivalent as on the date of admission recognized by BIE, Telangana State
1.1.1 Seats in each programme in the Institution are classified into Category A and
3
Category B as per the G.Os.
Category – A Seats:
These seats shall be filled through counseling as per the rank in the Common
Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by the State Government and as per other
admission criteria laid down in the G.Os.
Category - B Seats:
These seats shall be filled by the Institute as per the G.Os issued by the State
Government from time to time.
1.1.2 Category: Lateral Entry
The candidate shall be admitted into the Third Semester, (2nd year, 1st semester)
based on the rank secured by the candidate in Engineering Common Entrance
Test (ECET (FDH)) by the Convener, ECET.
2. Distribution and Weights of Marks
i. The performance of a student in each semester shall be evaluated subject –wise
with a maximum of 100 marks for theory and 100 marks for practical
subjects. In addition, an Industry oriented mini-project, seminar, comprehensive
viva-voce and project work shall be evaluated for 100, 100, 100 and 200 marks
respectively.
ii. For theory subjects, the distribution shall be 40 marks for Mid-term Evaluation
and 60 marks for the Semester End Examination.
Mid-Term Evaluation (40 M):
Mid-term evaluation consists of mid-term examination (30 M) and assignment/test
(10 M).
➢ Mid-term examination (30 M):
• For theory subjects, two mid examinations shall be conducted in each
semester as per the academic calendar. Each mid examination shall be
evaluated for 30 marks.
PART-A 3 X 2M = 6 M (one question from each UNIT)
PART-B 3 X 8 M = 24 M (three internal choice questions one from each
UNIT shall be given, the student has to answer one question from each
UNIT)
• 80 % weightage for better mid-term examination and 20% weightage for the
other mid examination shall be used and calculated as the final mid-term
examination marks for each subject.
4
➢ Assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project (10 M):
• Two assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project shall be given to
the students covering the syllabus of First Mid and Second Mid Examinations
respectively and evaluated for 10 marks each.
• The first assignment shall be submitted before first mid examination and
second assignment shall be submitted before second mid examination.
• The average of 2 assignments shall be taken as final assignment marks.
iii. For practical subjects, there shall be a continuous evaluation during the
semester for 40 marks and 60 marks for semester end examination. Out of
the 40 marks, day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be evaluated for 10
marks, and 15 marks for practical examination and 15 marks for laboratory
record.
NOTE: 1. Any student who shall remain absent for any assignment/Mid-term
examination for any reason what so ever, shall be deemed to have secured
‘zero’ marks in the test/examination and no makeup test/examination shall
be conducted.
2. Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
iv. For the subjects having design and / or drawing, (such as Engineering Graphics,
Geometrical Drawing, Machine Drawing, Production Drawing Practice, and
Estimation etc.,) the distribution shall be 40 marks for internal evaluation (20
marks for day-to-day work and 20 marks for Mid examination (the average of
the two examinations shall be taken into account) and 60 marks for semester
end examination.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
v. There shall be an industry-oriented mini-project, in collaboration with an
industry of their specialization, to be taken up during the summer vacation after III
year II semester examination. The industry oriented mini project shall be
evaluated during the IV year I semester. The industry oriented mini project shall
be submitted in report form and presented before a committee, which shall
evaluate it for 100 marks. The committee shall consist of Head of the
Department, the supervisor of mini project and a senior faculty member of the
department. There shall be no mid-term assessment for industry oriented
mini project. However, attending the shadow engineering program or any
such other programme, in lieu thereof, is a pre-requisite for evaluating
industry-oriented mini project.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
5
vi. There shall be a seminar presentation in IV year II semester. For the seminar,
the student shall collect the information on a specialized topic other than the
project topic and prepare a technical report, showing his understanding of the
topic, and submit to the department, which shall be evaluated by a departmental
committee consisting of the Head of the department, seminar supervisor and a
senior faculty member. The seminar shall be evaluated for 100 marks based
on the report and presentation made.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
vii. There shall be a comprehensive viva-voce in IV year II semester. The
comprehensive viva-voce shall be conducted by a committee consisting of the
Head of the Department and three senior faculty members of the Department
after submitting the filled and duly signed M.T.P record. The comprehensive
viva-voce is aimed to assess the student’s understanding in various subjects
studied during the B.Tech. programme of study. The comprehensive viva-voce
shall be evaluated for 100 marks by the committee. There shall be no Mid-term
assessment for the comprehensive viva-voce.
Evaluation:-
a. Objective type examination – 50 marks. (Two hours test)
b. Committee evaluation – 50 marks.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s
viii. The project work shall be started by the student in the beginning of the IV year I
semester. Out of a total of 200 marks for the project work, 80 marks shall be for
mid-term evaluation and 120 marks for the semester end examination. The
viva-voce shall be conducted by a committee comprising an external examiner,
Head of the Department, the project supervisor and one senior faculty. The
evaluation of project work shall be conducted at the end of the IV year II
Semester. The mid-term evaluation shall be on the basis of three seminars
conducted during the IV year II semester for 80 marks by the committee
consisting of Head of the Department, project supervisor and senior faculty
member of the Department.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s
3. Semester End Examination (60 M):
(a) Theory Courses
Question paper pattern for semester end examination (60 Marks) consists of two
sections i.e., Part-A and Part-B.
6
PART-A:
• Shall consist of 10 questions of 02 marks each. (10X2M = 20M)
• There shall be 02 questions from each unit.
• All the questions are compulsory.
PART-B:
• Shall consist of 05 questions of 08 marks each. (05X8M = 40M)
• There shall be 01 question from each unit with internal choice.
(b) Practical Courses
Each laboratory course shall be evaluated for 60 marks. The semester end
examination shall be conducted by two examiners, one Internal and other external
concerned with the subject of the same / other department / Industry. The
evaluation shall be as per the standard format.
(c) Supplementary Examinations
Supplementary examinations shall be conducted along with regular semester end
examinations. (During even semester regular examinations, supplementary
examinations of odd semester and during odd semester regular examinations,
supplementary examinations of even semester shall be conducted).
4. Attendance Requirements
i. A student shall be eligible to appear for the semester end examinations if he / she
acquire a minimum of 75% of attendance in aggregate of all the courses in
that semester.
ii. Shortage of attendance in aggregate up to 10% (attendance of 65% and above
and below 75%) in a semester may be condoned by the Institute Academic
Committee based on the rules prescribed by the Academic Council of the
Institute from time to time.
iii. A student shall not be permitted to write the semester end examination and not
promoted to the next semester unless he/she satisfies the attendance
requirement of the present semester, as applicable. He/She may seek re-
admission for that semester when offered next, if not promoted to the next
semester.
iv. Shortage of attendance below 65% in aggregate shall in NO case be
condoned.
v. Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned or who have not paid the
stipulated fee or who have not cleared any other due to the Institute in any
semester are not eligible to writer semester end examination of that semester.
7
5. Minimum Academic Requirements
The following academic requirements have to be satisfied in addition to the attendance
requirements mentioned in Regulation No.4.
i. A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic requirements
and earned the credits allotted to each theory or practical or design or drawing
subject or project, if he/she secures not less than 35% (21 out of 60 marks) of
marks in the semester end examination and a minimum of 40% of marks in
the sum total of the mid-term evaluation and semester end examination
taken together.
ii. For promotion from II year II semester to III year I semester, the student needs to
have 50% of credits up to II year II semester which includes
➢ Two regular and two supplementary examinations of I B Tech. I semester.
➢ Two regular and one supplementary examinations of I B Tech. II semester
➢ One regular and one supplementary examinations of II year I semester.
➢ One regular examinations of II year II semester.
iii. For promotion from III year II semester to IV year I semester, the student needs to
have 50% of credits up to III year II semester which includes
➢ Three regular and three supplementary examinations of I B Tech. I semester.
➢ Three regular and two supplementary examinations of I B Tech. II semester
➢ Two regular and two supplementary examinations of II year I semester.
➢ Two regular and one supplementary examinations of II year II semester.
➢ One regular and one supplementary examination of III year I semester.
➢ One regular examination of III year II semester.
iv. A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 188
credits and earn atleast 180 credits for the award of B.Tech. degree. The
grade obtained for the minimum credits shall be considered for the calculation of
CGPA.
v. The students shall take one open elective subject each from the lists given in
open elective-1 and open elective-2. The selected subjects shall not belong to
their own branch.
vi. The student shall be qualified in two certificate courses during his/her course of
study.
vii. “Gender Sensitization” is compulsory value added course as per the JNTUH
procds. No. A1/2557/XXII SCAS/2015(2), dated 19.11.2015.
viii. Students who fail to earn atleast 180 credits as indicated in the course structure
within eight academic years counting from the year of their admission shall
forfeit their seat in B.Tech. programme and their admission stands cancelled.
8
6. Course pattern
i. The entire programme of study is of four academic years. All I, II, III and IV years
are of semester pattern.
ii. A student eligible to appear for the semester end examination in a subject, but
absent or has failed in the semester end examination may reappear for that
subject in the supplementary examination whenever conducted.
iii. When a student is detained due to shortage of attendance in any semester,
he/she shall seek readmission into that semester when it is offered next, with the
academic regulations of the batch into which he/she gets readmitted and
has to obtain the degree within 8 academic years from the year of his/her
original admission.
iv. When a student is detained due to lack of credits in any year, he/she may be
eligible for promotion to the next year after obtaining the required number of
credits and fulfillment of the academic requirements.
7. Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. degree if he/she fulfils
the following academic regulations:
i. Pursued a programme of study for not less than four academic years and
not more than eight academic years.
ii. Registered for 188 credits and secured a minimum of 180 credits with
compulsory subjects as listed in the following Table.
Table: Compulsory Courses
S. No. Courses Particulars
1. All Practical Courses
2. Industry oriented mini project
3. Comprehensive Viva-Voce
4. Seminar
5. Project work
6. Engineering Graphics / Engineering Drawing / Machine Drawing
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award of the
degree within eight academic years from the year of their admission, shall forfeit
their seat in B.Tech. programme.
8. CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points in four year B.Tech. degree
programme is as follows:
• Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the total marks obtained in mid-
term and semester end examinations.
9
• Grades and Grade points are assigned as given below.
Description Grade Points(GP)
Marks Obtained Grade
of Grade Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A+ Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 A Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 B Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 C Fair 6.00
>=40 and <49.99 D Pass 5.00
<40 F Fail
--
Not Appeared the Exam(s) N Absent
• The student is eligible for the award of the B.Tech. degree with the class as
mentioned in the following table.
CGPA Class
>= 7.5 First Class with Distinction
>= 6.5 and <7.5 First Class
>= 5.5 and < 6.5 Second Class
>=5.0 and < 5.5 Pass Class
➢ Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
The performance of each student at the end of the each semester shall be indicated in
terms of SGPA. The SGPA shall be calculated as below:
10
Where Ci = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘i’
Gi = Grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to the subject ‘i’
i = 1,2,…..p represent the number of subjects in a particular semester
Note: SGPA is calculated and awarded for the candidates who pass all the courses in
a semester.
➢ Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA):
The CGPA of a student for the entire programme shall be calculated as given
below:
• Assessment of the overall performance of a student shall be obtained by
calculating Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA), which is weighted average
of the grade points obtained in all subjects during the course of study.
Where Cj = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘j’
Gj = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to that subject ‘j’
j = 1,2,….m represent the number of subjects of the entire program.
• Grade lower than D in any subject shall not be considered for CGPA calculation.
The CGPA shall be awarded only when the student acquires the required number
of credits prescribed for the program.
11
➢ Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
9. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to the Institute, or if any case of indiscipline is pending
against him, the result of the candidate may be withheld. The award or issue of the
Provisional Certificate and the Degree may also be withheld in such cases.
10. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or any
other academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and when they
become eligible. They have to take up Equivalent subjects, as substitute subjects in
place of repeated subjects as decided by the Chairman of the BoS of the respective
departments. He/She shall be admitted under the regulation of the batch in which
he/she is readmitted.
11. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each semester shall be 90 instruction days.
12. There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission process.
13. The decision of the Institute Academic Committee shall be final in respect of
equivalent subjects for those students who are transferred from other colleges.
The transfer of students from other college or from this institute is to be
approved by the Governing Council of the Institute.
14. General
i. Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include “she”,
“her”, “hers”.
ii. The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
iii. In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arising in the above rules and
regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
iv. The Chairman Academic Council may change or amend any or all of the
academic regulations or syllabi at any time and the changes or amendments
made shall be applicable to all the students concerned with effect from the dates
notified by the College.
12
15. Academic Regulations for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2016-2017)
A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. degree if he/she fulfils
the following academic regulations:
i. Pursued a programme of study for not less than three academic years and
not more than six academic years.
ii. Registered for 138 credits and secured a minimum of 130 credits with
compulsory subjects as listed in the following Table.
Table: Compulsory Courses
S. No. Courses Particulars
1. All Practical Courses
2. Industry oriented mini project
3. Comprehensive Viva-Voce
4. Seminar
5. Project work
6. Engineering Graphics / Engineering Drawing / Machine Drawing
iii. A student who fails to earn a minimum of 130 credits as indicated in the course
structure within six academic years from the year of their admission shall forfeit
his/her seat in B.Tech. programme and his admission stands cancelled.
iv. The same attendance regulations are adopted as that of B.Tech. four year degree
course.
v. For promotion from III year II semester to IV year I semester, the student needs
to have 50% of credits up to III year II semester which includes
➢ Two regular and two supplementary examinations of II B Tech. I semester
➢ Two regular and one supplementary examinations of II B Tech. II semester
➢ One regular and one supplementary examinations of III B.Tech. I semester
➢ One regular of examinations of III year II semester
vi. All other regulations as applicable to B.Tech. four year degree course shall hold
good for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme).
16. Malpractice Rules
Disciplinary Action for Malpractices/Improper Conduct in Examinations
Nature of Malpractices/Improper
S.
conduct
Punishment
No.
If the candidate:
1. (a) Possesses or keeps accessible in Expulsion from the examination hall
13
examination hall, any paper, note book, and cancellation of the
programmable calculators, Cell phones, performance in that subject only.
pager, palm computers or any other form
of material concerned with or related to
the subject of the examination (theory or
practical) in which he is appearing but
has not made use of (material shall
include any marks on the body of the
candidate which can be used as an aid
in the subject of the examination)
(b)Gives assistance or guidance or Expulsion from the examination hall
receives it from any other candidate and cancellation of the
orally or by any other body language performance in that subject only of
methods or communicates through cell all the candidates involved. In case
phones with any candidate or persons in of an outsider, he shall be handed
or outside the exam hall in respect of over to the police and a case is
any matter. registered against him.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of the
performance in that subject and all
other subjects the candidate has
Has copied in the examination hall from
already appeared including
any paper, book, programmable
practical examinations and project
calculators, palm computers or any other
2. work and shall not be permitted to
form of material relevant to the subject of
appear for the remaining
the examination (theory or practical) in
examinations of the subjects of that
which the candidate is appearing.
Semester/year.
The Hall Ticket of the candidate is
to be cancelled.
The candidate who has
impersonated shall be expelled
from examination hall. The
Impersonates any other candidate in
3. candidate is also debarred and
connection with the examination.
forfeits the seat. The performance
of the original candidate, who has
been impersonated, shall be
cancelled in all the subjects of the
14
examination (including practicals
and project work) already appeared
and shall not be allowed to appear
for examinations of the remaining
subjects of that semester/year.
The candidate is also debarred for
two consecutive semesters from
class work and all end semester
examinations. The continuation of
the course by the candidate is
subject to the academic regulations
in connection with forfeiture of seat.
If the imposter is an outsider, he
shall be handed over to the police
and a case is registered against
him.
4.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of performance in
that subject and all the other
subjects the candidate has already
appeared including practical
examinations and project work and
Smuggles the Answer book or additional
shall not be permitted for the
sheet or takes out or arranges to send
remaining examinations of the
out the question paper during the
subjects of that semester/year. The
examination or answer book or
candidate is also debarred for two
additional sheet, during or after the
consecutive semesters from class
examination.
work and all end semester and
supplementary examinations The
continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the
academic regulations in connection
with forfeiture of seat.
Uses objectionable, abusive or offensive
Cancellation of the performance in
5. language in the answer paper or in
that subject.
letters to the examiners or writes to the
examiner requesting him to award pass
15
marks.
Refuses to obey the orders of the Chief
Superintendent/Assistant–
Superintendent / any officer on duty or
misbehaves or creates disturbance of
any kind in and around the examination
In case of students of the college,
hall or organizes a walk out or instigates
they shall be expelled from
others to walk out, or threatens the
examination halls and cancellation
officer-in charge or any person on duty
of their performance in that subject
in or outside the examination hall of any
and all other subjects the
injury to his person or to any of his
candidate(s) has (have) already
relations whether by words, either
appeared and shall not be
spoken or written or by signs or by
permitted to appear for the
6. visible representation, assaults the
remaining examinations of the
officer-in-charge, or any person on duty
subjects of that semester/year.
in or outside the examination hall or any
The candidates are also debarred
of his relations, or indulges in any other
and they shall forfeit their seats. In
act of misconduct or mischief which
case of outsiders, they shall be
result in damage to or destruction of
handed over to the police and a
property in the examination hall or any
police case is registered against
part of the College campus or engages
them.
in any other act which in the opinion of
the officer on duty amounts to use of
unfair means or misconduct or has the
tendency to disrupt the orderly conduct
of the examination.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of performance in
that subject and all the other
subjects the candidate has already
Leaves the exam hall taking away appeared including practical
answer script or intentionally tears of the examinations and project work and
7.
script or any part thereof inside or shall not be permitted for the
outside the examination hall. remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year.
The candidate is also debarred for
two consecutive semesters from
class work and all end semester
examinations including
16
supplementary Examinations. The
continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the
academic regulations in connection
with forfeiture of seat.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of the
performance in that subject and all
other subjects the candidate has
Possesses any lethal weapon or firearm
already appeared including
in the examination hall.
8. practical examinations and project
work and shall not be permitted for
the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year.
The candidate is also debarred and
forfeits the seat.
If the student belongs to the
college, expulsion from the
examination hall and cancellation of
the performance in that subject and
all other subjects the candidate has
already appeared including
If student of the college, who is not a
practical examinations and project
candidate for the particular examination
work and shall not be permitted for
or any person not connected with the
9. the remaining examinations of the
college indulges in any malpractice or
subjects of that semester/year. The
improper conduct mentioned in any of
candidate is also debarred and
clauses 6 to 8.
forfeits the seat.
Person(s) who do not belong
to the College shall be handed over
to police and, a police case shall be
registered against them.
Expulsion from the examination hall
Comes in a drunken condition to the and cancellation of the
10.
examination hall. performance in that subject and all
other subjects the candidate has
already appeared including
17
practical examinations and project
work and shall not be permitted for
the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that series of the
semester/year.
Cancellation of the performance in
that subject and all other subjects
Copying detected on the basis of internal
the candidate has appeared
11. evidence, such as, during valuation or
including practical examinations
during special scrutiny.
and project work of that
semester/year.
If any malpractice is detected which is
not covered in the above clauses 1 to 11
12. shall be reported to the academic
council of the Institute for further action
to award suitable punishment.
Malpractices identified by squad or special invigilators
Punishments shall be given to the candidates as per the above guidelines.
Malpractice identified at Spot center during valuation
The following procedure is to be followed in the case of malpractice cases detected
during valuation, scrutiny etc. at spot center.
1) Malpractice is detected at the spot valuation. The case is to be referred to the
malpractice committee. Malpractice committee shall meet and discuss/question
the candidate and based on the evidences, the committee shall recommend
suitable action on the candidate.
2) A notice is to be served to the candidate(s) involved, through the Principal, to his
address and to the candidate(s) permanent address regarding the malpractice
and seek explanations.
18
3) The involvement of staff who are in charge of conducting examinations,
invigilators, examiners valuing examination papers and preparing / keeping
records of documents related to the examinations in such acts (inclusive of
providing incorrect or misleading information) that infringe upon the course of
natural justice to one and all concerned at the examinations shall be viewed
seriously and recommend for award of appropriate punishment after thorough
enquiry.
4) Based on the explanation by the party involved and recommendations of the
committee action may be initiated.
5) Malpractice committee:
i. Dean, Academics Chairman
ii. Controller of Examinations Convener
iii. Invigilator Member
iv. Chief Examiner of the subject/subject expert Member
v. Concerned Head of the Department Member
Program Educational Objectives (PEO’s)
Program Educational Objectives of B.Tech in Computer Science Engineering are to:
PEO I The graduates of the program will become proficient in the principles and practices
of computer science, mathematics and science, enabling them to solve a wide range of
computing related problems.
PEO II To enable the students with innovative applications of engineering knowledge and
programming skills to spearhead the progress of society in the information age.
PEO III To mould the students into competent, successful, and practicing engineers in
their career and/or in pursuing their higher studies through the spirit of innovation and
entrepreneurship
PEO IV To provide exposure to cutting edge technologies, adequate training and
opportunities to work individually and as teams on multidisciplinary projects with effective
analytical skills
19
PEO V To acquire and practice the profession with ethics, integrity and leadership
qualities with due consideration to environmental issues in conformance with societal
needs.
Program Outcomes (PO’s)
Upon completion of the programme, the student will be able
a. To apply and integrate knowledge of computing to the engineering discipline
b. To identify, analyze, formulate and solve complex problems related to computer science
and engineering.
c. To design, construct and evaluate a computer based system, process or component, to
meet the evolving needs.
d. To demonstrate application of engineering skills and techniques for efficient development
of projects and products.
e. To use modern techniques and tools necessary for computing practice that drives
towards entrepreneurship
f. To develop innovative ideas that can be translated into commercial products benefiting
the society and the economic growth.
g. To understand the impact of engineering solutions in a social, global, environmental and
economic context.
h. To posses leadership and management skills with best professional, ethical practices
and social concern
i. To interact professionally with others in the workplace and to function effectively as an
individual and in a group.
j. To demonstrate quality skills so as to speak, listen and present effectively the acquired
technical knowledge to a range of audience.
k. To utilize project management skills and principles of finance and economics in the
construction of hardware and software systems with business objective.
l. To substantiate contemporary knowledge and technological developments by being a
continuous learner.
20
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH Computer Science and Engineering
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5BS11 Advanced Calculus 3 0 3
5BS21 Engineering Physics 3 0 3
5BS32 Engineering Chemistry 3 0 3
5BS01 English 3 0 3
5CS01 Computer Programming 3 1 4
5CE03 Environmental Studies 3 0 3
5ME53 IT and Engineering Workshop 0 3 2
5CS51 Computer Programming Laboratory 0 3 2
Engineering Physics and Engineering
5BS25 0 3 2
Chemistry Laboratory
Total 18 10 25
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
Ordinary Differential Equations and
5BS12 3 0 3
Laplace Transforms
5BS 13 Computational Methods 3 0 3
5BS24 Applied Physics 3 1 4
5CS11 Code of Ethics 3 0 3
5IT02 Data Structures 3 1 4
5ME19 Engineering Drawing 2 4 4
5IT52 Data Structures Laboratory 0 3 2
English Language Communications Skills
5BS02 0 3 2
Laboratory
Total 17 12 25
21
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH Computer Science and Engineering
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5BS17 Probability, Statistics and Queuing Theory 3 0 3
5EE22 Elements of Electrical and Electronics Engineering 3 0 3
5IT03 Advanced Data Structures through C++ 3 0 3
5CS02 Mathematical Foundations for Computer Science 3 1 4
5BS41 Business Economics and Financial Analysis 3 0 3
5CS03 Digital Logic Design 3 0 3
Elements of Electrical and Electronics Engineering
5EE62 0 3 2
Laboratory
5IT53 Advanced Data Structures through C++ Laboratory 0 3 2
Total 18 7 23
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH Computer Science and EngineeringII YEAR II SEMESTER
COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5CS04 Formal Languages and Automata Theory 3 1 4
5CS05 Data Base Management Systems 3 0 3
5IT04 Computer Organization 3 0 3
5CS06 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 0 3
5CS07 Software Engineering 3 0 3
5CS15 JAVA Programming 3 0 3
5CS52 Data Base Management Systems Laboratory 0 3 2
JAVA Programming and Design Analysis of
5CS53 0 3 2
Algorithms Laboratory
Total 18 7 23
#5BS04 Gender Sensitization - 3 2
Value added Course
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
22
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH Computer Science Engineering
III YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5IT08 Operating Systems 3 0 3
5CS08 Object Oriented Analysis and Design 3 0 3
5IT06 Computer Networks 3 0 3
5CS09 Compiler Design 3 1 4
Open Elective – I 3 0 3
Advanced English Language
5BS03 0 3 2
Communications Skills Laboratory
Operating Systems and Computer
5IT59 0 3 2
Networks Laboratory
5CS54 Compiler Design and OOAD Laboratory 0 3 2
Total 15 10 22
OPEN ELECTIVE – I
Course Course Name Course Offered By
Code the Department
5CE71 Disaster Management CE
5EE71 Renewable Energy Technologies EEE
5ME71 Digital Fabrication ME
5EC71 Principles of Electronic Communications ECE
5CS71 Object Oriented Programming through CSE
Java
5EI71 Principles of Measurements and EIE
Instrumentation
5IT71 Cyber Security IT
5AE71 Principles of Automobile Engineering AE
5BS71 Professional Ethics and Human Values H&S
T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
23
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH Computer Science Engineering
III YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5IT12 Web Technologies 3 1 4
5CS12 Introduction to Analytics 3 0 3
5IT10 Linux Internals 3 0 3
5CS13 Data Mining 3 1 4
Open Elective – II 3 0 3
Data Mining and Analytics
5CS55 0 3 2
Laboratory
5IT58 Web Technologies Laboratory 0 3 2
5CS56 Linux Internals Laboratory 0 3 2
Total 15 11 23
Open Electives-II
Course Course Name Course Offered By
Code the Department
5CE72 Introduction to Geographical Information System CE
5EE72 Energy Auditing Conservation and Management EEE
5ME72 Optimization Techniques ME
5EC72 Introduction to Micro Processors and Controllers ECE
5EC95 Wireless Communications and Networks ECE
5CS72 Open Source Technologies CSE
5EI72 LabVIEW Programming EIE
5EI79 Fundamentals of Robotics EIE
5IT72 Relational Database Management Systems IT
5AE72 Modern Automotive Technologies AE
5BS72 Entrepreneurship H&S
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
24
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH Computer Science Engineering
IV YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course Code Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
5CS17 Big Data Analytics 3 0 3
5BS42 Management Science 3 0 3
5CS16 Network Security 3 0 3
5CS10 Artificial Intelligence & Neural Network 3 0 3
Elective – I
5IT75 Mobile Computing
5IT81 Information Security Management
3 0 3
5CS74 Gaming Engineering
5CS75 Computer Graphics and Animation
Elective – II
5CS76 Introduction to Internet of Things
5CS77 Building Enterprise Applications
3 0 3
5CS78 Advanced Databases
5IT77 Cloud Computing
5CS57 Network Security laboratory 0 3 2
5CS58 Big Data Analytics Laboratory 0 3 2
5CS91 Industry Oriented Mini Project 0 4 2
Total 18 10 24
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
25
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH Computer Science Engineering
IV YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5CS18 Predictive Analytics 3 0 3
Elective –III
5CS79 Semantic Web and Social Networks
Information Security Assessments
5IT82
and Audits
3 0 3
5CS80 Bio – Informatics
5CS82 Software Project Management
Elective – IV
5CS81 Cognitive Science
5IT76 Information Retrieval Systems
3 0 3
5CS83 Software Defined Networks
5CS84 Multi Core Technologies
5CS92 Technical Seminar 0 3 2
5CS93 Comprehensive Viva-voce 0 0 2
5CS94 Project Work 0 20 10
Total 9 23 23
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
26
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS11) ADVANCED CALCULUS
Course prerequisites: Differentiation, Integration
Course Objectives:
• Understand the Taylor’s theorem and its application to maxima and minima of
f(x,y)
• Understand the process of curve Tracing.
• Understand multiple integrals and its applications
• Apply integral theorems of vector calculus.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Solve problems involving the maxima and minima of f(x,y).
• Trace curves using basic characteristics.
• Evaluate integrals using special functions and change of variables.
• Evaluate vector integrals.
UNIT I
CALCULUS OF ONE AND SEVERAL REAL VARIABLES Mean value theorems – Role’s
Theorem, Lagrange’s Mean value theorem Cauchy’s Mean value theorem , Taylor’s
expansion and McLaurin’s expansion of functions (without proofs).
Partial differentiation, partial derivatives of first and second order in terms of partial
derivatives, change of variables , Jacobian, Taylor’s theorem of two variables(without
proof). Maxima and Minima of two variables, Langrange’s method of undetermined
multipliers.
UNIT II
CURVE TRACING AND RELATED APPLICATIONS
Radius of Curvature of curves in Cartesian, parametric and polar coordinates. Tracing of
curves in Cartesian, parametric and polar coordinates (like conics, astroid, hypocycloid,
Folium of Descartes, Cycloid, Circle, Cardiode, Lemniscate).
UNIT III
MULTIPLE INTEGRALS
Beta, Gamma and Error functions, Introduction of Multiple integrals , evaluation of double
and triple integrals, change of order of integration change of variables , Cylindrical and
Spherical polar coordinates.
UNIT IV
VECTOR DIFFERENTIAL CALCULUS
Scalar and Vector point functions, Gradient, Divergence, Curl with geometrical & physical
interpretation, Directional derivatives, vector identities (without proofs).
27
UNIT V
VECTOR INTEGRAL CALCULUS
Line integrals and application to Work done and Circulation, Scalar potential function,
Surface integrals and Volume integrals, Gauss divergence theorem, Green’s theorem,
Stokes’ theorem (theorems without proof).
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – by B. S. Grewal,Khanna publishers
2. Calculus and Analytic Geometry by Thomas and Finney, 9th edition; Publisher:
Pearson Education.
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition; Publisher:
John Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter ‘O’ Neil, publisher: Cengage
Learning .
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa
Publications
28
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS21)ENGINEERING PHYSICS
Course Objectives
• To supplement and enhance the knowledge of basic concepts in physics
essentially required in the study of interaction of light with matter and behavior of
a particle quantum mechanically.
• To Study and understand various phenomena of light- Interference, Diffraction,
Dispersion and total internal reflection.
• To learn and enhance the basic concepts in physics required to deal with large
number of particles and behavior of an electron in metals.
• To understand the basic principles and working of lasers and optical fibers.
• To learn simple applications of these concepts and principles in engineering and
technology.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Realize influence of diffraction and resolvability in optical elements.
• Recognize importance of interference in thin films.
• Distinguish LASER light from ordinary light and describe propagation of light
through Optical fiber by Total Internal reflection.
• Illustrate behavior of a particle in one dimensional potential box.
• Understand behavior of electron in a periodic potential in real crystal and classify
Solids based on conduction.
UNIT I
INTERFERENCE:
Introduction, Superposition principle, Resultant amplitude, Coherence - Methods to obtain
coherent sources, Interference, Young’s Double Slit Experiment, interference thin films by
reflection, Newton’s rings Experiment-Formation of Rings and Experimental Method,
Characteristics of rings, Applications.
UNIT II
DIFFRACTION:
Introduction, Distinguish between Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction, diffraction at single slit
(Phasors approach). Diffraction at double slit, circular aperture, and multiple slits (grating)(
Qualitative Approach)-Width of Principal Maxima and Dispersion, Resolution of spectral
lines, Rayleigh criterion, and resolving power of grating.
29
UNIT III
LASERS AND OPTICAL FIBERS:
Introduction, Characteristics of Lasers, Spontaneous and Stimulated Emission of radiation,
Meta stable state, population inversion, lasing action, Einstein’s coefficients and relation
between them, Ruby Laser, Helium-Neon Laser, Semiconductor Laser, Principle of optical
fiber and Properties, Acceptance angle and acceptance cone, Numerical aperture, Types of
fibers based on refractive index profiles, Qualitative analysis of attenuation in optical fibers,
Application of Lasers and Optical fibers.
UNIT IV
ELEMENTS OF QUANTUM MECHANICS:
Waves and particles, De Broglie hypothesis, Matter waves, Davisson and Germer
experiment, Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle- Applying it to Non existence of electron in
Nucleus and Single slit Experiment, Schrodinger Wave Equation – Wave function and its
Physical Significance, Particle in one dimensional potential box(wave functions, probability
densities and energy states), Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics
(non-mathematical treatment).
UNIT V
ELECTRON THEORY OF METALS:
Energy levels in one dimension, Effect of temperature on the Fermi-Dirac distribution,
Electrical conductivity & Ohm’s law, Electrical Resistivity of Metals (Qualitative), Electron in
a periodic potential, Bloch Theorem, Kronig-Penney model (non-mathematical treatment),
Origin of energy band formation in solids, Classification of materials into conductors,
semiconductors & Insulators and Concept of effective mass of an electron.
TEXT BOOKS:
(1) Physics vol.2, by Halliday, Resnick and Krane; John Wiley & Sons
(2) Engineering Physics by R.K.Gaur and S.L.Gupta; Dhanpat Rai and Sons
REFERENCES:
(1) Optics by Ghatak and Thyagarajan, Tata Mc Graw
(2) Concepts of Modern physics by Arthur Beiser, McGraw Hill Inc.
(3) Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel : John Wiley & Sons
(4) Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd.
(5) Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
30
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS32)ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
Pre-requisites: Basic knowledge of mathematics and chemistry.
Course Objectives:
• Understanding the concept of generating electricity by batteries.
• Conceptual knowledge of corrosion science.
• Acquiring the knowledge of preparation, properties and usage of polymers.
• Applying the concept of hardness to analyze various boiler troubles in steam
generation.
• Familiarize the features of carbon nanotubes, composites and self- healing
materials.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Interpret the chemical applications of the various types of batteries used in the
present day world.
• Acquire the knowledge of corrosion for protecting structures and safeguarding the
economy.
• Evaluate the suitability of various polymers for different applications.
• Analyze and compare the different softening techniques of water.
• Summarize the applications of carbon nanotubes, composites and self- healing
materials.
UNIT-I
Batteries and Fuel cells (10 periods)
Electrochemistry-definition, types of cells- differences between electrolytic and
electrochemical cells, conditions of reversibility, principle of batteries, Primary cells-(Dry
cell, Mercury battery) and secondary cells -lead-acid cell; Ni-Cd cell; lithium- ion cells
(intercalated); Fuel cells : methanol – oxygen fuel cell, advantages of fuel cells; Solar cells -
principle and applications.
UNIT-II
Corrosion and its control (12 periods)
Introduction; Causes and effects of corrosion; Theories of corrosion – chemical and
electrochemical corrosion (reactions); Types of corrosion ( Differential aeration corrosion:
pitting, crevice and waterline corrosion, Differential metal corrosion: galvanic corrosion) ;
Factors affecting corrosion – nature of metal (position of metal in galvanic series-
differences between electrochemical & galvanic series; passivity; purity of metal; nature of
31
oxide film; nature of corrosion product), and nature of environment (effect of temperature;
effect of pH; humidity; formation of oxygen concentration cells).
Corrosion control methods – cathodic protection-sacrificial anode and impressed current
cathodic protection.
Surface coatings –differences between galvanizing and tinning; cladding; electroplating
(copper plating), Paints - constituents and functions.
UNIT-III
Polymers (8 periods)
Plastics - Thermoplastic resins, and Thermosetting resins, fabrication of plastics –
compression, injection. Preparation, properties, and engineering applications of PE, PVC,
Teflon, Bakelite, Nylon and Kevlar.
Rubber
Processing and vulcanization, preparation, properties, and engineering applications of
Buna-S; Butyl rubber and Thiokol rubber.
UNIT-IV
Water and its Treatment (10 periods)
Introduction; Hardness - causes, expression of hardness, units, types of hardness,
numerical problems. Estimation of temporary & permanent hardness of water by EDTA
method (no numerical problems). Boiler troubles - scale & sludge formation, caustic
embrittlement, boiler corrosion, priming & foaming. Softening of water by zeolite and ion
exchange process (no numerical problems), Desalination processes. reverse osmosis.
UNIT-V
Smart materials (8 periods)
Nanomaterials -Introduction; preparation and applications of nanomaterials with special
reference to carbon nanotubes.
Composites-Need for composites, classification based on reinforcing material (Fiber
reinforced composites –glass, carbon and aramid), applications of composites.
Self-healing materials- Definition, features, principle of self-healing materials and their
applications.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna Cherukuri;
Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain & Monica Jain, Publisher: Dhanpatrai Publishing
Company.
REFERENCES:
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara & Mukkanti; Publisher: S.Chand &
Co.
2. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna; McGraw Hill Edu.Pvt.Ltd.
3. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, Sulochana
Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
4. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi, Cengage Learning
Publications.
32
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS01) ENGLISH
Introduction
This is the age of information and communication technologies. Engineers and technical
professionals need to convey technical information in English for various purposes.
Besides learning general English as an international language, engineering students need to be
equipped with adequate writing ability so that they can communicate technical information clearly
on at least a basic level. A good English writing proficiency can be a contributing factor to
professional recognition and career prospects. This course teaches those writing strategies that
scientists, engineers, and others will need in order to write successfully on the job. It initiates the
students into Technical Writing. The purposes of technical writing are to inform and persuade.
This program aims to train students in writing clear, concise and effective English and also
develop their reading skills.
This Syllabus is therefore, a Pragmatic English Writing and Reading Program for engineering
students with intermediate proficiency. The program covers a syllabus outline and instructional
approaches on basic writing and reading skills with particular reference to technical writing.
Course Objectives:
• To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for academic writing and speaking.
• To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns, reading
techniques and grammatical constructions required in technical writing as well as oral
communication.
• To acquaint the students with the writing process in preparation for academic and
workplace writing.
• Equip the students with the concept of coherence and cohesion for meaningful
and coherent communication.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
• Comprehend technical writing produced in the engineering profession
• Understand the writing process and create logical paragraphs
• Use infrastructural patterns in writing and speaking
• Students communicate coherently orally and in writing.
Methodology
A Task-based, process oriented methodology will be used by the teachers to give a practical
orientation to the teaching of language. An inductive approach will be used to demonstrate the
use of language in context. This should enable the students to internalize the language structures
and vocabulary used in context. Students will be exposed to numerous examples and ample
practice will be given in the contextual use of language structures.
Unit I : Review of Grammar
i) Common Errors v) Use of Articles and Prepositions
ii) Subject-Verb Agreement vi) Conjunctions
33
iii) Adverbs vii) pronoun reference
iv) Transitional elements
Unit II : Prose 1
• Heaven’s Gate by Pico Iyer
• The Connoisseur by Nergis Dalal
Unit III Reading and Writing Skills
• Reading Comprehension -- Skimming & scanning
• Reading Comprehension -- Intensive & extensive reading
• Paragraph Writing
• Letter Writing
• Memo Writing
Unit IV : Prose 2
• The Cuddalore Experience by Anu George
• The Odds Against Us by Satyajit Ray
Unit V : Writing Skills
1. Comparison and Contrast Pattern
2. Cause and Effect Pattern
3. Classification
4. Analogy (Introductory Level)
5. Problem-Solution Pattern
Prescribed Text Books
• Enjoying Everyday English by A. Ramakrishna Rao
• Effective Technical Communication by Ashraf Rizvi
• Technical Writing Process and Product by Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson 3rd
edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
References
• M. Raman and S. Sharma, 2004; Technical Communication : Principles and Practices,
OUP, (Indian Edition)
• Blanton, L.L. 1993; Composition Practice, Book 4 ,Second Edition, Heinle & Heinle
Publishers, pp. 54
• Georges, T.M. 1996; A course in Analytical Writing for Science and Technology,
http://www.mspiggy.etl.noaa.gov/write/
34
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5CS01) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING
(Common to EEE, ECE, CSE, EIE and IT)
Course objectives
• To Relate basics of programming language constructs and problem solving
techniques
• To classify and implement derived data types
• To analyze and develop effective modular programming
• To construct mathematical problems and real time applications using C language
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course student is able to
• Understand the computer fundamentals, basics of C Programming for problem
solving and represent the same as algorithm, flow chart and pseudo code.
• Solve problems using C language constructs, basic and derived data types.
• Design programs using modular approach.
• Choose the appropriate programming constructs to solve a given problem.
UNIT- I
Computer fundamentals-Hardware, software, computer language , translators,
Program Development steps-Algorithms, Pseudo code, flow charts, basic Linux
commands ,Introduction to C Language – History, Simple C Program, Identifiers, Basic
data types, user defined data types, Variables, Constants, type qualifiers, Managing
Input / Output, Operators, Expressions, Precedence and Associativity, Expression
Evaluation, Type conversions, Simple C Programming examples.
UNIT – II
Selection Statements – if and switch statements, Repetitive statements – while, for,
do-while statements, C Programming examples, other statements related to looping –
break, continue, go to, C Programming examples.
UNIT – III
Arrays– Basic concepts, one-dimensional arrays, two – dimensional arrays,
multidimensional arrays, C programming examples.
Introduction to Structured Programming, Functions- basics, user defined functions,
inter function communication, Standard functions, Storage classes-auto, register,
static, extern, scope rules, arrays to functions, recursive functions, example C
programs.
.
UNIT – IV
Strings – Basic concepts, String Input / Output functions, arrays of strings, string
handling functions, strings to functions, C programming examples
35
Derived types – Structures – Basic concepts, nested structures, arrays of structures,
structures and functions, unions, bit fields, C programming examples.
UNIT – V
Preprocessor Directives, Pointers – Basic concepts, pointers and functions, pointers
and strings, pointers and arrays, pointers and structures, self-referential structures ,
example C programs.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. C programming A Problem-Solving Approach by Behrouz
A.Forouzan,E.V.Prasad,RichardF.Gilberg
2. How To Program:C, Dietel & Dietel, Seventh Edition,PHI
REFERENCES:
1. The C Programming Language by Brian W. Kernighan, Dennis M. Ritchie.
2. Absolute beginner's guide to C, Greg M. Perry, Edition 2,Publisher: Sams Pub.,
1994.
3. Computer Programming and Data Structures by E Balagurusamy, Tata McGraw Hill.
4. Let Us C Yashavantkanetkar BPB
36
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE03) ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
(Common to ALL)
Course Objectives
After completion of the course student is able to
• Recognize the importance of environment and ecosystem
• Identify &Analyze human activities and its impact on environment.
• List and understand about the importance of natural resources, Biodiversity &
effect of environment pollution
• Understand about environmental regulations ,economy and environment
interaction
Course Outcomes
On successful completion of this course, it is expected that students should be able to
• Acquire the knowledge about importance of environment & ecosystem
• Develop skills in understanding of various environmental problems
• Find the solution and strategies to protect the Environment
• List & Distinguish various organizations, regulations for environment protection
UNIT-I
Environmental Studies:
Introduction, Definition, scope and importance. Ecosystems: Introduction, types,
characteristic features, structure and functions of ecosystems. Bio-geo-chemical cycle,
Classification of Ecosystem.
Bio-diversity and its conservation- Value of bio-diversity, Bio-geographical classification
of India – India as a mega diversity habitat, Threats to bio-diversity –Hot-spots, habitat loss,
poaching of wild life, loss of species, seeds, etc. Conservation of bio-diversity – In-situ and
Ex-situ conservation.
UNIT-II
Natural Resources: classification of Resources, Land resources, Common property
resources, Land degradation, Soil erosion and desertification, Effects of modern agriculture,
fertilizer –pesticide problems, Forest resources, Use and over-exploitation, food resources,
food miles.
Mining and dams – benefits & effects, Water resources, Use and over - utilization of
surface and groundwater, Floods, droughts, Water logging and salinity, Conflicts over
Water, Energy resources.
37
UNIT-III
Environmental pollution and its control: Classification of pollution and pollutants, Air
pollution, Causes, Effects, Control measures, ambient air quality standards, water pollution
causes, effects, control measures, water quality standards, Marine pollution causes, effects
& control measures, noise pollution causes, effects and control measures, land pollution
causes, effects and control measures, solid waste management, e-waste management.
UNIT-IV
Global environmental problems and global efforts: Nuclear hazards, Nuclear Pollution,
Global warming, Acid rains, ozone layer depletion, over population, hazardous waste.
Clean development mechanism, green building, carbon credits, carbon trading.
International Conventions/protocols: UNEP, UNFCC, Earth summit, Kyoto protocol,
Montreal protocol and Stockholm declaration.
UNIT-V
Environmental policy, legislation, rules and regulations : National Environmental Policy
Environmental Protection act, Legal aspects Air (Prevention anc Control of pollution ) Act-
1981, Water( Prevention and Control of pollution ) Act-1974, Water pollution Cess Act-
1977, Forest Conservation Act, Municipal solid waste management and handling rules,
biomedical waste management and handling rules, hazardous waste management and
handling rules .
Economy and Environment, The economy and environment interaction, Economics of
development, preservation and Conservation, Sustainability: theory and practices.
Environmental Impact Assessment, Rain water harvesting, cloud seeding and watershed
management.
TEXT BOOKS :
1. Environmental Science by Y.Anjaneyulu, B S Publications, 2004.
2. Environmental studies by Deeksha dave, Cengage learning India Pvt. Ltd, 1st edition,
2011.
REFERENCES :
1. Environmental Studies for UG Courses, Bharucha Erach, UGC Publications, Delhi, 2004.
2. Environmental Encyclopedia by Cunningham, W.P., et al., Jaico Publishing House,
Mumbai, 2003.
3. Environmental sciences and Engineering by P.Venugopal Rao, PHI Learning Pvt. Ltd.,
4. Environmental Science and Technology by M. Anji Reddy, B S Publications, 2010.
38
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
2
0 3
(5ME53) IT AND ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
(Common to EEE, ECE, CSE, EIE and IT)
Course Prerequisites: basic knowledge about different Trades, computer hardware,
Operating System, different trades in mechanical engineering.
Course Objectives:
• To study/demonstrate the concepts of computer w.r.t. it’s hardware.
• To install the operating system and perform various tasks
• To conduct the experiments related to production engineering technology.
• To demonstrate the usage of power tools, CNC lathe and machine shop for
different exercises
Course Outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Identify, assemble and dissemble the given configuration of a computer.
• Install the operating system in the given configuration of a computer and execute
commands for LINUX Operating System
• To develop components using the techniques of carpentry, tin smithy, forging,
etc. listed in trades for exercises.
• To work out the given models in machine shop and CNC lathe.
ITWORKSHOP
• Computer Hardware: Identification of Peripherals
• Study of UPS and SMPS
• Assembling and disassembling of a PC
• Simple diagnostic exercises – Related to hardware
• Installation of Windows Operating System
• Installation of Linux Operating System
• Linux Basic Commands
• Simple diagnostic exercises –Related to Operating System
TEXTBOOKS:
1. IT Essentials PC Hardware and Software Companion Guide Third Edition by Davis
Anfinson and Ken Quamme CISC Press, Pearson Education.
2. PC Hardware and A+ Handbook – Kate J. Chase PHI (Microsoft)
ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
TRADES FOR EXCERCISES
At least two exercises from each trade:
39
1. Carpentry
2. Tin-Smithy
3. Fitting
4. Welding
5. Electrical Wiring
TRADES FOR DEMONSTRATION and EXPOSURE:
1. Power tools in construction, wood working, electrical engineering and mechanical
engineering.
2. Machine shop.
3. CNC Lathe
4. 3D Printing
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Workshop Manual by P.Kannaiah and K.L.Narayana; Publisher: Scitech.
40
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5CS51)COMPUTER PROGRAMMING LABORATORY
Course objectives
• Gain a working knowledge of C programming to write modular, efficient and
readable C programs by Identifying the structural elements and layout of C source
code.
• Declare and manipulate single and multi-dimensional arrays of the C data types
and derived data types like structures, unions.
• Use functions from the portable C library and to describe the techniques for
creating program modules using functions and recursive functions.
• Manipulate character strings in C programs. Utilize pointers to efficiently solve
problems
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course student is able to
• Use the fundamental process of problem solving using any programming
environment.
• Design and develop the efficient solution for a given problem using different
basic and derived data types
• Solve the given problem using C language constructs, functions.
• Choose the data type, language construct for a given problem, design and record
the solution using algorithm, flowchart
Week 1
a. Basic Linux commands
b. Simple C programs -to implement basic arithmetic operations – sum, average, product,
smallest, largest of the numbers, difference, quotient and remainder of given numbers etc.
Week 2
Programs on if, else-if, nested if, else if ladder - largest and smallest of given numbers, to
find the grade of a student based on marks, roots of a quadratic equation etc.
Week 3
a. Programs on switch-case – to check the type of a given character, to find the grade of a
student etc.
b. Programs on while and do-while- to find factorial, Fibonacci series, GCD, sin(x), cos(x)
series , to check whether a given number is an Armstrong, Palindrome, Perfect, number
conversion, and Prime number etc.
Week 4
Programs on for loop- sum of n natural numbers, factorial, sin(x), to generate Pascal’s
triangle etc.
Week 5
41
a. Programs on nested loops – check for Fibonacci prime, Pyramids of numbers,
generation of prime numbers in the given range, multiplication table etc.
b. programs using break, go to, continue.
Week 6
a. Programs on 1-D array-finding Minimum and maximum element, Sorting and Searching
etc.
b. Programs on 2-D array – Sum, product and Multiplication of two Matrices etc.
Week 7
a. Programs on Functions-Implementation of user defined functions categories, passing of
arrays to functions etc.
b. Programs on recursion - factorial of a given integer, GCD of two given integers etc.
Week 8
a. Programs on String handling functions-Copying, reverse, substring, concatenation.
b. Programs on structure and unions.
Week 9
Midterm exam
Week 10
Programs using pointers- pointer basic operations
Week 11
Programs on pointers towards structures,
Week 12
Programs on pointers to arrays
Week 13
Programs on pointers to strings
Week 14
Programs on pointers to functions
Week 15
Programs on preprocessor directives
Week 16
Internal Lab Exam
TEXT BOOKS:
1. C programming A Problem-Solving Approach by Behrouz
A.Forouzan,E.V.Prasad,RichardF.Gilberg
2. How To Program:C, Dietel & Dietel, Seventh Edition,PHI
REFERENCES:
1. The C Programming Language by Brian W. Kernighan, Dennis M. Ritchie.
2. Absolute beginner's guide to C, Greg M. Perry, Edition 2,Publisher: Sams Pub.,
1994.
3. Computer Programming and Data Structures by E Balagurusamy, Tata McGraw
Hill.
4. Let Us C Yashavantkanetkar BPB
42
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS25) ENGINEERING PHYSICS AND ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
ENGINEERING PHYSICS LAB
Course Objectives
• To practically learn interaction of light with matter through physical phenomena
like interference, diffraction and dispersion.
• To understand the periodic motion and formation of standing waves and to know
the characteristics of the capacitors and resistors.
• To compare the experimental results with the class room learning.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Demonstrate the optical phenomena with formation of Newton Rings, and
formation of spectra with a grating and a prism.
• Illustrate periodic motion by measuring rigidity modulus of a material and
formation of standing waves by Melde’s apparatus and also discharging of a
capacitor.
• Correlate the experimental results with the class room learning
Any Eight Experiments from the following:
1. Dispersive Power of the material of a Prism using Spectrometer
2. Diffraction Grating (both with Laser and non laser source)
3. Single Slit with laser light
4. Newton Rings
5. Finding thickness of a thin wire or sheet by forming a wedge shaped film
6. Energy gap of a semiconductor material
7. To determine the rigidity modulus of material of a wire
8. Melde’s experiment
9. Sonometer Experiment
10. AC frequency by sonometer method
11. Numerical Aperture and Acceptance angle of an optical fiber cable
12. Attenuation and Bending losses in optical fiber
13. Stewart Gee’s experiment
14. Characteristics of LED/Laser Diode.
15. Photo cell/ Solar Cell
16. RC circuit
43
REFERENCES:
1) Essential Practical Lab Manual in Physics: by
Dr.P.RaghavendraRao,P.Pavankumar and B.Ashok (inhouse document)
2) Engineering Physics Practicals by B.Srinivasa Rao, V.K.V.Krishna and
K.S.Rudramamba, University Science Press, New Delhi
ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
Pre-requisites: Basic knowledge of Volumetric Analysis and Mathematics.
Course Objectives
• Familiarize the preparation of solutions and operation of instruments
• Conduct of experiment, collection and analyzing the data
• Summarizing the data and find the applicability of the experiment to common
society
Course Outcomes
• Understanding the preparation of standard solutions and handling of instruments
• Knowledge of experimentation and recording the data
• Interpretation of results to real world scenario
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
1. Titrimetry: Estimation of hardness of water by EDTA method.
2. Conductometry: Conductometric titration of acid vs base.
3. Colorimetry: Estimation of copper by colorimetric method.
4. pH metry: Determination of pH of sample solutions.
5. Determination of viscosity of sample oil by Redwood Viscometer.
6. Preparations: Soap and Nanoparticles.
TEXT BOOKS:
1.Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by S.K.Bhasin and Sudha Rani;
Publisher: Dhanpat Rai.
2.Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari and Jyotsna
Cherukuri; Publisher: VGS Book Links.
44
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS12) ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS AND LAPLACE TRANSFORMS
Course prerequisites: Differentiation and Integration
Course Objectives:
• Understand the methods of solving first order differential equations and learn
about its applications to basic engineering problems.
• Understand the methods of solving higher order differential equations and learn
about its applications to basic engineering problems.
• Understand the method of series solutions of second order ordinary differential
equations.
• Apply the convolution theorem to evaluate Laplace Transform of the functions.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Solve the problems in first order differential equations.
• Solve the problems in second order differential equations.
• Obtain the series solutions of second order ordinary differential equations.
• Learn Laplace Transform as a tool.
UNIT I
Ordinary Differential Equations of First Order and Their Applications:
Differential equations of first order and first degree - Exact differential equation , Linear and
Bernoulli differential equation , Applications of differential equations of first order and first
degree - Newton’s law of cooling, Law of natural growth and decay, Orthogonal trajectories
and basic circuits(L-R Circuits, R-C Circuits).
UNIT II
Differential Equations of Higher Order and Their Applications:
Differential equations of higher order - homogeneous and non-homogenous type,
differential equations of second order and higher order with constant coefficients with right
ax
ax
hand side term of the type e sin (ax), cos (ax), polynomials in x, e V(x), x V(x)
and method of variation of parameters, applications to spring mass system ,Simple
harmonic motion and L-C-R Circuits.
UNIT III
Differential Equations with Variable Coefficients:
Euler-Cauchy’s 2nd order differential equations, Series solutions of second order Ordinary
Differential Equations, Regular point, Regular singular point, Frobineous Method.
45
UNIT IV
Laplace Transforms:
Existence condition, Laplace transform of Elementary functions, Properties of Laplace
transforms, Laplace transform of special functions (Unit step function, Dirac delta function
and Periodic function).
UNIT V
Inverse Laplace Transforms:
Inverse Laplace transform of functions using partial fractions, Convolution theorem
(statement only). Solving linear differential equations and Integro-differential eqations using
Laplace transform.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – B. S. Grewal,Khanna publishers.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa
Publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher: John
Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher:
Cengage Learning
3. A First Course in Differential Equations by Dennis G. Zill; Publisher: Brooks Cole
publiers
46
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS13) COMPUTATIONAL METHODS
Course Prerequisites: Elementary transformations of matrices, differentiation and
integration.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the numerical methods for non linear systems, evaluating definite
integrals and solving Ordinary Differential Equations.
• Understand various methods of interpolation and application.
• Understand the Echolen form and Normal form of a matrix and its applications in
solving linear system of equations.
• Solving system of linear equations using Jacobi and Gauss-Seidal methods.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply the numerical methods to find a root of algebraic and transcendental
equations.
• Apply the numerical methods to find the solutions of ordinary differential
equations.
• Find the rank using Echelon form, Normal form and compute eigen values.
• Solve linear equations using Jacobi method and Gauss-Seidal method
UNIT I
Solutions of non-linear systems:
Introduction; Mathematical preliminaries; Solution of algebraic and transcendental
equations –bisection method, the method of false position, Fixed point iterative method ,
Newton - Raphson method, and their order of convergence.
UNIT II
Interpolation:
Introduction; Errors in polynomial interpolation; Finite differences; Forward differences;
Backward differences; Central differences; Symbolic relations and separation of symbols;
Differences of a polynomial; Newton’s formulae for interpolation; Central difference
interpolation formulae; Gauss’s central difference formulae and Lagrange’s interpolation
formulae.
UNIT III
Numerical differentiation and Integration:
Numerical differentiation based on interpolation, Numerical integration: Trapezoidal rule,
Simpson’s 1/3 rule, and Simpson’s 3/8 rule, Gaussian quadrature 2 & 3 point formulae.
Numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations:
Solution of initial value problems by Taylor’s series - Picard’s method of successive
approximations, Euler’s method, and Runge - Kutta methods.
47
UNIT IV
Matrices:
Elementary Transformations, Rank of matrix, Echelon and Normal forms, Consistency of
linear simultaneous equations, Eigen values and eigen vectors and their properties, Caley –
Hamilton theorem (without proof), Quadratic forms - reduction of quadratic form to
canonical form by linear(congruent) and orthogonal transformations.
UNIT V
Complex Matrices and Iterative Methods for Real Systems:
Unitary, Hermitian and skew – Hermitian matrices. Iterative methods for solving a system of
linear equations (Jacobi method, Gauss-Seidal algorithm) and Power method to find largest
and smallest eigen values.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Numerical Methods in Engineering and Science–B.S. Grewal, 3rdedition Publisher:
Khanna
Publishers
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa
Publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher: John Wiley
and Sons.
2. Elementary Numerical Analysis – an algorithmic approach -Samuel D. Conte and Carl
De Boor (2006); 3rd edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill
(Beyond Syllabus: Types of errors and analysis)
48
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5BS24) APPLIED PHYSICS
Course Objectives
• To learn different types of Operators and expectation values in Quantum
Mechanics.
• To study nature of dielectric, magnetic and conducting properties of materials.
• To visualize different kinds of materials in engineering and technology.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Identify different types of Operators and expectation values in Quantum
mechanics.
• Recognize materials’ magnetic, dielectric and conducting behavior.
• Show case some applications of crystals and different kinds of materials in
engineering.
UNIT I
ADVANCED QUANTUM MECHANICS:
Schrodinger equation revisited: Time dependent wave equation, Linearity and
Superposition, Expectation values and Operators (Position, Momentum and Energy
operators), Finite Potential well, Tunnel Effect, Problems.
UNIT II
SEMICONDUCTOR PHYSICS:
Fermi level in Intrinsic and Extrinsic semiconductors, Intrinsic semiconductor and carrier
concentration, Extrinsic semiconductor and carrier concentration, Equation of continuity,
Direct and indirect band gap semiconductors, Hall Effect, Formation of p-n junction, open
circuit p-n junction, Energy diagram of diode, I/V characteristics of p-n junction diode, p-n
diode as a rectifier, Diode equation.
UNIT III
MAGNETIC PROPERTIES OF MATERIALS:
Permeability, Field intensity, magnetic field induction, Magnetization and Magnetic
susceptibility, Origin of magnetic moment, Bohr magneton, Classification of magnetic
materials (Dia, Para and Ferro), Domain theory of ferromagnetism, Hysteresis curve, Soft
and Hard magnetic materials, Ferrites and their applications.
49
UNIT IV
DIELECTRIC PROPERTIES:
Electric dipole, Dipole moment, Dielectric constant, Electronic, Ionic and Orientation
Polarization – Molor Polarization and Experimental determination of Molor Polarization,
Calculation of Polarizibilities, Frequency dependence of Polarization- Internal fields,
Claussius – Mossotti equation, Piezo and Ferro electricity.
UNIT V
SUPERCONDUCTORS:
Experimental survey and superconductivity phenomenon, Meissner effect, Critical fields
and Persistent currents, Type I and Type II superconductors, London equations,
Penetration depth-flux quantization, BCS Theory, Josephson Effect, High temperature
Superconductors, Applications of Superconductors.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Concepts of Modern physics by Arthur Beiser, McGraw Hill Inc.
2. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd
REFERENCES
1. Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
2. Quantum Mechanics by Gupta Kumar Sharma
3. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
4. Engineering Physics by M.R.Srinivasan, New Age Publishers
5. Electronic Devices and circuits by Milliman and Halkias
50
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS11) CODE OF ETHICS
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course objectives:
• Understand core values that shape the ethical behavior of an engineer.
• Awareness towards the professional ethics and human values.
• Identify the global ethical issues.
Course outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Connect to the moral anatomy and infer different ethical theories.
• Identify the social responsibilities as an engineer keeping in view the safety , risk
and rights.
• Exemplify some global issues related to code of ethics.
• Recognize and correlate to sample code of ethics disseminated by different
professional bodies
UNIT-I
Human Values:
Morals, Values and Ethics , Integrity, Work Ethic, Service Learning, Civic Virtue, Respect
for Others, Living Peacefully, caring, Sharing, Honesty, Courage, Valuing Time, Co-
operation, Commitment, Empathy, Self-Confidence, Character, Spirituality-The role of
engineers in modern society, social expectations.
UNIT-II
Engineering Ethics:
Senses of Engineering Ethics, Variety of moral issues, Types of inquiry, Moral dilemmas,
Moral Autonomy, Kohlberg's theory, Gilligan's theory, Consensus and Controversy,
Professions and Professionalism, Professional Ideals and Virtues, Theories about right
action, Self-interest, Customs and Religion, Uses of Ethical Theories.
Computer Ethics:
Internet and free speech, Power Relationships, Property, Privacy, Additional issues.
UNIT-III
Engineering as Social Experimentation:
Engineering as Experimentation, Engineers as responsible Experimenters, Codes of Ethics,
A Balanced Outlook on Law.
Workplace Responsibilities and Rights:
51
Confidentiality and conflicts of interest, Team work and Rights.
UNIT-IV
Safety, Responsibility and Rights: Safety and Risk, Assessment of Safety and Risk, Risk
Benefit Analysis and reducing risk, Govt. Regulator's approach to risks - the three mile
island and Chernobyl case studies &Bhopal - Threat of Nuclear power, depletion of ozone,
greenery effects Collegiality and Loyalty, Respect for Authority, Collective Bargaining,
Confidentiality, Conflicts of Interest, Occupational Crime, Professional Rights, Employee
Rights, Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) - Discrimination
UNIT-V
Global Issues:
Multinational Corporations, Environmental Ethics, Computer Ethics, Weapons
Development, Engineers as Managers, Consulting Engineers, Engineers as Expert
Witnesses and Advisors, Moral Leadership, Sample Code of Ethics ACM, CSI, IEEE,
Institution of Engineers (India), etc.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Mike Martin and Roland Schinzinger, Ethics in Engineering, McGraw Hill. New York
1996.
2. Govindarajan. M, Natarajan. S, Senthilkumar. V.S, Engineering Ethics, Prentice Hall
of India, 2004.
REFERENCES
1. Charles E Harris, Michael S Pritchard and Michael J Rabins, Engineering Ethics
Concepts and Cases, Thompson Learning, United States, 2000
2. John R Boatright, Ethics and the Conduct of Business, Pearson Education, New
Delhi, 2003.
3. Edmund G Seebauer and Robert L Barry, Fundamentals of Ethics for Scientists and
Engineers, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2001.
52
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE –II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5IT02) DATA STRUCTURES
(Common to EEE, ECE, CSE, EIE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• To summarize efficient storage mechanisms of data for an easy access.
• Implementation of various basic and advanced data structures.
• To introduce various techniques for representation of the data in the real world.
• To develop application using data structures.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Identify different file handling functions and understand the basics of different
data structures.
• Classify various linear data structures, its operations and applications
• Illustrate and implement basic non linear data structures.
• Compare and analyze various sorting and searching techniques.
UNIT-I
File Management:
File I/O – Basic concepts, text files and binary files, file input / output operations, file status
functions (error handling), C programming examples, command-line arguments.
Data Structures – Introduction to data structures, abstract data types, dynamic memory
allocation.
UNIT –II
Linear list – Singly linked list implementation, insertion, deletion and searching operations
on linear list, circular linked list implementation, double linked list implementation, insertion,
deletion and searching operations. Applications of linked lists.
UNIT-III
Stacks-Operations, array and linked representations of stacks, stack applications-infix to
postfix conversion, postfix expression evaluation, recursion implementation.
Queues-operations, array and linked representations. Circular queue operations,
dequeuers, applications of queue.
UNIT-IV
Trees – Definitions, binary tree representation, binary search tree, binary tree traversals.
Graphs – Definitions, graph representations, graph traversals.
53
UNIT-V
Searching and Sorting – Big O Notation, Sorting- selection sort, bubble sort, insertion sort,
quick sort, merge sort,
Searching-linear and binary search methods.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. C Programming& Data Structures, B.A.Forouzan and R.F. Gilberg, Third Edition,
Cengage Learning.
2. Data Structures Using C (Paperback) by Aaron M. Tenenbaum
REFERENCES:
1. C& Data structures – P. Padmanabham, Third Edition, B.S. Publications.
2. Data Structures using C – A.M.Tanenbaum, Y.Langsam, and M.J. Augenstein, Pearson
Education
3. C Programming & Data Structures, E. Balagurusamy, TMH.
4. C Programming & Data Structures, P. Dey, M Ghosh R Thereja, Oxford University Press
5. C& Data structures – E V Prasad and N B Venkateswarlu, S. Chand&Co.
54
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE –II Sem L T/P/D C
2 4 4
(5ME19) ENGINEERING DRAWING
(Common to EEE, ECE, CSE, EIE and IT)
Course Prerequisites: Geometrical construction
Course Objectives:
• Understand the Usage of Drawing Instruments & Auto Cad Commands.
• Understand the Construction Method for Drawing Engineering Curves.
• Understand the Concept of Principal of Projections of Lines, Planes and
Solids.
• Understand the Conversion of Isometric to Orthographic Projections and
Vice-Versa.
Learning Outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply Auto Cad Commands to Construct Engineering Curves.
• Draw the Projections of Lines, Planes and Solids with different Positions.
• Construct different positions of Lines, Planes and Solids in Auto Cad
Software.
• Visualize the Objects in the Conversion Process of Isometric Projections to
Orthographic projections and Vice-Versa.
UNIT – I
Introduction to Engineering Drawing; Introduction to AutoCAD; Construction of Ellipse,
Parabola and Hyperbola – General and Special methods; Cycloidal curves.
UNIT – II
Projections of points; Projections of lines and planes – inclined to one plane and inclined to
both the planes.
UNIT – III
Projections of solids: Prism, Pyramid, Cylinder, Cone - axis inclined to one plane and
inclined to both the planes.
UNIT – IV
Isometric projections of lines, planes and simple solids.
55
UNIT – V
Conversion of orthographic views into isometric views and vice-versa.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering Drawing By N.D.Bhatt.
2 Engineering Graphics By K.L. Narayana & P.Kannayya.
REFERENCES
1. Engineering Drawing and Graphics: Venugopal/ New age
2. Engineering Drawing: Johle / TMH
56
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE –II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5IT52) DATA STRUCTURES LABORATORY
(Common to EEE, ECE, CSE, EIE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• To understand storage mechanism and implement related programs
• To develop skills to design and analyze simple linear and nonlinear data
structures
• To Strengthen the ability to identify and apply the suitable data structure for the
given real world problem
• To gain knowledge in practical applications of data structures
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply various file I/O operations for data storage and retrieval.
• Develop programs to demonstrate the ADT for linear and non linear data
structures
• Implement various sorting and searching algorithms.
• Choose and Apply the appropriate data structure to solve a given problem
Week 1: 1. Programs on files-Implementation of file handling functions, file
error handling.
2. Programs on command line arguments.
Week 2:
3. Programs on dynamic memory allocation.
4. Write a program to perform creates, insert, delete and search
operations in Single Linked List.
Week 3: 5. Write a program to perform create, insert , delete and search
operations in Circular Linked List
57
Week 4: 6. Write a program to perform create, insert and deletion
operations in Double Linked List
Week 5: 7. Write a program to implement stack using Arrays
8. Write a program to implement stack using Linked List
Week 6: 9. Write a program to convert infix expression to postfix
expression using stack
10. Write a program to evaluate postfix expression
Week 7: 11. Programs using recursion
12. Write a program to convert infix expression to prefix expression
using stack
Week 8: 13. Write a program to implement Linear queue using Array
14. Write a program to implement Linear queue using Linked List
Week 9: 15. Write a program to implement insertions and deletions in a
Circular Queue.
16. Write a program to implement insertions and deletions in a
Dequeue.
Week Midterm Exam
10:
Week 17. Write a program to implement Linear search, Binary search
11: 18. Write a program to implement Bubble sort, Selection sort
Week 19. Write a program to implement Insertion sort
12: 20. Write a program to implement Merge sort
Week 21. Write a program to implement Quick sort.
13:
Week 22. Implementation of a binary tree representation using Arrays
14: 23. Write a program to implement tree traversals.
Week 24. Implementation of a Graph representation using Adjacency
15: Matrix
25. Write a program to implement graph traversals.
Week Final Internal Lab Exam
16:
58
TEXT BOOKS:
1. C Programming & Data Structures, B.A.Forouzan and R.F. Gilberg, Third Edition,
Cengage Learning.
2. Data Structures Using C (Paperback) by Aaron M. Tenenbaum
REFERENCES:
1. C& Data structures – P. Padmanabham, Third Edition, B.S. Publications.
2. Data Structures using C – A.M.Tanenbaum, Y.Langsam, and M.J. Augenstein,
Pearson Education / PHI
3. C Programming & Data Structures, E. Balagurusamy, TMH.
4. C Programming & Data Structures, P. Dey, M Ghosh R Thereja, Oxford University
Press
5. C& Data structures – E V Prasad and N B Venkateswarlu, S. Chand&Co.
59
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech CSE –II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS02) ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
The English language Communication Skills Lab aims to provide practice in all the four
skills of LSRW, with a special emphasis on listening and speaking skills.
Course Objectives
• Provide ample practice in LSRW skills and train the students in oral presentations,
public speaking, role play and situational dialogue.
• Provide practice in word usage, grammatical construction, structural patterns, and
improve comprehension abilities in the students.
• Train students to use neutral pronunciation through phonetic sounds, symbols,
stress and intonation.
• Enable students to transfer information from verbal to graphic representation and
vice versa.
Course Outcomes
After going through this course the student will be able to
• Comprehend spoken and written discourse.
• Speak fluently with neutral pronunciation and exhibit interpersonal skills.
• Write accurately, coherently and lucidly making appropriate use of words
depending on context and present data clearly.
• Introduce oneself to people and be able to speak extempore.
Syllabus for Lab Sessions
Unit 1
Computer Aided Language Lab:
• Grammar : Nouns and Pronouns; Articles; The Present Tense
• Vocabulary: Lesson 1
• Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: Introduction of Self and others
Unit 2
Computer Aided Language Lab:
1. Grammar: Concord; Adjectives; The Past Tense
2. Vocabulary: Lesson 2
3. Listening Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Seeking and Giving Information, Giving and Taking
Instructions
Unit 3
Computer Aided Language Lab:
Grammar --- Adverbs, Conjunctions, Prepositions; The Future Tense
• Vocabulary: Lesson 3
• Telephoning Skills
60
Communication Skills Lab: Role Play/ Situational Dialogues
Unit 4
Computer Aided Language Lab:
1. Grammar ---- Active and Passive Voice
2.Vocabulary: Lesson 4
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: i) JAM/ Short Talk ii) Information Transfer a) Interpretation
of Graph
Unit 5
Computer Aided Language Lab:
1. Introduction to Technical Writing
A. Definition of a Technical Term
B. Description of a Mechanism
C. Description of a Technical Process
2. Vocabulary: Lesson 5
Communication Skills Lab : Presentation Skills: Oral Presentation
Computer Aided Language Lab Requirements:
The English Language Lab shall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Lab for 30 students with 30 systems, one
master console, LAN facility and English language software for self- study by
learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Lab with conference tables and movable chairs for
30 students and audio-visual aids with a P.A System, a T. V., a digital stereo –
audio & video system and a camcorder
• System Requirement (Hardware component):
Computer network with Lan with 30 multimedia systems with the following
specifications:
• P – IV Processor
• Speed – 2.8 GHZ
• RAM – 512 MB Minimum
• Hard Disk – 80 GB
• Headphones of High quality
iv) Suggested Resources:
Software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above may be procured
and used. Additionally, the abundantly available online resources may also be used.
List of suggested software:
• Tense Busters (5 Levels)
• Walden Educare
• Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
• DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill
Practice.
• Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
• TOEFL & GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO & BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE
by CLIFFS)
61
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS17) PROBABILITY STATISTICS AND QUEUING THEORY
Course prerequisites: permutations and combinations, basic statistics
Course Objectives:
• Understand the elementary ideas in basic probability.
• Understand the different types of probability distribution functions
• Understand the basic concepts in estimation theory and test of hypothesis
• Understand the basic concepts of queuing theory.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Solve problems involving basic probability.
• Apply the knowledge of different probability distributions to Test of Hypothesis.
• Calculate correlation, regression coefficients.
• Apply the knowledge of different probability distributions to solve problems in
queuing theory.
UNIT I
Probability and Distributions
Sample space and events, Probability- The axioms of probability, some elementary
theorems, conditional probability, Baye’s theorem. Random variables - discrete and
continuous. distributions - Binomial, Poisson and Normal distributions–related properties.
UNIT II
Correlation and Regression
Coefficient of correlation, regression coefficient, the lines of regression, rank correlation
UNIT III
Sampling Distributions and Testing of Hypothesis
Sampling distributions, sampling distribution of means (σ known and unknown). Point
estimation, interval estimation.Tests of hypothesis - null hypothesis, alternate hypothesis,
type I, type II errors, critical region. Inferences concerning means and proportions- Large
samples- test of hypothesis for single mean and difference between the means. Test of
hypothesis for the proportions- single and difference between the proportions, confidence
interval for the mean and proportions.
UNIT IV
Tests of significance- Small samples
Tests of significance-t distributions, confidence interval for the t- distribution, F-distributions
and Chi square distributions.
62
UNIT V
Queuing Theory
Queuing theory -Arrival process and service process- Pure birth and death process, M/M/1
model with finite and infinite capacities, M/M/C model with infinite capacity.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Probability and Statistics for Engineers – Richard .A.Johanson, 1995, 5th Edition,
Prentice-Hall.
2. Some problems in the theory of queues. -Kendall, D. G. (1951) Journal of the Royal
Statistical Society, Series B, 13, 151–185..
REFERENCES
1. Applied Statistics for Engineers-Jay.L.Devore, Nicholas. R.Famum, Jimmy.A.Doi, 3rd
Edition, Cengage
2. An Introduction to Probability Theory and Its Applications- Feller, W. (1968– Volume I
and II. 2nd edn. John Wiley Inc., New York, NY.
3. The Single Server Queue -Cohen, J. W. (1969) .Wiley Interscience, New York, NY.
63
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EE22) ELEMENTS OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• To understand the basic concepts of circuit analysis
• To analyze electrical circuits using network theorems and analysis of AC circuits
• To learn principle of operation, construction and characteristics of various electronic
devices.
• To know about different applications of these devices
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
Apply various network reduction techniques for electrical circuit analysis
• Analyze electrical circuits using network theorems
• Use devices in real life applications
• Analyze and Design applications using these devices
UNIT I
Introduction to Electrical Circuits:Circuit Concept – Types of Elements– Types of sources-
R-L-C parameters-Kirchhoff’s laws- network reduction techniques–series, parallel, series
parallel circuits, Source transformation–Mesh and Nodal analysis
UNIT-II
Network Theorems: Star-delta transformation, Super position, Reciprocity, Thevenin’s,
Norton’s, Maximum power transfer theorems-Application of theorems for the analysis of DC
circuits.
UNIT III
AC Circuits: Root mean square, average values, form factor and peak factor of alternating
currents and voltages, Response of R-L, R-C and R-L-C circuits with sinusoidal excitation-
Concept of reactance, impedance, phase and phase difference, Power factor, Real and
reactive powers.
Diodes, Rectifiers and Filters:p-n Junction Diode, symbol, Diode Equation, Volt-Ampere
Characteristics, Half wave Rectifier, Full wave rectifier, Bridge Rectifier, (Simple problems),
Zener Diode, LED, LCD, Photo Diode.
64
UNIT IV:
Bipolar Junction Transistor(BJT)
NPN, PNP transistor Construction and principle of operation, symbol, input and output
characteristics of transistor in Common Base, Common Emitter and Common Collector
Configurations, Relation between alpha, beta and gamma, Transistor as an Amplifier.
UNIT V:
Introduction to Amplifies
Definition of voltage gain, current gain, input resistance and output resistance in amplifies
Concept of feedback, classification of feedback amplifies, General characteristics of
negative feedback amplifies, effect of feedback on amplifies, Introduction to feedback
topologies, Barkhausen criteria, principle of operation of LC and crystal oscillators
TEXT BOOKS
1. Basic Electrical Engineering - By M.S.Naidu and S. Kamakshiah – TMH.
2. Electrical circuits by Sudhkar and Shyam Mohan-TMH
3. Electronic Devices and Circuits – J.Millman, C.C.Halkias, and SatyabrathaJit, Tata
McGraw Hill, 2nd Edition, 2007.
4. Electronic Devices and Circuits – David A Bell, Oxford University Press, 5th edition
(2008)
REFERENCES:
1. Electrical and Electronic Technology – By Hughes- Pearson Education.
2. Electrical engineering fundamentals by Vincent Del Toro
3. Electrical Circuit Theory and Technology – by John Bird, Elsevier Science &
Technology, 2007
4. Integrated Electronics - J.Millman and Christos.C.Halkias, and Satyabratha, Jit
Tata McGraw Hill, 2nd Edition, 2008.
5. Electronic Devices and Circuits – T.F. Bogart Jr., J.S.Beasley and G.Rico, Pearson
Education, 6th Edition, 2004.
6. Electronic Devices and Circuits- S. S Salivahanan, N. Sursh Kumar, A. Vallava
Raju,2ndEdition., TMH, 2010
7. Electronic Devices and Circuits – R.L. Boylestad and Louis Nashelsky,
Pearson/Prentice Hall, 11th Edition, 2006.
65
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5IT03) ADVANCED DATA STRUCTURES THROUGH C++
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Declaration and use of various data types and data structures.
• Understand applicability for the various data structures and the concept of logic
encapsulation.
• To design and code algorithms for solutions and to implement algorithms into
programming code.
• Demonstrate data structure problem solutions, search and retrieval of information.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the concepts of object-oriented programming to solve real world
problems
• Analyze the efficiency of linear and nonlinear data structures
• Solve the given problem by identifying the appropriate data structure
• Classify the searching techniques and analyze the complexities.
UNIT - I
Different strategies for problem solving need for OOP, Overview of OOP Principles-
Encapsulation, Inheritance, and Polymorphism. C++ class overview-class definition,
objects, class members, access control, class scope, constructors and destructors, inline
functions, static class members, this pointer, friend functions, dynamic memory allocation
and de allocation (new and delete).
UNIT - II
Polymorphism and Inheritance: Function overloading, operator overloading, generic
programming-Function and class templates, inheritance basics, base and derived classes,
different types of inheritance, base class access control, virtual base class, function
overriding, run time polymorphism using virtual functions, exception handling mechanism,
abstract classes.
UNIT – III
Performance Analysis: Introduction to Time complexity and space complexity of Algorithms,
Big O, Omega and Theta notations-Only Basic Level, Review of basic data structures.
Implementation of List ADT , Stack ADT , Queue ADT using template classes, Priority
Queue-Definition, ADT, Operations-Insertion, Deletion, Heap-Definition, Max Heap and Min
Heap ,Insertion and deletion, Heap Sort.
66
UNIT - IV
Dictionaries-Definition, ADT, Linear List representation, operations- insertion, deletion and
searching, Hash Table representation, Hash function-Division Method, Collision, Collision
Resolution Techniques-Separate Chaining, open addressing-linear probing, quadratic
probing, double hashing, Rehashing.
UNIT - V
Search trees: Binary search trees, definition, ADT, implementation, operations-searching,
insertion and deletion, Balanced search trees- AVL trees, definition, height of an AVL tree,
representation, operations-insertion, deletion and searching. Search trees B-Trees-B-Tree
of order m, height of a B-Tree, insertion, deletion and searching.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Mastering C++ by K.R.Venugopal , RajKumar and T.Ravishankar , TATA
McGrawHill.(Unit-I,Unit-II)
2. Data structures, Algorithms and Applications in C++,S.Sahni, University press (India)
pvt ltd, 2nd edition, Orient Longman pvt.ltd. (Unit-III,Unit-IV)
3. Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in C++, Mark Allen Weiss, Pearson Education
, Second edition. (Unit-III,Unit-IV,Unit-V)
REFERENCES:
1. Data structures using C and C++, Langsam, Augenstein and Tanenbaum,
PHI/Pearson Education.
2. Problem solving with C++, The OOP, Fourth edition, W.Savitch, Pearson education.
3. Data Structures and Algorithms in C++, Second Edition, Adam Drozdek, Vikas
Publishing House, Thomson International Student Edition.
4. The C++ Programming Language B. Stroustrup, 3rd edition Pearson Education.
67
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5CS02) MATHEMATICAL FOUNDATIONS FOR COMPUTER SCIENCE
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Reason mathematically about basic data types and structures used in computer
algorithms and systems.
• Create elementary proofs.
• Apply different methods for solving recurrence relations.
• Construct various kinds of graphs.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Analyze the theory and techniques of mathematical logic, graphs.
• Illustrate the basic applications of set theory and relations.
• Solve recurrence relation problems using appropriate method.
• Apply the knowledge and skills obtained to investigate and solve discrete
mathematical problems.
UNIT I
Mathematical Logic: Statements and notations, Connectives, Well formed
formulas, Truth Tables, tautology, equivalence implication, Normal forms,
Quantifiers, universal quantifiers. Rules of inference, Consistency, proof of
contradiction, Automatic Theorem Proving, Predicates: Predicative logic, Free &
Bound variables.
UNIT II
Set Theory: notations, inclusion and equality sets, operations on sets, venn
diagrams.
Relations: Properties of binary Relations, equivalence, transitive closure,
compatibility and partial ordering relations, Hasse diagram. Functions: Inverse
Function, Composition of functions, recursive Functions.
UNIT III
Recurrence Relations: Generating Functions, Function of Sequences, Calculating
Coefficients of generating functions, Recurrence relations, Solving recurrence
relation by substitution and Generating functions, the method of Characteristic
roots, solution of Inhomogeneous Recurrence Relations.
UNIT IV
Graph Theory and Applications: Basic Concepts, Isomorphism and Sub graphs,
Multi graphs, and Euler circuits, Hamiltonian graphs, Planer graphs – Different
representation of a planer graph.
68
UNIT V
Trees – Properties of trees – Distance and centers in tree – Rooted and binary trees.
Spanning trees ,BFS,DFS, Spanning trees in a weighted graph ,Chromatic Numbers.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Discrete mathematical structures with applications to computer science
J.P.Trembly,
R.Manohar, Tata M c Graw Hill.
2. Narsingh Deo, “Graph Theory: With Application to Engineering and Computer
Science”, Prentice Hall of India, 2003.
REFERENCES
1. Discrete Mathematics and its Applications, 5th edition, Kenneth.H.Rosen, TMH.
2. Discrete Mathematical Structures Theory and applications, Mallik and Sen,
Cengage.
3. ” Discrete Mathematics for Computer Scientists & Mathematicians,” Second
edition, J.L.Mott, A. Kandel, T.P. Baker, PHI.
4. Logic and Discrete Mathematics, Grass Man and Tremblay,Pearson Education.
5. ” Discrete Mathematics for Computer Scientists & Mathematicians,” Second
edition, J.L.Mott, A. Kandel, T.P. Baker, PHI.
.
69
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS41) BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Course Prerequisites: Basic knowledge of Economics
Course Objectives:
The objective of this course is to:
• To explain different forms of organizing private and public sector business
enterprises and to analyze the significance of Business Economics in solving the
problems of business enterprise. Also to define and analyze the concepts of
Demand, Elasticity of Demand and Demand Forecasting Methods.
• To analyze the various types of costs and to determine the level of output at
which there is neither profit nor loss. To estimate capital requirements and to
describe various sources of mobilizing funds. Also to identify least cost
combinations of inputs produce desired quantity of output.
• To describe the features of different market structure and pricing strategies.
• To explain the basic accounting concepts and conventions. To elaborate the
importance of finance function for evaluating the economic status of a business
unit.
Course outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
Select the suitable form of business organization which meets the requirement of selected
business also perform decision – making function effectively in an uncertain frame work by
applying concepts of Managerial Economics. Meet and manipulate the demand efficiently
and plan the future course of action.
• Apply right kind cost to reduce cost by paying attention towards the costs which
can be reduced. Take decision whether to buy or produce? Reduce the cost of
capital by selecting best source of fund mobilization and select best investment
opportunity which yields higher rate of return.
• Fix the right price which can best meets the predetermined objectives of the
business firm under different market conditions. Able to select best combination of
inputs to produce required quantity of output.
• Prepare books of accounts and know over all financial position of the business
enterprise which enables the concerned to take appropriate measures to improve
the situation. Also interpret the financial position from difference angles and
initiates the measures/ efforts in that direction.
70
UNIT I
Business and new economic environment
Characteristic features of business; Features and evaluation of sole proprietorship;
Partnership; Joint stock company; Public enterprises and their types; Changing business
environment in post- liberalization scenario.
UNIT II
Introduction to business economics, and demand analysis
Definition; Nature and scope of managerial economics - demand analysis determinants;
Law of demand and its exceptions.
Elasticity of demand and demand forecasting
Definition; Types; Measurement and significance of elasticity of demand; Demand
forecasting; Factors governing demand forecasting; Methods of demand forecasting -
survey methods, statistical methods, expert opinion method, test marketing, controlled
experiments, and judgmental approach to demand forecasting.
UNIT III
Cost analysis
Cost concepts - opportunity cost, fixed vs. variable costs, explicit costs vs. implicit costs,
and out of pocket costs vs. imputed costs; Break-even analysis (BEA) - determination of
break-even point (simple problems), managerial significance, and limitations of BEA.
Capital and capital budgeting
Capital and its significance; Types of capital; Estimation of fixed and working capital
requirements; Methods and sources of raising finance.
Nature and scope of capital budgeting; Features of capital budgeting proposals; Methods of
capital budgeting - payback method, accounting rate of return (ARR), and net present value
method (simple problems)
UNIT IV
Theory of production
Production function - isoquants and isocosts, least cost combination of inputs, and laws of
returns; Internal and external economics of scale.
Market structures
Types of competition; Features of perfect competition, monopoly, and monopolistic
competition; Price-output determination in case of perfect competition and monopoly.
Pricing policies and methods
Cost plus pricing; Marginal cost pricing; Sealed bid pricing; Going rate pricing, Limit pricing,
Market skimming pricing, Penetration pricing, Two-part pricing, Block pricing, Bundling
pricing, Peak load pricing, Cross subsidization.
UNI T V
Introduction to financial accounting
Double-entry book keeping; Journal; Ledger; Trial balance; Final accounts - trading
account, profit and loss account, and balance sheet with simple adjustments.
Financial analysis through ratios
71
Computation; Analysis and interpretation of liquidity ratios - current ratio, and quick ratio;
Activity ratios - inventory turnover ratio, and debtor turnover ratio; Capital structure ratios –
debt-equity ratio, and interest coverage ratio; Profitability ratios - gross profit ratio, net profit
ratio, operating ratio, P/E ratio, and EPs.
TEXT BOOK
1. Managerial Economics and Financial Analysis byAryasri, 2009; Publisher: Tata
McGraw Hill.
2. Managerial Economics byVarshney&Maheswari, 2009; Publisher: Sultan Chand.
REFERENCES
1. Financial Accounting for Management: An analytical perspective byAmbrish Gupta,
2010; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Managerial Economics by H. Craig Peterson & W. Cris Lewis; Publisher: Prentice Hall
of India.
72
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS03) DIGITAL LOGIC DESIGN
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Analyze and explore uses of logic functions for building digital logic circuits
• Explore the Combinational logic circuits.
• Examine the operation of sequential (synchronous and asynchronous) circuits.
• Understand the programming concepts of HDL for simulating any type of logic
circuits.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply fundamental concepts in designing digital logic circuits which includes
• data representation, Boolean Algebra, simplification techniques, gate level
logic implementations, HDLs.
• Relate combinational logic circuits and develop hardware designs using HDL
• Design sequential logic circuits and modelling using HDL
• Develop asynchronous sequential circuits using memory elements.
UNIT-I
NUMBERS SYSTEMS AND CODES
Review of number systems- number base conversion-binary arithmetic- binary
weighted and non-weighted codes – Complements-Signed binary numbers-Error
Detection and Correcting Codes-Binary Logic.
UNIT-II
BOOLEAN ALGEBRA and GATE LEVEL MINIMIZATION
Postulates and theorems- representation of switching functions-SOP and POS forms –
Canonical forms-digital logic gates –Karnaugh Maps –minimization using three
variable, four variable and five variable K-Maps, Don’t Care Conditions- NAND and
NOR implementation , Other Two-Level Implementation –Exclusive –OR function -
Integrated Circuits-Hardware Description Language(HDL)
UNIT-III
DESIGN OF COMBINATIONAL CIRCUITS
Tabular Minimization- Combinational Circuits- Analysis and Design Procedure- Binary
adder and subtractors – Carry Look-ahead adder-Decimal adder-Binary multiplier-
magnitude comparator-BCD adder- Decoders- Encoders-Multiplexers-Random Access
73
Memory-Read Only Memory-Programmable Logic Array-Programmable Array Logic -
HDL for Combinational Circuits
UNIT-IV
DESIGN OF SEQUENTIAL CIRCUITS
Combinational Vs Sequential Circuits – Latches-Flip Flops-RS flip flop, JK flip flop, T
flip flop, D flip flop, Master-Slave Flip flop- Flip Flops excitation functions –Conversion
of one flip flop to another flip flop- Asynchronous Vs Synchronous circuits-Analysis of
clocked sequential circuits-State Table-State Diagram-State Reduction and State
Assignment-Mealy and Moore Machines-capabilities and limitations of Finite State
Machine-State equivalence and machine minimization-Design of synchronous
counters- Ripple Counters-Asynchronous counters-Registers-Shift Registers- HDL for
Sequential circuits.
UNIT-V
ASYNCHRONOUS SEQUENTIAL LOGIC
Introduction-Analysis Procedure, Circuits with Latches, Design Procedure-Reduction of
state and flow Tables – Race Free State Assignment Hazards, Design examples.
TEXT BOOKS: :
1. DIGITAL DESIGN , Third Edition , M.Morris Mano, Pearson Education/PHI.
2. Switching and Finite Automata Theory by Zvi. Kohavi, Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. FUNDAMENTALS OF LOGIC DESIGN, Roth, 5th Edition,Thomson
2. Switching and Logic Design, C.V.S. Rao, Pearson Education
3. Digital Principles and Design Donald D.Givone, Tata McGraw Hill, Edition.
4. Fundamentals of Digital Logic & Micro Computer Design , 5TH Edition, M.
Rafiquzzaman John Wiley
74
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EE62)ELEMENTS OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS LABORATORY
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• To understand the basic concepts of circuit analysis
• To analyze electrical circuits using network theorems and analysis of AC circuits
• To learn principle of operation, construction and characteristics of various electronic
devices.
• To know about different applications of these devices
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• apply basic network theorems for solving electrical networks.
• Analyze various Electrical networks using Kirchhoff’s laws.
• use the electronic devices in real time applications
• Calculate h-parameters of BJT under various configurations.
PART A:
1. Verification of KVL and KCL
2. Verification of Superposition theorem
3. Verification of Reciprocity theorem
4. Verification of Thevenin’s theorem
5. Verification of Norton’s theorem
6. Verification of Maximum Power Transfer Theorem
PART B:
1. Forward and Reverse Bias V-I characteristics of PN junction Diode.
2. Zener diode V-I characteristics
3. Half Wave and Full Wave rectifier without filters.
4. Characteristics of a BJT under CE configuration.
5. Characteristics of a BJT under CB configuration
6. Frequency response of CE Amplifier.
Note: Any 10 of the above experiments 5 from each part to be conducted
75
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5IT53) ADVANCED DATA STRUCTURES THROUGH C++ LABORATORY
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Declaration and use of various data types.
• Understand applicability for the various data structures.
• To analyze solutions for storage management computing problems.
• Demonstrate data structure problem solutions.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Develop C++ programs for simple applications that make use of classes and
objects .
• Solve programs using Polymorphism, inheritance, templates and exceptional
handling.
• Implement linear and non-linear data structures .
• Execute problems on dictionaries and searching techniques.
Week-1, 2, 3
C++Programs - covering- Unit-I concepts
Week-4, 5, 6:
Advanced C++ Programs – Covering – Unit-II concepts
Week 7, 8:
C++ programs to implement the following using an array and Linked List
a) Stack ADT b) Queue ADT
Week 9:
C++ Programs to implement Priority Queue and its operations using heap, Heap Sort
Week 10:
Lab Internal Examination-I
Week 11:
C++ Programs to implement dictionaries and its operations using.
a) Linear List b) Hash Table using Division Method.
Week 12:
Collision Resolution Techniques- Separate Chaining, Linear Probing , quadratic Probing
Week 13:
C++ Programs to implement – double Hashing and Rehashing.
76
Week 14:
Write a C++ program to perform the following operations on Binary Search Tree (BST)
a) Creation b) Search c) Deletion d) Insert e) Display – Pre, Post
and In order
Week 15:
Write a C++ program to perform the following operations on B-Tree of order m
a) Creation b) Insert c) Display
Week 16:
Lab Internal Examination - II
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Mastering C++ by K.R.Venugopal , RajKumar and T.Ravishankar , TATA McGrawHill.
2. Data structures, Algorithms and Applications in C++,S.Sahni, University press (India)
pvt ltd, 2nd edition, Orient Longman pvt.ltd.
3. Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in C++, Mark Allen Weiss, Pearson Education,
Second Edtion.
77
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE-II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5CS04) FORMAL LANGUAGES AND AUTOMATA THEORY
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives
• Explain the theoretical foundations of computer science concerning– the
relationships between languages and machines, the inherent limits of what can be
computed, and the inherent efficiency of solving problems.
• Identify a language’s location in the Chomsky hierarchy (regular sets, context-free,
context-sensitive, and recursively enumerable languages).
• Convert among equivalently powerful notations for a language, including among
DFAs, NFAs, and regular expressions, and between PDAs and CFGs.
• Build the foundation for students to pursue research in the areas of automata
theory, formal languages, and computational power of machines.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• List computational devices according to their computational power, and tools which
will allow us to tell if a device is powerful enough to solve a given computational
problem.
• Relate the concepts of grammar with the concept of programming language.
• Design Solutions for problems related to Finite Automata, RE, CFG, PDA and
Turing Machine.
• Analyze various problems and categorize them into P, NP, NP-Complete and NP-
Hard problems.
UNIT-I
Fundamentals: strings, Alphabet, Language, Operations, Chomsky hierarchy of
languages, Finite state machine Definitions, finite automation model, acceptance
of strings and languages, DFA and NFA, transition diagrams and language
recognizers. NFA with ε transitions –Equivalence between NFA with and without ε
transitions, NFA to DFA conversion, minimization FSM, equivalence between two
FSM’s, Output machines- Moore and Mealy machine.
UNIT –II
Regular Languages : Regular Sets , Regular Expressions , identity Rules,
Constructing Finite automata for a given regular expressions, Conversion of Finite
automata to regular expressions, Pumping lemma of regular sets , closure
properties of regular sets (proofs not required). Regular Grammars – right linear
and left linear grammars, equivalence between regular grammar and FA,
78
UNIT –III
Context Free Grammar, derivation trees, sentential forms, right most and left most
derivations of strings. Ambiguity in Context free Grammars. Minimization of
Context free grammars, CNF, GNF, Pumping Lemma for Context Free
Languages. Enumeration of properties of CFL (proofs omitted).
Push Down Automata- definition, model, acceptance of CFL, Acceptance by final
state and acceptance by empty state and its equivalence, Equivalence of CFL
and PDA (proofs not required), Introduction to DCFL and DPDA.
UNIT –IV
Turing Machine: Definition, model, Design of TM, computable functions,
recursively enumerable languages. Church’s hypothesis, counter machine, types
of Turing Machines (proofs not required)
UNIT –V
Computability Theory: Linear Bounded Automata and context sensitive
languages, LR (0) grammar, decidability of problems, Universal TM, Un decidable
problems about Turing Machine – Post’s Correspondence Problem - The classes
P and NP.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. “Introduction to Automata Theory, Languages and Computations”, H.E.Hopcroft,
And J.D Ullman, Second Edition, Pearson Education, 2003.
2. “Theory of Computer Science- Automata Languages and computation”, Mishra and
Chandra Shekaran, Second Edition PHI.
REFERENCES:
1. “Elements of The theory of Computation”, H.R.Lewis and C.H.Papadimitriou,
Second Edition, Pearson Education/PHI, 2003
2. “Introduction to Languages and the Theory of Computation”, J.Martin, Third
Edition, TMH, 2003.
3. “Introduction of the Theory and Computation”, Micheal Sipser, Thomson
Brokecole, 1997.
4. “Formal languages and Automata Theory”, K.V.N.Sunitha & N.Kalyani TMH,2010.
79
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE-II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS05) DATA BASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Introduction of Data Base Management concepts and to give the description of
structure of Data Base systems.
• Understand concepts of ER model and model the data base for the given scenarios
and prepare the database through normalization.
• Know the features of various models of data and query representations.
• Introduce the concepts and protocols related to transaction management and
understand the concepts of data storage
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the fundamentals of relational systems including data models,
database architectures, and database manipulations.
• Formulate queries using relational algebra, Relational Calculus and SQL
• Develop database schema for a given scenario using normalization techniques.
• Summarize the concepts of transaction processing, concurrency control, recovery
and data storage techniques
UNIT-I
Introduction to Databases and Database Management System - Database system
Applications - Advantages of DBMS over File System - Data Models – Instances
and schema - View of Data - Database Languages -DDL-DML - Database Users
and Administrator - Database System Structure.
UNIT-II
Database Design and ER diagrams – Attributes and Entity Sets – Relationships
and Relationship Sets – Constraints - Keys - Design Issues - Entity-Relationship
Diagram- Weak Entity Sets - Extended E-R Features- Database Design with ER
model - Database Design for Banking Enterprise
UNIT – III
Introduction to the Relational Model – Structure of RDBMS - Integrity Constraints
over Relations – Enforcing Integrity Constraints – Querying Relational Data -
Relational Algebra and Calculus.
Introduction to SQL- Data Definition commands, Data Manipulation Commands,
Basic Structure, Set operations Aggregate Operations - Join operations - Sub
queries and correlated queries, SQL functions , views ,Triggers, Embedded SQL.
80
UNIT – IV
Functional Dependencies– Introduction , Basic Definitions, Trivial and Non trivial
dependencies, closure of a set of dependencies, closure of attributes, irreducible
set of dependencies- Schema Refinement in Database Design- Problems Caused
by Redundancy – Decompositions – Problem Related to Decomposition –-
Lossless Join Decomposition – Dependency Preserving Decomposition - FIRST,
SECOND, THIRD Normal Forms – BCNF –– Multivalued Dependencies – Fourth
Normal Form.
UNIT-V
Transaction concept- Transaction state- Implementation of atomicity and
Durability- Concurrent executions – Serializability, Recoverability.Lock Based
Protocols, Timestamp Based Protocols, Validation Based Protocols, Multiple
Granularity, Dead Lock Handling – Failure Classification – Storage Structure -
Recovery and Atomicity- Log Based recovery – Recovery with concurrent
transactions – Checkpoints.
File Organization – Organization of records in file - Data Dictionary Storage –
Indexing and Hashing – Basic Concepts , Ordered Indices,B+Tree Index files, B-
tree index files – Static Hashing – Dynamic Hashing – Comparison of Indexing
with Hashing.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Database System Concepts, Silberschatz, Korth, Sudarshan,Seventh Edition,
McGraw hill (1, 2, 3 & 5 Units).
2. Introduction to Database Systems, C.J.Date, Pearson Education (4th Unit)
REFERENCES:
1. Database Management Systems, Raghu ramakrishnan, Johannes Gehrke,
TATA Mc Graw Hill.
2. Fundamentals of Database Systems, Elmasri Navrate Pearson Education Data
base Systems design, Implementation, and Management, Peter Rob & Carlos
Coronel 7th Edition.
3. Fundamentals of Database Systems, Elmasri Navrate Pearson Education
81
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE-II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5IT04) COMPUTER ORGANIZATION
(Common to ECE, CSE, EIE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• To understand the basic structure and operation of a digital computer.
• To analyse the operations of the arithmetic unit including the algorithms &
implementation of fixed-point and floating-point addition, subtraction, multiplication
& division.
• To learn the different ways of communicating with I/O devices and standard I/O
interfaces.
• To analyse the hierarchical memory system including cache memories,
secondary memory and virtual memory.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Interpret the functional architecture of computing systems
• Explain memory unit, control unit and I/O unit functionalities.
• Make use of fixed- and floating-point algorithms and analyze micro programming
instructions
• Analyze instruction level parallelism and Concepts of advanced pipeline
techniques
UNIT- I
BASIC STRUCTURE OF COMPUTERS: Introduction, Computer Evolution and
performance, System Buses, bus Structures, Improvements in Chip Organization and
Architecture,The evolution of the INTEL x86 architecture, Embedded system and the arm
processor.
Register Transfer Language and Micro operations: Register Transfer language,
Register Transfer, Arithmetic Micro operations, Logic Micro operations, Shift Micro
operations, and Arithmetic logic shift unit.
UNIT- II
BASIC COMPUTER ORGANIZATION AND DESIGN: Instruction Codes, Computer
Registers, computer instructions – instruction Cycle, memory reference instructions, input-
output and interrupt. Central Processing Unit: Stack organization, instruction formats,
addressing modes, data transfer and manipulation, program control, CISC and RISC.
82
UNIT- III
THE MEMORY ORGANIZATION: The Computer System: Characteristics of Computer
Memory Systems, The Memory Hierarchy Semiconductor Main Memory, SRAM and
DRAM, External Memory, performance considerations, RAID, virtual memory, secondary
storage.
MICROPROGRAMMED CONTROL: Control memory, address sequencing, micro program
example, and design of control unit, hardwired control, and micro programmed control.
UNIT- IV
COMPUTER ARITHMETIC: Addition and subtraction, multiplication algorithms, Division
algorithms, floating-point arithmetic operations, Decimal arithmetic unit, Decimal arithmetic
operations.
INPUT-OUTPUT ORGANIZATION: Peripheral devices, input-output interface,
asynchronous data transfer, modes of transfer, priority interrupt, direct memory access.
UNIT- V
PIPELINE AND VECTOR PROCESSING: Parallel Processing, Pipelining, Arithmetic
Pipeline, Instruction pipe line, RISC pipeline Vector Processing, Array Processors.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Computer Organization and Architecture – William Stallings Sixth edition,
Pearson/PHI
2. Computer System Architecture – M. Morris Mano, III edition, Pearson/PHI
REFERENCES:
1. Fundamentals of Computer Organization and Design, SivaramaDandamudi
2. Computer organization – Carl Hamacher, ZvonksVranesic, Safeazaky, V edition,
McGraw Hill
3. Computer Architecture a Quantitative approach, John L. Hennessy and David A
Patterson, Fourth edition Elsevier.
4. Computer Architecture Fundamentals and Principles of Computer Design, Joseph
D/ Dumas II, BS Publication
83
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE-II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS06) DESIGN AND ANALYSIS OF ALGORITHMS
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Design and analysis of algorithms is a basis of computer science. The objective of
this course is to cover key techniques for designing and analyzing algorithms. The
topics include (but not limited to) (1) divide and conquer, (2) dynamic programming,
(3) greedy algorithms, (4) backtracking, (5) branch and bound, (6) time and space
complexity analysis, , and (7) theory of NP.
• Learning classic algorithms
• Devise correct and efficient algorithms for solving a given problem
• Validate/Verify correctness of an algorithm.
Course outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Analyze asymptotic performance of algorithms.
• Explain algorithmic design paradigms like Divide-and-Conquer, Dynamic
programming, Greedy, Backtracking, Branch and Bound.
• Apply disjoint operations on graph applications.
• Classify class P,NP, NP-hard and NP-complete problems.
UNIT I: Introduction
Algorithm, Psuedo code for expressing algorithms, Performance Analysis-Space
complexity, Time complexity, Asymptotic Notation- Big oh notation, Omega
notation, Theta notation.
Disjoint Sets- disjoint set operations, union and find algorithms, spanning trees,
connected components and biconnected components.
UNIT II: Divide and conquer
General method , applications-Binary search, Quick sort, Merge sort, Strassen’s
matrix multiplication.
Greedy method: General method, applications-Job sequencing with dead lines,
0/1 knapsack problem, Minimum cost spanning trees, Single source shortest path
problem, Huffman Codes.
84
UNIT III: Dynamic Programming
General method, Principle of optimality, applications-Multistage graphs, Matrix
chain multiplication, Optimal binary search trees, 0/1 knapsack problem, All pairs
shortest path problem, Travelling sales person problem, Reliability design.
UNIT IV: Backtracking
General method, applications- Recursive Permutation Generator ,N-queen
problem, sum of subsets problem, Graph coloring, Hamiltonian cycles.
UNIT V: Branch and Bound
General method, applications - Travelling sales person problem,0/1 knapsack
problem- LC Branch and Bound solution, FIFO Branch and Bound solution. NP-
Hard and NP-Complete problems: Basic concepts, non deterministic algorithms,
NP - Hard and NP Complete classes, Cook’s theorem.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Fundamentals of Computer Algorithms, Ellis Horowitz, Satraj Sahni and
Rajasekharam, Galgotia publications pvt. Ltd.
2. Introduction to Algorithms, second edition, T.H.Cormen, C.E.Leiserso
R.L.Rivest,and C.Stein, PHI Pvt. Ltd./ Pearson Education
REFERENCES:
1. Algorithm Design: Foundations, Analysis and Internet examples M.T.Goodrich
and R.Tomassia,John wiley and sons.
2. Introduction to Design and Analysis of Algorithms A strategic approach
R.C.T.Lee, S.S.Tseng, R.C.Chang and T.Tsai, Mc Graw Hill.
3. Data structures and Algorithm Analysis in C++, Allen Weiss, Second edition,
Pearson education.
4. Design and Analysis of algorithms, Aho, Ullman and Hopcroft, Pearson education.
5. Algorithms Richard Johnson baugh and Marcus Schaefer, Pearson Education
85
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE- II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS07) SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Identifying and analyzing Life cycle phases
• Prepare both the functional and non functional Requirements for a small
software project
• Understand process of Requirements Engineering & Design engineering.
• Demonstrate an ability to apply different testing techniques.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Analyze software engineering framework activities and process models that can be
tailored with appropriate methods for developing the projects
• Understand the Requirements Engineering Process, Design relevant software
system models and validate desired user model with realistic constraints.
• Develop quality software products by applying software testing strategies and
product metrics over the entire system life cycle
• Define contemporary issues of handling risk management in Software development
UNIT I: Introduction to Software Engineering:
Changing nature of Software, Software Myths. A Generic View of Process:-
Software engineering-A layered technology, The Capability Maturity Model
Integration (CMMI)
Process Models:-The water fall model, Incremental process models, evolutionary
process models, the unified process.
UNIT II: Software Requirements:
Functional and nonfunctional requirements, User requirements, System
requirements, Interface specification, the software requirements document.
Requirements Engineering Process:
Feasibility studies, requirements elicitation and analysis, requirements validation,
requirements management
UNIT III
System models: context models, behavior models, data models, object models,
structured methods Design engineering: design process and design quality,
design concepts the design model Creating an architectural design: software
architecture, data design, architectural styles and patterns, architectural design
UNIT IV
Test Strategies: A strategic approach to software testing Black box and White
box Testing, Validation Testing, System Testing, Product Metrics , Software
Quality, Metrics for analysis model, Metrics for design model, Metrics for source
86
code, Metrics for testing, Metrics for maintenance Metrics for process and
products. Software measurement, Metrics for software quality
UNIT V
Risk Management Reactive vs proactive risk strategies, Software risks, Risk
identification, Risk projection Risk refinement, RMMM, RMMM plan Quality
Management, Quality concepts, Software quality assurance, Software reviews,
Formal technical reviews, Statistical Software Quality Assurance, Software
reliability, ISO 9000 Quality standards
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Roger S.Pressman, Software engineering- A practitioner’s Approach, McGraw-Hill
International Edition, 5th edition, 2001.
2. Ian Sommerville, Software engineering, Pearson education Asia, 6th edition,
2000.
REFERENCES:
1. Pankaj Jalote- An Integrated Approach to Software Engineering,Springer Verlag,
1997.
2. James F Peters and Witold Pedryez, “Software Engineering – An Engineering
Approach”, John Wiley and Sons, New Delhi, 2000.
3. Ali Behforooz and Frederick J Hudson, “Software Engineering \ Fundamentals”,
Oxford
University Press, New Delhi, 1996.
87
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE- II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS15) JAVA PROGRAMMING
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Understand fundamental concepts and constructs of Java
• Implement Different object-oriented Concepts in Java.
• Develop the concepts of Multi-Threading and IO-Streams
• Construct GUI models.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Solve different mathematical problems using OOP Paradigm
• Implement various error handling techniques in developing Applications.
• Design and analyze the solutions for Thread and I/O management Concepts.
• Develop Applications using Applet Programming and Event Handling Techniques.
UNIT-I Fundamentals of Object Oriented programming:
Object oriented paradigm - Basic concepts of Object Oriented Programming -
Benefits of OOP - Applications of OOP
Java Evolution: Java Features - How Java differs from C and C++ - Java and
Internet - Java and World Wide Web - Web Browsers - Hardware and Software
Requirements - Java Environment. Overview of Java Language: Simple Java
Program - Java Program Structure - Java Tokens- Java Statements -
Implementing a Java Program - Java Virtual Machine - Constants - Variables -
Data types - Scope of Variables-Symbolic Constants-Type Casting and type
promotions – Operators, Operator Precedence and Associativity - Control
Statements – break - continue- Arrays-Multi dimensional arrays, Wrapper Classes
- Simple examples.
UNIT-II Classes:
Classes and Objects - Constructors – methods - this keyword – garbage
collection- finalize - Overloading methods and constructors - Access Control-
Static members – nested and inner classes – command line arguments - variable
length arguments.
Inheritance: Forms of inheritance – specialization, specification, construction,
extension, limitation, combination, benefits and costs of inheritance. Super uses-
final - polymorphism, method overriding - dynamic method dispatch –abstract
classes – exploring String class.
88
UNIT-III Packages and Interfaces:
Defining and accessing a package – understanding CLASSPATH – access
protection importing packages – Interfaces - Defining and implementing an
interface, Applying interfaces, Variables in interfaces and extended interfaces.
Exploring java.lang and java.util packages.
Exception Handling-Fundamentals, usage of try, catch, multiple catch clauses,
throw, throws and finally. Java Built in Exceptions and creating own exception
subclasses.
UNIT – IV Multithreaded Programming:
Java Thread life cycle model – Thread creation - Thread Exceptions - Thread
Priority – Synchronization - Messaging - Runnable Interface - Interthread
Communication - Deadlock - Suspending, Resuming and stopping threads.
I/O Streams: File – Streams – Advantages - The stream classes – Byte streams
– Character streams.
UNIT – V Applet Programming:
How Applets differ from Applications - Applet Life Cycle - Creating an Applet -
Running the Applet- Designing a Webpage - Applet Tag - Adding Applet to HTML
file - More about Applet Tag - Passing parameters to Applets - Aligning the
display.
Event handling: basics of event handling, Event classes, Event Listeners,
delegation event model, handling mouse and keyboard events, adapter classes,
AWT Class hierarchy - AWT Controls - Layout Managers and Menus, limitations
of AWT.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. The Complete Reference Java J2SE 5th Edition, Herbert Schildt, TMH Publishing
Company Ltd, NewDelhi.
2. Big Java 2nd Edition, Cay Horstmann, John Wiley and Sons
REFERENCES:
1. Java How to Program, Sixth Edition, H.M.Dietel and P.J.Dietel, Pearson
Education/PHI
2. Core Java 2, Vol 1, Fundamentals, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell, Seventh
Edition, Pearson Education.
3. Core Java 2, Vol 2, Advanced Features, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell,
Seventh Edition, Pearson Education.
89
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE-II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5CS52) DATA BASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS LABORATORY
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Provide a strong formal foundation in database concepts and relational model.
• Familiarize the students with the nuances of database environments towards data-
process oriented framework
• Present SQL and procedural interfaces of SQL comprehensively
• Introduction to systematic database design approaches covering conceptual
design, logical design and an overview of physical design
• Present the concepts and techniques relating to query processing by SQL engines
Course outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Understand the given scenario, design it through ER model and normalize the
schema
• Make use of basics of SQL and construct queries using SQL in database creation
and interaction.
• Apply PL/SQL for processing database
• Develop the solutions using database concepts for real time requirements.
Scenario: (Roadway Travels)
"Roadway Travels" is in business since 1997 with several buses connecting different places in
India. Its main office is located in Hyderabad.
The company wants to computerize its operations in the following areas:
• Reservations and Ticketing
• Cancellations
Reservations & Cancellation:
Reservations are directly handled by booking office. Reservations can be made 30 days in advance
and tickets issued to passenger. One Passenger/person can book many tickets (to his/her
family).Cancellations are also directly handed at the booking office.
In the process of computerization of Roadway Travelsyou have to design and develop a
Database which consists the data of Buses, Passengers, Tickets, and Reservation and
cancellation details. You should also develop query's using SQL to retrieve the data from the
database.
The above process involves many steps like
1. Analyzing the problem and identifying the Entities and Relationships
90
2. E-R Model
3. Relational Model
4. Normalization
5. Creating the database
6. Querying.
Students are supposed to work on these steps week wise and finally create a complete
"Database System" to Roadway Travels. Examples are given at every experiment for
guidance to students.
Experiment 1: E-R Model
Analyze the problem carefully and come up with the entities in it. Identify what data has to be
persisted in the database. This contains the entities, attributes etc.Identify the primary keys for all
the entities. Identify the other keys like candidate keys, partial keys, if any.
Note: The student is required to submit a document by writing the Entities and Keys
to the lab teacher.
Experiment 2: Concept design with E-R Model
Relate the entities appropriately. Apply cardinalities for each relationship. Identify strong
entities and weak entities (if any). Indicate the type of relationships (total / partial). Try to
incorporate generalization, aggregation, specialization etc wherever required.
Note: The student is required to submit a document by drawing the E-R Diagram to the
lab teacher.
Experiment 3: Relational Model
Represent all the entities (Strong, Weak) in tabular fashion. Represent relationships in a tabular
fashion. There are different ways of representing relationships as tables based on the cardinality.
Represent attributes as columns in tables or as tables based on the requirement. Different types of
attributes (Composite, Multi-valued, and Derived) have different way of representation.
Note: The student is required to submit a document by Represent relationships in a tabular
fashion to the lab teacher.
Experiment 4: Normalization
Database normalization is a technique for designing relational database tables to minimize
duplication of information and, in so doing, to safeguard the database against certain types of
logical or structural problems, namely data anomalies. For example, when multiple instances of
a given piece of information occur in a table, the possibility exists that these instances will not be kept
consistent when the data within the table is updated, leading to a loss of data integrity. A table that
is sufficiently normalized is less vulnerable to problems of this kind, because its structure reflects
the basic assumptions for when multiple instances of the same information should be
represented by a single instance only.
Experiment 5: Practicing DDL and DML commands
91
Create all the normalized tables that are identified in Experiment 4.
Insert data into the above tables.
Experiment 6: Querying
In this week you are going to practice queries (along with sub queries) using ANY, ALL, IN,
Exists, NOT EXISTS, UNION, INTERSECT, Constraints etc.
Practice the following Queries:
1. Display unique PNR_no of all passengers.
2. Display all the names of male passengers.
3. Display the ticket numbers and names of all the passengers.
4. Find the ticket numbers of the passengers whose name start with V and ends
with 'h'.
5. Find the names of passengers whose age is between 30 and 45.
6. Display all the passengers names beginning with 'A'
7. Display the sorted list of passengers names.
Experiment 7 Querying (continued...)
You are going to practice queries using Aggregate functions (COUNT, SUM, AVG, and MAX and
MIN), GROUP BY, HAVING and Creation and dropping of Views.
1. Write a Query to display the Information present in the Passenger and
cancellation tables. Hint: Use UNION Operator.
2. Display the number of days in a week on which the 9WO1 bus is available.
3. Find number of tickets booked for each PNR_no using GROUP BY CLAUSE.
Hint: Use GROUP BY on PNR_No.
4. Find the distinct PNR numbers that are present.
5. Find the number of tickets booked by a passenger where the
number of seats is greater than 1. Hint: Use GROUP BY, WHERE and
HAVING CLAUSES.
6. Find the total number of cancelled seats.
7. Display the details of passengers who travelled within the last 3 months.
8. Create a view for the details of passengers who cancelled their tickets.
Experiment 8: Create tables for the following schema.
Student(snum: integer, sname: string, major: string, level: string, age: integer)
Class(name: string, meets at: time, room: string, fid: integer)
Enrolled(snum: integer, cname: string)
Faculty(fid: integer, fname: string, deptid: integer)
Experiment 9: Querying
1. Find the names of all Juniors (Level = JR) who are enrolled in a class taught by I.
Teacher.
92
2. Find the age of the oldest student who is either a History major or is enrolled in a
course taught by I. Teacher.
3. Find the names of all classes that either meet in room R128 or have 5 or more
students enrolled.
4. Find the names of all students who are enrolled in two classes that meet at the
same time.
5. Find the names of faculty members who teach in every room in which some class
is taught.
6. Find the names of faculty members for whom the combined enrollment of the
courses that they teach is less than 5
7. Print the Level and the average age of students for that Level, for each Level.
8. Print the Level and the average age of students for that Level, for all Levels
except JR.
9. Print the Level and the average age of students for that Level, whose average
age is greater than 20.
10. Find the names of students who are enrolled in the maximum number of classes.
11. Find the names of students who are not enrolled in any class.
12. Count the number of junior level students.
13. Display all the students whose names starts with the letter “p”.
14. Display all the teachers whose names contain letter ‘a’ or ‘I’ in their names.
Experiment 10: PL/SQL Programs
1. Program to find sum of first ‘n’ natural no.s
2. Program to find reverse of a number
3. Insert the values of areas of a circle into a table called areas taking radius values
from 2 to 8.
Experiment 11: Cursors
In this week you need to do the following: Declare a cursor that defines a result set.
Open the cursor to establish the result set. Fetch the data into local variables as needed from
the cursor, one row at a time. Close the cursor when done.Practice the following programs
using cursors.
1. Write a cursor program to retrieve the details of all students using cursors ( Use
students table in experiment 9)
2. Write a PL/SQL block to update the level of students from JL to “junior Level” and SL
to “senior Level”and insert a record in newlevel table.
3. Write a cursor program to display the details of Senior Level students .
Experiment 12: Procedures
In this session you are going to learn Creation of stored procedure, Execution of procedure and
modification of procedure. Practice procedures using the above database.
93
Experiment 13: Triggers
In this week you are going to work on Triggers. Creation of insert trigger, delete trigger, update
trigger. Practice triggers using the above database.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to SQL,Rick F.Vander Lans,Pearson education.
2. Oracle PL/SQL, B.Rosenzweig and E.Silvestrova,Pearsoneducation
REFERENCES:
1. Oracle PL/SQL Programming,Steven Feuerstein,SPD.
2. SQL & PL/SQL for Oracle 10g,Black Book, Dr.P.S.Deshpande,Dream Tech.
3. Oracle Database llg PL/SQL Programming,M.Laughlin.TMH.
4. SQL Fundamentals,! J.Patrick,Pearson Education.
94
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year B.Tech CSE- II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5CS53) JAVA PROGRAMMING AND DESIGN AND ANALYSIS OF ALGORITHMS
LABORATORY
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Write the Java Programs related to classes and methods.
• Build Solutions for exceptions and basic I/O streams.
• Develop solid Java programming skills and the ability to design simple case studies.
• Implement the algorithms of different Algorithm Designing Techniques.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, student should be able to:
• Design and Analyze programs to solve real world problems based on object-
oriented principles.
• Implement concurrent programming using Multithreading and Stream concepts
• Implement GUI Applications using Applet Programming, Event Handling
Techniques.
• Develop Efficient Programs for Linear and Non Linear Data Structures with suitable
Algorithm designing.
Week 1:
1. Write a java program to print all the twin primes below 1000. (A twin prime is
a prime number that differs from another prime number by two. (3, 5), (5, 7), (11,
13), (17, 19), (29, 31), (41, 43), .821, 823), etc. .
2. Write a java program to implement matrix multiplication. (Take the input from
keyboard).
3. Write a Java program for sorting a given list of names in ascending order.
Week 2:
4. The Fibonacci sequence is defined by the following rule. The first two values in
the sequence are 1 and 1. Every subsequent value is the run of the two values
preceding it. Write a Java program that uses both recursive and non-recursive
functions to print the nth value in the Fibonacci sequence.
5. Write a Java program that prompts the user for an integer and then prints out all
prime numbers up to that integer.
Week 3:
6. Write a Java program that checks whether a given string is a palindrome or not.
Ex: MALAYALAM is a palindrome.
95
7. Write a Java program that prints all real solutions to the quadratic equation ax2 +
bx + c = 0. Read in a, b, c and use the quadratic formula. If the discriminant b2 -
4ac is negative, display a message stating that there are no real solutions.
8. Write a java program to implement constructor overloading.
Week 4:
9. Write a java program to implement variable length arguments
10. Write a java program to implement the use of inner classes.
Week 5:
11. Write a java program to implement dynamic method dispatch.
12. Write a Java program that illustrates how run time polymorphism is achieved.
Week 6:
13. Write a java program that illustrates the following
a. Handling predefined exceptions b. Handling user defined exceptions
14. Write a java program that illustrates the following
• Creation of simple package.
• Accessing a package.
• Implementing interfaces.
Week 7:
15. Write a Java program for creating multiple threads
a. Using Thread class b. Using Runnable interface
16. Write a Java program for creating multiple threads. The main method sleeps for
10 seconds at the end of which all the threads should be terminated.
Week 8:
17. Write a Java program that correctly implements producer consumer problem
using the concept of inter thread communication.
Week 9:
18. Write a Java program that implements a simple client/server application. The
client sends data to a server. The server receives the data, uses it to produce a
result, and then sends the result back to the client. The client displays the result
on the console. For ex: The client sends a Celsius value, and the result produced
by the server is the Fahrenheit value.
19. Write a Java program that reads on file name from the user then displays
information about whether the file exists, whether the file is readable, whether the
file is writable, the contents of file and the length of the file in bytes.
Week 10:
20. Write a Java program that: (Use classes and objects)
a) Implements stack ADT. b) Converts infix expression into Prefix form.
96
21. Write an applet that displays a simple message.
Week 11:
22. Write a java program for passing parameters to applets
23. Write a Java program that works as a simple calculator. Use a grid layout to
arrange buttons for the Digits and for the + - * % operations. Add a text field to
display the result.
Week 12:
24. Write a Java program for handling mouse and keyboard events.
Week 13:
25. Write a Java program for handling menu events.
Week 14:
26. Find Minimum cost spanning tree using Prims &Kruskals Algorithms.
27. Write a program to find optimal Binary search tree.
Week 15:
28. Implement n-Queens and Hamiltonian Cycle Problem Using BackTracking.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. The Complete Reference Java J2SE 5th Edition, Herbert Schildt, TMH
Publishing Company Ltd, New Delhi.
2. Big Java 2nd Edition, Cay Horstmann, John Wiley and Sons
REFERENCES:
1. Java How to Program, Sixth Edition, H.M.Dietel and P.J.Dietel, Pearson
Education/PHI
2. Core Java 2, Vol 1, Fundamentals, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell,
Seventh Edition, Pearson Education.
3. Core Java 2, Vol 2, Advanced Features, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell,
Seventh Edition, Pearson Education
97
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
II B.Tech IT- II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS04) GENDER SENSITIZATION
(Common to All Branches)
Course Objectives:
• To develop students sensibility with regard to issues of gender in contemporary
India.
• To provide a critical perspective on the socialization of men and women.
• To introduce students to information about some key biological aspects of
genders.
• To expose the students to debates on the politics and economics of work.
• To help students reflect critically on gender violence.
• To expose students to more egalitarian interactions between men and women.
Learning Outcomes:
• Students will have developed a better understanding of important issues related
to gender in contemporary India.
• Students will be sensitized to basic dimensions of the biological, sociological,
psychological and legal aspects of gender. This will be achieved through
discussion of materials derived from research, facts, everyday life, literature and
film.
• Students will attain a finer grasp of how gender discrimination works in our society
and how to counter it.
• Students will acquire insight into the gendered division of labour and its relation to
politics and economics.
• Men and women students and professionals will be better equipped to work and
live together as equals.
• Students will develop a sense of appreciation of women in all walks of life.
• Through providing accounts of students and movements as well as the new laws
that provide protection and relief to women, the textbook will empower students to
understand and respond to gender violence.
UNIT-I
UNDERSTANDING GENDER:
Gender: Why Should We Study It? (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-1)
Socialization: Making Women, Making Men (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-2)
Introduction, Preparing for Womanhood. Growing up Male. First lessons in Caste. Different
Masculinities.
Just Relationships: Being Together as Equals (Towards a world of Equals: Unit-12)
Mary Kom and Onler. Love and Acid just do not Mix. Love Letters, Mothers and Fathers.
Further Reading: Rosa Parks-The Brave Heart.
98
UNIT-II
GENDER AND BIOLOGY:
Missing Women: Sex Selection and Its Consequences (Towards a word of Equals:
Unit-4)
Declining Sex Ratio. Demographic Consequences.
Gender Spectrum: Beyond the Binary (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-10)
Two or Many? Struggles with Discrimination.
Additional Reading: Our Bodies, Our health (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-13)
UNIT-III
GENDER AND LABOUR:
Housework: the Invisible Labour (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-3)
“My Mother doesn’t Work.””Share the Load.”
Women’s Work: Its Politics and Economics (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-7)
Fact and Fiction. Unrecognized and Unaccounted work. Further Reading: Wages and
Conditions of Work.
UNIT-IV
ISSUES OF VOILENCE:
Sexual Harassment: Say No! (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-6)
Sexual Harassment: not Eve-Teasing-Coping with Everyday Harassment-Further Reading:
“Chupulu”.
Domestic Violence: Speaking Out (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-8)
Is Home a Safe Place?-When Women Unite [Film]. Rebuilding Lives. Further Reading: New
Forums for Justice.
Thinking about Sexual Violence (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-11)
Blaming the Victim-“I fought for my Life...”- Further reading: The Caste Face of Violence.
UNIT-V
GENDER AND STUDIES:
Knowledge: Through the Lens of Gender (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-5)
Point of View. Gender and the Structure of Knowledge. Further Reading: Unacknowledged
Women Artists of Telangana.
Whose History? Questions for Historians and Others (Towards a word of Equals:
Unit-9)
Reclaiming a Past. Writing Other Histories. Further Reading. Missing Pages from Modern
Telangana History.
Essential Reading: all the Units in the Textbook, “Towards a word of Equals: A Bilingual
Textbook on Gender” written by A. Suneetha, Uma Bhrugubanda, Duggirala Vasanta,
Rama Malkote, Vasudha Nagaraj, Asma rasheed, Gogu Shyamala, Deepa Sreenivas and
Susie Tharu.
99
Note: Since it is Interdisiplinary Course, Resouse Persons can be drawn from the fields of
English Literature or Sociology or Political Science or any other qualified faculty who has
expertise in this field.
REFERENCES:
1. Sen, Amartya. “More than One Million Women are Missing.” New York Review of
Books 37.20 (20 December 1990). Print. ‘We Were Making History...’ Life Stories
of Women in the Telangana People’s Struggle. New Delhi: Kali for Women, 1989.
2. Tripti Lahiri. “By the Numbers: Where Indian Women Work.” Women’s Studies
Journal (14 November 2012) Available online at : http://blogs.wsj.com/India real
time/2012/11/14/by-the-numbers-where-India-women-work/>
3. K. Satyanarayana and Susie tharu(Ed) Steel Nibs are Sprouting: New Dalit
Writing from South India Dossier 2: Telugu and Kannada
http://harpercollins.co.in/BookDetail.asp?Book Code =3732
4. Vimala . “Vantillu (The Kitchen)”. Women Writing in India: 600 BC to the Present.
Volume II: The 20th Century. Ed. Susie Tharu and K. Lalita. Delhi: Oxford
University Press, 1995. 599-601.
5. Shatrughna, Veena et al. Women’s Work and its Impact on Child Health and
Nutrition, Hyderabad, National Institute of Nutrition, Indian Council of Medical
Research. 1993.
6. Stree Shakti Sanghatana. “ We Were Making History.....’Life Stories of Women in
the Telangana People’s Struggle. New Delhi: Kali for Women, 1989.
7. Menon, Nivedita. Seeing like a Feminist. New Delhi: Zubaan-Penguin Books,
2012.
8. Jayaprabha, A. “Chupulu (Stares)”, Women Writing in India: 600 BC to the
Present. Volume II: The 20th Century. Ed. Susie Tharu and K. Lalita. Delhi:
Oxford University Press, 1995. 596-597.
9. Javeed, Shayan and Anupam Manuhaar. “Women and wage Discrimination in
India: A Critical Analysis.”International Journal of Humanities and Social Science
Invention 2.4 (2013).
10. Gautam , Liela and Gita Ramaswamy. “A ‘conversation’ between a Daughter and
a Mother.”Broadsheet on Contemporary Politics, Special issue on Sexuality and
Harassment: gender Politics on Campus Today. Ed. Madhumeeta Sinha and
Asma rasheed. Hyderabad: Anveshi Research Center for Women’s Studies,
2014.
11. Abdulali Sohaila “I Fought For My Life ...and Won. “Available online at:
http://www.thealternative.in/lifestyle/i-fought-for-my-lifeand-won-sohaila-abdulal/
12. Jeganathan Pradeep, Partha Chatterjee (Ed). “Community, Gender and Violence
Subaltern Studies XI’
Permanent Black and ravi Dayal Publishers, New Delhi, 2000.
13. K. Kapadia. The Violence of Development: the Politics of Identity, Gender and
Social Inequalities in India. London: Zed Books, 2002.
14. S. Benhabib. Situating the Self: Gender, Community, and Postmodernism in
Contemporary Ethics, London: Routledge, 1992.
15. Virginia Woolf. A Room of One’s Own. Oxford: Black Swan. 1992.
100
16. T. Banuri and M. Mahmood, Just Development: Beyond Adjustment with a Human
Face, Karachi: Oxford University Press, 1997
101
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5IT08) OPERATING SYSTEMS
(Common to ECE, CSE, EIE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Analyze the tradeoffs inherent in operating system design.
• Summarize various approaches to solve the problem of process concurrency in an
operating system.
• Evaluate the memory usage trade-offs in terms of size (main memory, auxiliary
memory) and processor speed.
• Understand disk storage strategies and file strategies with protection and security
issues.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Understand System calls and evaluate process scheduling criteria of OS
• Develop procedures for process synchronization and scheduling services of an OS
• Describe the role of paging, segmentation, and virtual memory in operating
systems.
• Distinguish disk access, file systems supported by an OS and extend operating
systems protection& security aspects.
UNIT I
Computer System and Operating System Overview: Overview of Computer System
hardware, Operating System Objectives and functions, Evolution of operating System,
Example Systems. Operating System Services, System Calls, System Programs.
Process Management: Process Description, Process Control Block, Process States
UNIT II
CPU Scheduling: Basic Concepts, Scheduling Criteria, Scheduling Algorithms and
evaluation, Threads Overview, Threading issues.
Concurrency: Cooperating Processes, Inter-process Communication, Principles of
Concurrency, Mutual Exclusion, Software and hardware approaches, Semaphores,
Monitors, Message Passing, Classic problems of synchronization.
UNIT III
102
Principles of deadlock: System Model, Deadlock Characterization, Methods for handling
Deadlocks, Deadlock Prevention, Deadlock avoidance, Deadlock detection, Recovery from
Deadlocks, Dining philosopher’s problem.
UNIT IV
Memory Management: Basic concepts, Swapping, Contiguous memory allocation, Paging,
Segmentation, Virtual memory, Demand paging, Page-replacement algorithms, Thrashing.
Secondary storage structure: Disk structure; Disk scheduling, Disk management, Swap-
space Management, RAID structure, Stable-storage Implementation, Tertiary-Storage
Structure
UNIT V
File Management: File system-File concepts, Access methods, Directory structure, File
system mounting and File sharing and Protection. Implementing file systems-File system
structure and implementation, Directory implementation, Allocation methods, Free-space
management, Efficiency and performance
Protection &Security: Protection mechanisms, OS Security issues, threats, Intruders,
Viruses,
Case studies: windows, Unix, Linux.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Operating System Principles- Abraham Silberchatz, Peter B. Galvin, Greg Gagne
7th Edition, John Wiley.
2. Operating Systems - Internal and Design Principles, Stallings, Fifth Edition-2005,
Pearson education/PHI
REFERENCES:
1. Operating System A Design Approach-Crowley,TMH.
2. Modern Operating Systems, Andrew S Tanenbaum 2nd edition Pearson/PHI.
3. An Introduction to Operating Systems, Concepts and Practice, PHI, 2003 -
Pramod Chandra P. Bhat.
4. Operating Systems – A concept based approach – DM Dhamdhere – 2nd Edition
TMH
103
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS08) OBJECT ORIENTED ANALYSIS AND DESIGN
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Identify the need and process of modeling a software intensive system using the
artifacts Unified Modeling Language
• Understand the CRC (structural) approach for a given case study
• Identify the various behaviors that supports the CRC (structural) approach
• Explore various diagrams with advanced behavioral elements that enables the
deployment of a model for a given case study
Course Outcomes: After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Relate object-oriented concepts representation through artifacts of UML.
• Build classes, their relationships and collaborations (CRC) for given case study.
• Choose the order of activities carried out for each behavior exhibited by the system
• Analyze and design all UML diagrams and their advanced behavioral concepts to
deploy the model for given case study
UNIT-I Introduction to UML: Importance of modeling, principles of modeling, object oriented
modeling, conceptual model of the UML, Architecture, Software Development Life Cycle.
UNIT-II Basic Structural Modeling: Classes, Relationships, Common mechanisms and
diagrams.
Advanced Structural Modeling: Advanced classes, advanced relationships, Interfaces,
Types and Roles, Packages, Common modeling techniques.
UNIT-III
Class and Object Diagrams: Terms, concepts, modeling techniques for class and object
diagrams, Common modeling techniques.
Basic Behavioral Modeling-I: Interactions, Interaction diagrams, Common modeling
techniques
UNIT-IV Basic Behavioral Modeling-II: Use cases, Use case diagrams, Activity diagrams,
Common modeling techniques.
Advanced Behavioral Modeling: Events and signals, state machines, processes and
Threads, time and space, state chart diagrams, Common modeling techniques.
UNIT-V Architectural Modeling: Component, Deployment, Component diagrams,
Deployment diagrams, Common modeling techniques, Case Studies
TEXT BOOKS:
104
1. Grady Booch, James Rumbaugh, Ivar Jacobson: The Unified Modeling Language
User
Guide, Pearson Education.
2. Hans-Erik Eriksson, Magnus Penker, Brian Lyons, David Fado: UML 2 Toolkit,
WILEY-Dreamtech India Pvt. Ltd.
REFERENCES:
1. Meilir Page-Jones: Fundamentals of Object Oriented Design in UML, Pearson Education.
2. Atul Kahate: Object Oriented Analysis & Design, The McGraw-Hill.\
3. Mark Priestley: Practical Object-Oriented Design with UML,TATA McGrawHill
4. Appling UML and Patterns: An introduction to Object – Oriented Analysis and Design and
Unified Process, Craig Larman, Pearson Education.
105
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5IT06) COMPUTER NETWORKS
(Common to ECE, CSE, EIE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Analyze the terminology and concepts of the OSI and TCP-IP reference model.
• Examine various error correction and error detection methods.
• Learn addressing mechanisms efficiently to build a network.
• Understand and predict the Pros and cons of existing protocols and its working
procedures.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Understand modern network architectures from a design and performance
perspective
• Illustrate the various flow and error control techniques and identify the best
method for efficient data transmission and applying various routing algorithms
for a network and determine the optimal path.
• Interpret QoS improving techniques, analysis of various Congestion Control
mechanisms and implementation of TCP and UDP
• Analyze the functions of various Application Layer protocols
UNIT- I
Data Communications: Components – Direction of Data flow – Networks – Components
and Categories – Types of Connections – Topologies –Protocols and Standards – ISO /
OSI model, Example Networks such as ATM, Frame Relay, ISDN
Physical layer: Transmission modes, Multiplexing, Transmission Media, Switching, Circuit
Switched Networks, Datagram Networks, Virtual Circuit Networks.
UNIT- II
Data link layer: Introduction, Framing, and Error – Detection and Correction – Parity – LRC
– CRC Hamming code, Flow and Error Control, Noiseless Channels, Noisy Channels,
HDLC, Point to Point Protocols.
Medium Access sub layer: ALOHA, CSMA/CD, LAN – Ethernet IEEE 802.3, IEEE 802.5 -
IEEE 802.11, Random access, Controlled access, Channelization.
106
UNIT -III
Network layer: Logical Addressing, Internetworking, Tunneling, Address mapping, ICMP,
IGMP, Forwarding, Uni-Cast Routing Protocols, Multicast Routing Protocols.
UNIT- IV
Transport Layer: Process to Process Delivery, UDP and TCP protocols, Data Traffic,
Congestion, Congestion Control, QoS, Integrated Services, Differentiated Services, QoS in
Switched Networks.
UNIT-V
Application Layer: Domain name space, DNS in internet, electronic mail, SMTP, FTP,
WWW, HTTP, SNMP.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Data Communications and Networking – Behrouz A. Forouzan , Fourth Edition
TMH,2006.
2. Computer Networks — Andrew S Tanenbaum, 4th Edition. Pearson
Education/PHI.
REFERENCES
1. Data communications and Computer Networks, P.C .Gupta, PHI.
2. An Engineering Approach to Computer Networks-S.Keshav, 2nd Edition, Pearson
Education.
3. Understanding communications and Networks, 3rd Edition, W.A. Shay, Cengage
Learning.
4. Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach Featuring the Internet. James F.
Kurose&Keith W. Ross,3rd Edition, Pearson Education.
5. “Data and Computer Communication”, William Stallings, Sixth Edition, Pearson
Education, 2000.
107
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5CS09) COMPILER DESIGN
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Illustrating different phases of compilation.
• Describe the steps and algorithms used by language translators and features.
• Enumerating top down and bottom up parsing techniques used in compilation
process.
• Learning the effectiveness of optimization.
• Introducing the syntax directed translation and type checking
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Illustrate the phases of compilation and develop the lexical analyzer
• Make use of parsing techniques in determining the syntactical structure of
programming language constructs
• Translate the programming language constructs into Intermediate representations
• Apply code optimization and code generation techniques on intermediate code in
generating target code.
UNIT–I
Overview of Compilation: Phases of Compilation – Lexical Analysis, Regular Grammar and
regular expression for common programming language features, pass and Phases of
translation, interpretation, bootstrapping, data structures in compilation – LEX lexical
analyzer generator.
UNIT–II
Top down Parsing: Context free grammars, Top down parsing – Backtracking, LL (1),
recursive descent parsing, Predictive parsing, Preprocessing steps required for predictive
parsing.
Bottom up parsing: Shift Reduce parsing, LR and LALR parsing, Error recovery in parsing,
handling ambiguous grammar, YACC – automatic parser generator.
UNIT–III
Syntax Directed Translation: Syntax Directed Definitions, Evaluation orders for SDD’s,
Applications of SDD.
Intermediate Code Generation - variants of syntax tree, Three address codes.
Run-Time Environments: Storage Organization, Stack allocation of Space, Access to
Nonlocal Data on the stack, Heap Management.
108
UNIT–IV
Code optimization: The Principal sources of optimization, Optimization of basic blocks,
Loops in flow graphs, DAG representation of basic blocks, peephole optimization
Introduction to global data flow analysis, Iterative solution of data-flow equations, code
improving transformations.
UNIT–V
Object code generation: Object code forms, machine dependent code optimization, register
allocation and assignment generic code generation algorithms, DAG for register allocation.
TEXTBOOKS
1. Compilers Principles, Techniques & Tools – Second Edition – Alfred V. Aho,
Monica S. Lam, Ravi Sethi and Jeffery D. Ullman- Pearson Addison Wesley
Education.
2. Modern Compiler Implementation in C- Andrew N. Appel, Cambridge University
Press.
REFERENCES:
1. lex&yacc – John R. Levine, Tony Mason, Doug Brown, O’reilly
2. Modern Compiler Design- Dick Grune, Henry E. Bal, Cariel T. H. Jacobs, Wiley
dreamtech.
3. Engineering a Compiler-Cooper & Linda, Elsevier.
4. Compiler Construction, Louden, Thomson.
5. Systems programming and operating systems – D.M Dhamdhere ,2nd edition,tata
McGraw-hill publishing comp pvltd.
109
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech I Sem L T/P/D C
(Open Elective – I) 3 0 3
(5CE71) DISASTER MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Understand the difference between a hazard and disaster
• Know about various disasters and their impacts
• Understand Different approaches of disaster risk reduction
• Understand Disaster risks in India
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Acquire the knowledge disaster Management
• Understand the vulnerability of ecosystem and infrastructure due to a
disaster
• Acquire the knowledge of Disaster Management Phases
• Understand the hazard and vulnerability profile of India
UNIT-1
Introduction to disaster
Concepts and definitions (Disaster, Hazard, Vulnerability, Resilience, Risks)
UNIT-II
Disasters: Classifications, Causes, Impacts (including social, economic, political,
environment, health, psychosocial, etc.)
Differential impacts-in terms of caste, class, gender, age, location, disability Global trends
in disasters. Urban disaster, pandemics, complex emergencies, Climate change
UNIT-III
Approaches to disaster Risk reduction
Disaster cycle-its analysis, phase, Culture of safety, prevention, mitigation and
preparedness, community based DRR, Structural measures, roles and responsibilities of
community. Panchayati Raj Institutions/Urban Local Bodies (PRIs/ULBs), states, center and
other stake-holders.
110
UNIT-IV
Inter-relationship between Disaster and Development
Factors affecting Vulnerabilities, differential impacts, impact of development projects such
as dams, embankments, change in land-use etc. Climate change Adaption. Relevance of
indigenous knowledge, appropriate technology and local resources.
UNIT-V
Disaster Risk Management in India
Hazard and vulnerability profile of IndiaComponents of Disaster relief: Water, food,
sanitation, shelter, health, waste managementInstitutional arrangements (Mitigation,
Response and Preparedness, DM Act Policy, Other related polices, plan, programmes and
legislation)
Project Work :( Field Work, Case Studies):
The project/fieldwork is meant for students to understand vulnerabilities and to work on
reducing disaster risks and to build a culture of safety. Projects must be conceived
creatively based on the geographic location and hazard.
REFERENCES:
1. Alexander David, Introduction in ‘Confronting Catastrophe’, oxford University press,
2000
2. Andharia J. Vulnerability in disaster Discourse, JTCDM, Tata Institute of Social
Sciences working paper no.8, 2008
3. Blaikie, P, Cannon T, Davis I, Wisner B 1997. At Risk Natural Hazards, Peoples’
Vulnerability and Disaster, Rutledge.
4. Coppola P Damon, 2007. Introduction to International Disaster Management.
5. Carter, Nick 1991.Disaster Management: A Disaster Manager’s Handbook. Asian
Development Bank, Manila Philippines.
6. Cuny,F.1983. Development and Disasters, Oxford University Press
7. Govt.of India; Disaster Management Act 2005,Government of India, New Delhi.
111
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective1 3 0 3
(5EE71) RENEWABLE ENERGY TECHNOLGIES
Course Objectives:
• To provide necessary knowledge about the modeling, design and analysis of various PV
systems
• To show that PV is an economically viable, environmentally sustainable alternative to the
world's energy supplies
• To understand the power conditioning of PV and WEC system’s power output
Course Outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Model, analyze and design various photovoltaic systems
• Know the feasibility of various storage systems
• Design efficient stand alone and grid connected PV and WEC power systems
UNIT I
Introduction to photovoltaic (pv) systems:
Historical development of PV systems- Overview of PV usage in the world Photovoltaic
effect-conversion of solar energy into electrical energy.
Solar cells and arrays
Behavior of solar cells-basic structure and characteristics: types - equivalent circuit-
modeling of solar cells including the effects of temperature, irradiation and series/shunt
resistances on the open-circuit voltage and short-circuit currentSolar cell arrays- PV
modules-PV generators- shadow effects and bypass diodes- hot spot problem in a PV
module and safe operating area- Terrestrial PV module modelingInterfacing PV modules
with different loads.
UNIT II
Energy storage alternatives for pv systems
Methods of Energy storage –Pumped Energy Storage – Compressed Energy Storage –
Storage batteries- lead-acid- nickel cadmium-nickel-metal-hydride and lithium type
batteries. Small storage systems employing ultra capacitors- properties- modeling of
batteries.
UNIT-III
Wind Energy Conversion systems (WECS)
112
Basic Principle of WECS, Nature of Wind, Wind survey in india, Components of WECS,
Power Vs Speed, TSR, Maximum Power operation, WECS- Trade off- Control
Requirements, Basic Principle of Induction generator for WECS
UNIT-IV
Converters for PV and Wind
AC-DC Rectifier, DC-AC inverter (Basic operation) Grid interface voltage and frequency
control, Battery charger (Basic operation)
Power conditioning of PV systems
Array Design, Sun Tracking, Single axis-Dual Axis, Maximum Power point Tracking- PO
method- IC method
UNIT-V
Stand Alone systems:
PV Stand Alone, Electric Vehicle, Wind stand Alone, Standalone Hybrid systems- Hybrid
with diesel, Hybrid with Fuel cell- Mode controller- Load sharing, systems sizing, wind farm
sizing- Power and Energy estimates, , Residential systems, PV water pumping, PV
powered lighting-
TEXT BOOKS
1. Patel M. R., “Wind and Solar Power Systems Design, Analysis, and Operation”, CRC
Press, New York, 2nd Edition, 2005
2. Goetzberger, Hoffmann V. U., “Photovoltaic Solar Energy Generation”,
SpringerVerlag,Berlin, 2005.
REFERENCES
1. Komp R.J., “Practical Photovoltaics: Electricity from solar cells”, Aatec
Publications,Michigan, 3rd Edition, 2001.
2. Castaner L., Silvestre S., “Modeling Photovoltaic Systems Using PSpice”, John Wiley &
Sons, England, 2002.
3. Jenny Nelson, “The physics of solar cells”, Imperial College Press, London, 2004.
113
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - 1 3 0 3
(5ME71) DIGITAL FABRICATION
Course Objectives:
• Understand the need of digital fabrication
• Understand about Two dimensional layer by layer techniques
• Know about extrusion based systems, post processing and the software issues
involved in digital fabrication
• Know the applications of digital fabrication
Learning Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the importance of digital fabrication
• Identify different techniques involved in two dimensional layering
• Analyze the software issues involved in digital fabrication and know about
extrusion based systems and post processing
• Apply the knowledge gained in the digital fabrication
UNIT I:
Introduction to Additive Manufacturing: Introduction to AM, AM evolution, Classification of
Additive Manufacturing, Distinction between AM & CNC Machining, Advantages of AM
UNIT II:
Two- Dimensional Layer- by Layer Techniques: Stereolithography (SL), Solid Foil
Polymerization (SFP), Selective Laser Sintering (SLS), Selective Powder Building (SPB),
Ballistic Particle Manufacturing (PM).
UNIT III:
Extrusion Based Systems: Introduction, basic principles, Fused Deposition Modeling,
Materials, Limitations of FDM
Post Processing: Introduction, Support Material Removal, Surface Texture Improvements,
Accuracy Improvements, Aesthetic Improvements.
UNIT IV:
Software Issues for Additive Manufacturing: Introduction, Preparation of CAD Models: The
STL file, Problems with STL files, STL file manipulation, Beyond the STL file, Additional
software to assist AM
114
UNIT V:
AM Applications
Applications in design, Applications in Engineering Analysis and Planning
Medical Applications: Customized Implants and Prosthesis
Aerospace applications and Automotive Applications
Other Applications: Jewelry Industry, Coin Industry, Tableware Industry.
Text Books:
1. Ian Gibson, David W Rosen, Brent Stucker, “Additive Manufacturing
Technologies: Rapid Prototyping to Direct Digital Manufacturing”, Springer 2010.
2. Chuaa Chee Kai, Leong Kah Fai, “Rapid Prototyping: Principles & Applications”,
World Scientific, 2010.
References:
1. Ali K.Karmani, Emand Abouel Nasr, “Rapid Prototyping: Theory and Practice”,
Springer 2006.
2. Andreas Gebhardt, Understanding Additive Manufacture: Rapid Prototyping,
Rapid Tooling and Rapid Manufacture, Hanser Publishers, 2013.
3. Hopkinson, N.Haque, and Dickens Rapid Manufacturing: Advanced Research in
Virtual and Rapid Prototyping, Taylor and Francis, 2007.
115
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech CSE– I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - 1 3 0 3
(5EC71) PRINCIPLES OF COMMUNICATIONS
(Qualitative Analysis only)
Course Objective:
• To make students understand different types of communication.
• To make students understand different modulation technique
• To make students understand basics of wireless communications.
• To make students understand basics of cellular communications.
Course Outcome:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Analyze the techniques used for signal modulation and demodulation.
• Distinguish the need for PPM, PWM, Multiplexing.
• Learn basics of wireless networks.
• Understand the fundamental concepts of Cellular & Mobile communications
UNIT I
Introduction
Block diagram of Electrical communication system, Radio communication, Types of
communications: Analog, pulse and digital.
Analog Modulation
Need for modulation, Types of Analog modulation, Amplitude Modulation, Angle
Modulation: Frequency & Phase modulations. Generation and Demodulation
techniques.Advantages of FM over AM, Bandwidth consideration, Narrow band and Wide
band FM, Comparison of FM & PM.
UNIT II
Pulse Modulations
Sampling, Nyquist rate of sampling, Sampling theorem for Band limited signals, PAM,
regeneration of base band signal, PWM and PPM, Time Divison Multiplexing, Frequency
Divison Multiplexing, Asynchronous Multiplexing.
UNIT III
Digital Communication
Advantages, Block diagram of PCM, Quantization, effect of quantization, quantization
error, Base band digital signal, DM, ADM, ADPCM and comparison. Digital Modulation :
ASK, FSK, PSK, DPSK, QPSK demodulation, offset and non-offset QPSK, coherent and
incoherent reception, Modems.
116
UNIT IV
Introduction to Wireless Networking
Introduction, Difference between wireless and fixed telephone networks, Development of
wireless networks, Traffic routing in wireless networks.
UNIT V
Cellular Mobile Radio Systems
Introduction to Cellular Mobile System, concept of frequency reuse, Performance criteria,
uniqueness of mobile radio environment, operation of cellular systems, Hexagonal shaped
cells, Analog and Digital Cellular systems. Cell splitting.
Handoffs and Dropped Calls
Handoff, dropped calls and cell splitting, types of handoff, handoff initiation, delaying
handoff, forced handoff, mobile assisted handoff, Intersystem handoff, micro cells, vehicle
locating methods, dropped call rates and their evaluation.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Communication Systems Analog and Digital – R.P. Singh and SD Sapre, TMH, 20th
reprint, 2004.
2. Principles of Communications – H. Taub and D. Schilling, TMH, 2003.
3. Wireless Communications, Principles, Practice – Theodore, S. Rappaport, 2nd Ed.,
2002,PHI.
REFERENCES:
1. Electronic Communication Systems – Kennedy and Davis, TMH, 4th edition,
2004.
2. Communication Systems Engineering – John. G. Proakis and Masoud Salehi,
PHI, 2ndEd. 2004.
3. Wireless Communication and Networking – William Stallings, 2003, PHI.
117
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - 1 3 0 3
(5CS71)OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING THROUGH JAVA
Course Objectives:
• Implement Different object-oriented Concepts in Java.
• Develop the concepts of Multi-Threading and IO-Streams
• Construct GUI models.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Solve different mathematical problems using OOP Paradigm
• Choose packages, interfaces, exceptional handling techniques for developing
Applications
• Design and Analyze the solutions for Thread and I/O management Concepts.
• Develop Applications using Applet Programming and Event Handling
Techniques.
UNIT-I Fundamentals of Object Oriented programming:
Object oriented paradigm - Basic concepts of Object Oriented Programming - Benefits of
OOP - Applications of OOP
Java Evolution: Java Features - How Java differs from C and C++ - Java and Internet -
Java and World Wide Web - Web Browsers - Hardware and Software Requirements - Java
Environment. Overview of Java Language: Simple Java Program - Java Program Structure
- Java Tokens- Java Statements - Implementing a Java Program - Java Virtual Machine -
Constants - Variables - Data types - Scope of Variables-Symbolic Constants-Type Casting
and type promotions – Operators, Operator Precedence and Associativity - Control
Statements – break - continue- Arrays-Multi dimensional arrays, Wrapper Classes - Simple
examples.
UNIT-II Classes:
Classes and Objects - Constructors – methods - this keyword – garbage collection- finalize
- Overloading methods and constructors - Access Control- Static members – nested and
inner classes – command line arguments - variable length arguments.
118
Inheritance: Forms of inheritance – specialization, specification, construction, extension,
limitation, combination, benefits and costs of inheritance. Super uses- final - polymorphism,
method overriding - dynamic method dispatch –abstract classes – exploring String class.
UNIT-III Packages and Interfaces:
Defining and accessing a package – understanding CLASSPATH – access protection
importing packages – Interfaces - Defining and implementing an interface, Applying
interfaces, Variables in interfaces and extended interfaces. Exploring java.lang and java.util
packages.
Exception Handling-Fundamentals, usage of try, catch, multiple catch clauses, throw,
throws and finally. Java Built in Exceptions and creating own exception subclasses.
UNIT – IV Multithreaded Programming:
Java Thread life cycle model – Thread creation - Thread Exceptions - Thread Priority –
Synchronization - Messaging - Runnable Interface - Interthread Communication - Deadlock
- Suspending, Resuming and stopping threads.
I/O Streams: File – Streams – Advantages - The stream classes – Byte streams –
Character streams.
UNIT – V Applet Programming:
How Applets differ from Applications - Applet Life Cycle - Creating an Applet - Running the
Applet- Designing a Webpage - Applet Tag - Adding Applet to HTML file - More about
Applet Tag - Passing parameters to Applets - Aligning the display.
Event handling: basics of event handling, Event classes, Event Listeners, delegation
event model, handling mouse and keyboard events, adapter classes, AWT Class hierarchy
- AWT Controls - Layout Managers and Menus, limitations of AWT.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. The Complete Reference Java J2SE 5th Edition, Herbert Schildt, TMH Publishing
Company Ltd, NewDelhi.
2. Big Java 2nd Edition, Cay Horstmann, John Wiley and Sons
REFERENCES:
1. Java How to Program, Sixth Edition, H.M.Dietel and P.J.Dietel, Pearson
Education/PHI
2. Core Java 2, Vol 1, Fundamentals, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell, Seventh
Edition, Pearson Education.
3. Core Java 2, Vol 2, Advanced Features, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell,
Seventh Edition, Pearson Education.
119
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III B.Tech – CSE- I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(5EI71)Principles of Measurements and Instrumentation
Course Objectives:
• To provide basic knowledge in transduction principles, sensors and transducer
technology and measurement systems.
• To provide better familiarity with the concepts of Sensors and Measurements.
• To provide the knowledge of various measurement methods of physical parameters
like velocity, acceleration, force, pressure and viscosity.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Able to identify suitable sensors and transducers for real time applications.
• Able to translate theoretical concepts into working models.
• Able to understand the basic of measuring device and use them in relevant
situation.
UNIT: I
Introduction to measurements. Physical measurement. Forms and methods of
measurements. Measurement errors. Statistical analysis of measurement data. Probability
of errors. Limiting errors.Standards. Definition of standard units. International standards.
Primary standards. Secondary standards. Working standards. Voltage standard.
Resistance standard. Current standard. Capacitance standard. Time and frequency
standards.
Unit: II
Passive Sensors:
Resistive Sensors: Potentiometers, Strain Gages, Resistive Temperature Detectors
(RTDs),Thermistors, Light-dependent Resistors (LDRs), Resistive Hygrometers ,
Capacitive Sensors: Variable capacitor, Differential capacitor, Inductive Sensors:
Reluctance variation sensors, Eddy current sensors
Unit: III
METROLOGY
Measurement of length – Plainness – Area – Diameter – Roughness – Angle –
Comparators – Gauge blocks. Optical Methods for length and distance measurements.
120
VELOCITY AND ACCELERATION MEASUREMENT
Relative velocity – Translational and Rotational velocity measurements – Revolution
counters and Timers - Magnetic and Photoelectric pulse counting stroboscopic methods.
Accelerometers-different types, Gyroscopes-applications.
Unit: IV
Force and Pressure Measurement
Gyroscopic Force Measurement – Vibrating wire Force transducer.
Basics of Pressure measurement –Manometer types – Force-Balance and Vibrating
Cylinder Transducers – High and Low Pressure measurement
Unit: V
FLOW, Density and Viscosity Measurements
Flow Meters- Head type, Area type (Rota meter), electromagnetic type, Positive
displacement type, Density measurements – Strain Gauge load cell method – Buoyancy
method.
Units of Viscosity, Two float viscorator –Industrial consistency meter
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Measurement Systems – Applications and Design – by Doeblin E.O., 4/e, McGraw Hill
International, 1990.
2. Principles of Industrial Instrumentation – Patranabis D. TMH. End edition 1997
REFERENCES:
1. Sensor Technology Hand Book – Jon Wilson, Newne 2004.
2. Instrument Transducers – An Introduction to their Performance and design – by
Herman K.P.Neubrat, Oxford University Press.
3. Measurement system: Applications and Design – by E.O.Doeblin, McGraw Hill
Publications.
4. Electronic Instrumentation by H.S.Kalsi.
121
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective-1 3 0 3
(5IT71)CYBER SECURITY
Course Objectives:
• Identify the key components of cyber security in network
• Describe risk management processes and practices
• Define types of service delivery process and storage management process
• Access additional external resources to supplement knowledge of cyber
forensics and laws
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Categorization of cyber-crime and an understanding social, political, ethical
and psychological dimensions cyber security
• Demonstrate cyber offenses tools, methods used in cyber crime
• Document an appropriate procedure of Risk Management and Security
Standards
• Understanding computer forensics and analyzing them
UNIT-I
INTRODUCTION TO CYBER CRIME: Introduction Cybercrime: Definition and Origins of
the word, Cybercrime and Information Security, Who are Cybercriminals, Classifications
of Cybercrimes, E-mail Spoofing, Spamming, Cyber defamation, Internet Time Theft,
Salami Attack/ Salami Technique, Data Diddling, Forgery, Web Jacking, Newsgroup
Spam/ Crimes Emanating from Usenet Newsgroup, Industrial Spying/Industrial Espionage,
Hacking, Online Frauds, Pornographic Offenses, Software Piracy, Computer Sabotage, E-
Mail Bombing/Mail Bombs, Usernet Newsgroup as the Source of Cybercrimes, Computer
Network Intrusions, Password Sniffing, Credit Card Frauds, Identity Theft, Cybercrime:
The Legal Perspectives, Cybercrimes: An Indian Perspective, Cybercrime and the Indian
ITA 2000, Hacking and the Indian Law(s), A Global Perspective on Cybercrimes,
Cybercrime and the Extended Enterprise.
UNIT-II
CYBER OFFENSES: HOW CRIMINALS PLAN THEM: Introduction, Categories of
Cybercrime, How Criminals Plan the Attacks, Reconnaissance, Passive Attacks, Active
Attacks, Scamming and Scrutinizing Gathered Information, Attack (Gaining and
Maintaining the System Access), Social Engineering, Classification of Social Engineering,
122
Cyber stalking, Types of Stalkers, Cases Reported on Cyber stalking, How Stalking
Works?, Real-Life Incident of Cyber stalking, Cyber cafe and Cybercrimes, Botnets: The
fuel for Cybercrime, Botnet, Attack Vector, Cloud Computing, Why Cloud Computing?,
Types of Services, Cybercrime and Cloud Computing.
UNIT-III
TOOLS AND METHODS USED IN CYBER CRIME: Introduction, Proxy Servers and
Anonymizers, Phishing, How Phishing Works, Password Cracking, Online Attacks, Offline
Attacks, Strong, Weak and Random Passwords, Random Passwords, Keyloggers and
Spywares, Software Keyloggers, Hardware Keyloggers, Antikeylogger, Spywares, Virus
and Worms, Types of Viruses, Trojan Horses and Backdoors, Backdoor, How to Protect
from Trojan and Backdoors, Steganography, Steganalysis, Dos and DDos Attacks, Dos
Attacks, Classification of Dos Attacks, Types of Levels of Dos Attack, Tools Used to
Launch Dos Attacks, DDos Attacks, How to protect from Dos/DDos Attacks, SQL Injection,
Steps for SQL Injection Attack, How to Prevent SQL Injection Attacks.
UNIT-IV
UNDERSTANDING COMPUTER FORENSICS: Introduction, Historical Background of
Cyber forensics, Digital Forensics Science, The Need for Computer Forensics, Cyber
forensics and Digital Evidence, The Rules of Evidence, Forensics Analysis of E-Mail,
RFC2822, Digital Forensics Life Cycle, The Digital Forensics Process, The Phases in
Computer Forensics/Digital Forensics, Precautions to be Taken when Collecting
Electronic Evidence, Chain of Custody Concept, Network Forensics, Approaching a
Computer Forensics Investigation, Typical Elements Addressed in a Forensics
Investigation Engagement Contract , Solving a Computer Forensics Case, Computer
Forensics and Steganography, Rootkits, Information Hiding, Forensics and Social
Networking Sites: The Security/Privacy Threats, Challenges in Computer Forensics,
Technical Challenges: Understanding the Raw Data and its Structure, The Legal
Challenges in Computer Forensics and Data Privacy Issues, Special Tools and
Techniques, Digital Forensics Tools Ready Reckoner, Special Technique: Data Mining
used in Cyber forensics, Forensics Auditing.
UNIT-V
CYBERCRIME AND CYBERTERRORISM: SOCIAL, POLITICAL, ETHICAL and
PSYCHOLOGICAL DIMENSIONS: Introduction, Intellectual Property in the Cyberspace,
Copyright, Patent, Trademarks, Trade Secret, Trade Name, Domain Name, The Ethical
Dimension of Cybercrimes, Ethical Hackers: Good Guys in Bad Land, The Psychology,
Mindset and Skills of Hackers and Other Cybercriminals, Inside the Minds and Shoes of
Hackers and Cybercriminals, Hackers and Cybercriminals: Evolution of Technical prowess
and Skills, Ethical Hackers, Sociology of Cybercriminals, Personality Traits of
123
Cybercriminals and Younger Generation’s views about Hacking, Information Warfare:
Perception or An Eminent Reality?, Cyberwar Ground is HOT, Cyber Jihadist on the Rise.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Cyber Security- Understanding Cyber Crimes, Computer Forensics and Legal
Perspectives by Nina Godbole and Sunit Belpure, Publication Wiley.
REFERENCES:
1. Management of Information Security, M. E. Whitman, H. J. Mattord, Nelson
Education, CENGAGE Learning, 2011, 3rd Edition.
2. Guide to Computer Forensics and Investigations, B. Nelson, A. Phillips, F. Enfinger,
C. Steuart, Nelson Education / CENGAGE Learning, 2010, 4th Edition
124
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.Tech. III Year I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 1 3
(5AE71) PRINCIPLES OF AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
Course objectives:
• Understand the layout of an automobile and functionalities subsystems
• Provide overview on concepts of engine, cooling, lubrication and fuel systems
• Present constructional features and working of automotive driveline and running
systems
• Study the fundamentals and principles of automotive electrical systems
Learning outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Explain the functionalities of automotive systems and subsystems
• Give an overview on engine and engine subsystems.
• Describe working of automotive driveline and running systems
• Discuss the concepts of automotive starting, ignition and charging systems
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION: Classification of automobiles, layout of an automobile, automobile sub
systems and their role. Types of chassis, role and requirement of a chassis frame, types of
frames, materials, loading points and types of bodies.
UNIT II
ENGINE: Classification and components of an engine, principle and working of four stoke
and two stroke SI and CI engines.Carburetor, diesel fuel injection and introduction to
electronic fuel injection system.Cooling - Necessity of cooling, air-cooling and water
cooling. Lubrication – Mist, splash and forced system.
UNIT III
DRIVE LINE: Clutches, principle, single plate clutch, multi plate clutch and centrifugal
clutch. Gear box - Need, sliding mesh, constant mesh and synchromesh gear box.Propeller
shaft, universal joint, differential, wheels and tyres.
UNIT IV
RUNNING SYSTEMS: Suspension systems – Objective, rigid axle and independent
suspension system and torsion bar. Steering system – Layout, steering mechanism,
125
steering geometry and steering gearboxes. Brake system –Principle, stopping distance,
types of brakes and actuation.
UNIT V
ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS: Starting system - Principle, working of different starter drive units
and solenoid switches. Ignition system - Conventional ignition system types, ignition
advance and retarding mechanisms. Charging system - Alternatorprinciple, construction
and working, cut-outs and regulators.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Advanced Vehicle Technology, Heinz Heisler,Butterworth Heinemann Publishers,
2002.
2. Automobile Electrical Equipment,Crouse W H, McGraw Hill Book Co., Inc., New York
3rd edition,1986.
REFERENCES:
1. Motor Vehicle, Garrett T K, Newton K. and Steeds W., Butter Worths & Co. Publishers
Ltd., New Delhi, 2001.
2. Automotive Electrical Equipment, Kholi P L,Tata McGraw Hill Co., Ltd., New Delhi,
1975.
3. Automotive Chassis and Body, Crouse W H, McG raw Hill Book Co., 5th edition, 1976.
4. Automotive Mechanics, Giri N K, Khanna Publications, 2006
126
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective-1 3 0 3
(5BS71) PROFESSIONAL ETHICS AND HUMAN VALUES
Introduction
Human values and ethics have a significant role to play in the betterment of our
society. Ethics and values are a liberating force, enabling higher performance, better
quality relationships and an expanded sense of purpose and identity. This syllabus
aims to present a framework for understanding human values and their role in life,
work, business and leadership. It aims to transform individuals from having self-
focused, survivalist mindset that has scant regard for ethics, through to compliance
with laws and conventions, and then to the aspiration to live a higher ethical and
spiritual life.
It mainly focuses on improving the capacities of leadership /management through
training in human values and professional ethics. It serves to contribute to good
governance in the organizations and foster an environment that supports and
encourages just practices and fairplay.
Course Objectives:
• To create an awareness on Engineering Ethics and Human Values.
• To study the moral issues and decisions confronting individuals and organizations
engaged in engineering profession.
• To study the related issues about the moral ideals, character, policies, and
relationships of people and corporations involved in technological activity.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Learn the moral issues and problems in engineering; find the solution to those
problems.
• Learn the need for professional ethics, codes of ethics and roles, concept of safety,
risk assessment.
• Gain exposure to Environment Ethics & computer ethics; know their responsibilities
and rights
UNIT I
Introduction to Human Values and Ethics Human Values: Morals, Values and
Ethics – Integrity – Work Ethic – ServiceLearning – Civic Virtue – Respect for Others –
127
Living Peacefully – caring – Sharing –Honesty – Courage – Valuing Time – Co-
operation – Commitment – Empathy – Self-Confidence – Character – Spirituality.
Introduction to Ethical Concepts: Definition of industrial ethics and values, Ethical
rules of industrial worker- Values and Value Judgments -- Moral Rights and Moral
rules 121 -- Moral character and responsibilities -- Privacy, confidentiality, Intellectual
property and the law -- Ethics as law.
UNIT II
Understanding Engineering Ethics: Action Oriented- Ethical Vision- Indian Ethos-
Ethics Defined-Engineering Ethics: Various Connotations of Engineering Ethics, Why
Study Engineering Ethics?, Personal and Business Ethics-Ethics and the Law-Senses
of ‘Engineering Ethics’ – Variety of moral issues –Types of inquiry – Moral dilemmas –
Moral Autonomy – Kohlberg’s theory –Gilligan’s theory – Consensus and Controversy
– Professions and Professionalism –Professional Ideals and Virtues – Theories about
right action – Selfinterest –Customs and Religion – Uses of Ethical Theories -
Engineering as a Profession -- Professional Societies -- Core Qualities of Professional
Practitioners -- Professional Institutions, Operating in a Pluralistic Society -
Environments and Their Impact - Economic Environment -- Capital Labor-- Price
Levels -- Government Fiscal and Tax Policies – Customers -- Technology
UNIT III
Engineering as Social Experimentation – Comparison with Standard Experiments,
Knowledge Gained Conscientiousness, Relevant Information, Learning from the Past,
Engineers as managers, consultants, and Leaders, Accountability, Engineers as
responsible Experimenters – Codes of Ethics – A Balanced Outlook on Law.
Engineers and Managers -- Organizational complaint procedures - Government
agencies Resolving Employee concerns – Limits on acceptable behavior in large
corporations -- Ethical and legal considerations, Organizational responses to offensive
behavior and harassment.
UNIT IV
Workplace Rights and Responsibilities Professional Responsibility: The basis
and scope of Professional Responsibility -- Professions and Norms of Professional
Conduct -- Ethical Standards versus Profession -- Culpable mistakes -- the Autonomy
of professions and codes of ethics - - Employee status and Professionalism -- Central
Professional Responsibilities of Engineers: The emerging consensus on the
Responsibility for safety among engineers, Hazards and Risks. Safety and Risk –
Assessment of Safety and Risk – Risk Benefit Analysis and reducing risk - Ethical
standards vs. Professional conduct - Collegiality and Loyalty – Respect for Authority –
Collective Bargaining –Confidentiality – Conflicts of Interest – Occupational Crime –
Professional Rights –Employee Rights – Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) –
128
Discrimination - Organizational complaint procedures - Government agencies -
Resolving Employee concerns.
UNIT V
Ethics in Global Context and Global Issues: Multinational Corporations –
Environmental Ethics – Computer Ethics – Weapons Development – Engineers as
Managers – Consulting Engineers – Engineers as Expert Witnesses and Advisors –
Moral Leadership – Sample Code of Ethics like ASME, ASCE, IEEE, Institution of
Engineers (India), Indian Institute of Materials Management, Institution of Electronics
and Telecommunication Engineers (IETE), India, etc.122
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Ethics in Engineering, Mike Martin and Roland Schinzinger, McGraw Hill. New York
1996.
2. Ethics in Engineering Practice and Research, Caroline Whitbeck, Elsevier.
3. Engineering Ethics, Govindarajan. M, Natarajan. S, Senthilkumar. V.S, Prentice Hall
of India, 2004.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Ethics, Charles D Fleddermann, Prentice Hall, New Jersey, 2004
(Indian Reprint).
2. Engineering Ethics Concepts and Cases, Charles E Harris, Michael S Pritchard and
Michael J Rabins, Thompson Learning, United States, 2000 (Indian Reprint now
available).
3. Ethics and the Conduct of Business, John R Boatright, Pearson Education, New
Delhi, 2003.
4. Fundamentals of Ethics for Scientists and Engineers, Edmund G Seebauer and
Robert L Barry, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2001.
5. Ethics in Engineering, Fourth Edition, Mike W. Martin, Rolan Schinzinger, Mc Graw
Hill publishers
6. Engineering Ethics-An industrial Perspective, Gail Dawn Baura
7. Ethics and Values in Industrial-Organizational Psychology, Joel Lefkowitz
129
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS03) ADVANCED ENGLISH COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
Introduction
This course aims to offer students a practical approach to Technical Writing, and provide a
relevant, contemporary and authoritative introduction to the dynamic field of technical
communication that prepares them for Workplace Communication. Each unit in the syllabus
is devised so as to include a writing component as well as an oral component.
Course objectives:
• Enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content to write
business letters, resume, SOP, Proposals and Technical Reports for academics
as well as for workplace
Enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific target
audience
• Groom students to speak accurately and fluently and prepare them for real world
activities through behavioral skills.
• Train students in soft skills through role play and group discussion to improve
their EQ.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Summarize and synthesize information and produce technical writing that is
required in academics as well as in the engineering profession
• Write covering letters, resume, SOP, Project Proposals and Technical Reports
• Speak fluently and address a large group of audience and participate in debates
and discussions.
• Negotiate terms, manage complex situations through interpersonal skills,
persuade people and make quick decisions.
Methodology
Writing Component
A Process- Genre methodology will be used in teaching the technical genres. This method
would enable students to understand the use of particular lexico-grammatical patterns
required of in the context of technical writing. They would learn to use language to express
the particular communicative intent that is required of in the context of writing these genres.
UNIT I
• Oral Communication :Talking About Yourself
• Applications and Covering letters
130
• Resume Writing
• Verbal Ability: Vocabulary ( Technical and Non-Technical) reading and listening
(analysis and reasoning)
UNIT II
• Oral Communication: Making Presentations
• Writing an SOP
• Summarizing and Synthesizing Information
UNIT III
• . Oral Communication: Group Discussions
• Writing Abstracts
UNIT IV
• Oral Communication : Debate
• Writing Reports
UNIT V
Soft Skills
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Ashraf Rizvi, M (2005). Effective Technical Communication, Tata Mc Graw Hill
Publishing Company Limited, New Delhi.
2. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical
Communication: A Reader-Centered Approach ( 5th ed..) (pp. 457-473). Boston:
Heinle.
3. William S. Pfeiffer, (2012) Technical Communication: A Practical Approach (7th
ed.) Longman
REFERENCES
1. Burnett, Rebecca. Technical Communication. 5th Ed., Heinle, 2001.
2. Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson : Technical Writing Process and
Product. 3rd edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
3. Markel, Mike. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies (8th
EDITION (2006-2007)
4. R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan, Business Correspondence and Report Writing,
Third Edition, TMH, 2002. (Indian Edition)
5. M. Raman and S. Sharma, Technical Communication : Principles and
Practices, OUP, 2004. (Indian Edition)
131
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5IT59) OPERATING SYSTEMS AND COMPUTER NETWORKS LABORATORY
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Learn and understand various error correction and detection mechanisms.
• Examine basic networking commands and networking algorithms.
• Explore operating system processor scheduling and deadlock mitigation
techniques
• Analyze various file, disk and memory management mechanisms.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Implement data link layer functionalities such as framing, error detection
mechanisms
• Design and implement various network applications such as data
• transmission between client and server, file transfer, real-time multimedia
transmission.
• Implement various processor scheduling and page replacement algorithms
• Implement disk scheduling and file allocation strategies
OPERATING SYSTEMS LAB
WEEK 1
1. Simulate the following CPU scheduling algorithms
a) Round Robin b) SJF c) FCFS
WEEK 2
2. Simulate the following algorithms
a) Best fit b) worst fit c) first fit
WEEK 3
3. Simulate the following file allocation strategies
a) Sequential b) Indexed c) Linked
WEEK 4
4. Simulate algorithms for deadlock avoidance and deadlock detection
132
WEEK 5
5. Simulate the following page replacement algorithms
a)FIFO b) Optimal c) LRU
WEEK 6
6. Simulate the following disk scheduling algorithm
a) SCAN b) CSCAN c) LOOK
WEEK 7
Lab internal
COMPUTER NETWORKS LAB
WEEK 8
7. Implement the data link layer framing methods such as character, character
stuffing and bit stuffing.
WEEK 9
8. Implement on a data set of characters the three CRC polynomials – CRC 12,
CRC 16 and CRC CCIP.
WEEK 10
9. Basic Networking commands.
WEEK 11
10. Establishing a network between computers.
WEEK 12
11. Configuring FTP Server for file sharing.
WEEK 13
12. Implement Dijkstra‘s algorithm to compute the Shortest path through a graph.
WEEK 14
Lab internal
TEXT BOOKS
1. Operating System Principles- Abraham Silberchatz, Peter B. Galvin, Greg Gagne
7th Edition, John Wiley.
2. Data Communications and Networking – Behrouz A. Forouzan , Fourth Edition
TMH,2006.
133
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5CS54) COMPILER DESIGN & OOAD LABORATORY
(Common to CSE and IT)
COURSE OBJECTIVES: Student should be able to
• Identify the requirements in use-case driven approach and specify the behavioural
aspects exhibited in each use case for a given case study.
• Classify various classes, relationships, their responsibilities to be carried out on
collaborating , based on these interactions deployment of model for a given case
study can be done.
• Understanding of the language translation peculiarities by designing complete
translator for mini language.
• Provide practical knowledge in implementation of language translator.
COURSE OUTCOMES:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Identify user requirements and represent use case, interaction, activity and state
diagram.
• Develop the class, component diagrams and deploy the model using the
deployment diagram for a given case study
• Design and implement language processors in C
• Develop various phases of compiler using lex, yacc or C.
COMPILER DESIGN
Consider a mini Language, a simple procedural high-level language, only operating on
integer data, with a syntax looking vaguely like a simple C crossed with Pascal. A simple
program written in this language is:
Week 1
Design a Lexical analyzer for a mini language. The lexical analyzer should ignore
redundant spaces, tabs and newlines. It should also ignore comments. Although the syntax
specification states that identifiers can be arbitrarily long, you may restrict the length to
some reasonable value.
Week 2
Implement the lexical analyzer using lex or C.
Week 3
Calculate first and follow for the given grammar using C language.
Week 4
134
Design Predictive parser for the given grammar
Week 5
Write a Lex program to construct a lexical analyzer
Week 6
Write a Yacc Program to construct a parse tree for the given grammar
OBJECT ORIENTED ANALYSIS AND DESIGN LABORATORY
The student should take up the case studies of ATM system, Library Management System
(LMS) and Model it in different views i.e. Use case view, logical view, component view,
Deployment view.
Week 7
Design a Use case Diagram for ATM system, LMS
Week 8
Design a Sequence Diagram for ATM system, LMS
Design a Collaboration Diagram for ATM system, LMS
Week 9
Design a Activity Diagram for ATM system, LMS
Week 10
Design a State Chart Diagram for ATM system, LMS
Week 11
Design a Class Diagram for ATM system, LMS
Week 12
Design a Component Diagram for ATM system, LMS
Design a Deployment Diagram for ATM system, LMS
TEXTBOOKS
1. lex&yacc – John R. Levine, Tony Mason, Doug Brown, O’reilly
2. Grady Booch, James Rumbaugh, Ivar Jacobson: The Unified Modeling Language
UserGuide, Pearson Education.
REFERENCES:
1. Modern Compiler Implementation in C- Andrew N. Appel, Cambridge
UniversityPress.
2. Meilir Page-Jones: Fundamentals of Object Oriented Design in UML, Pearson
Education.
3. Atul Kahate: Object Oriented Analysis & Design, The McGraw-Hill.
135
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5IT12) WEB TECHNOLOGIES
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Learn various fundamental concepts for developing websites and web based
applications.
• To know about technology for data transportation among incompatible systems
and applications.
• Write various programs to develop static and dynamic websites.
• To implement various frameworks for developing well architected web
applications.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the concepts and design web pages with HTML, java script and
CSS.
• Analyze XML for transferring data across documents and Java beans for storing
the data.
• Build server interaction in web applications using servlets, jsps and JDBC.
• Develop frame work based technologies and optimize the applications.
UNIT I
HTML Common tags: List, Tables, images, forms, Frames; Cascading Style sheets.
Introduction to Java Scripts, Objects in Java Script, Dynamic HTML with Java Script.
UNIT II
Introduction to XML: Document type definition, XML Schemas, Document Object model,
Presenting XML, Using XML Processors: DOM and SAX.
Java Beans: Introduction to Java Beans, Advantages of Java Beans, BDK Introspection,
Using Bound properties, Bean Info Interface, Constrained properties Persistence,
Customizes, Java Beans API, Introduction to EJB’s.
UNIT III
Web Servers and Servlets: Tomcat web server, Installing the Java Software Development
Kit, Tomcat Server & Testing Tomcat, Introduction to Servlets: Lifecycle of a Servlet, JSDK,
The Servlet API, The javax. Servlet Package, Reading Servlet parameters, Reading
136
Initialization parameters. The javax. Servlet HTTP package, Handling Http Request &
Responses, Using Cookies-Session Tracking, Security Issues.
UNIT IV
Database Access: Database Programming using JDBC, JDBC drivers, Studying
Javax.sql.* package, Accessing a Database from a Servlet.
Introduction to JSP: The Problem with Servlet. The Anatomy of a JSP Page, JSP
Processing. JSP Application Design with MVC Setting Up and JSP Environment.
UNIT V
JSP Application Development: Generating Dynamic Content, Using Scripting Elements
Implicit JSP Objects, Conditional Processing : Displaying Values Using an Expression to
Set an Attribute, Declaring Variables and Methods Error Handling and Debugging Sharing
Data Between JSP pages, Requests, and Users Passing Control and Date between Pages
– Sharing Session and Application Data – Memory Usage Considerations, Accessing a
Database from a JSP page, Deploying JAVA Beans in a JSP Page, Introduction to struts
framework.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Web Programming, building internet applications, Chris Bates 2nd edition,
WILEY Dreamtech (UNIT s 1, 2)
2. Core servlets and java server pages volume 1: core technologies by Marty Hall and
Larry Brown Pearson (UNITs 3,4,5)
REFERENCES:
1. Programming World Wide Web-Sebesta, Pearson.
2. Internet and World Wide Web – How to program by Dietel and Nieto PHI/Pearson
Education Asia.
3. Jakarta Struts Cook book , Bill Siggelkow, S P D O’Reilly.
4. Java : The complete Reference, 7th Edition by Herbert Schildt. TMH.
137
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS12) INTRODUCTION TO ANALYTICS
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• To introduce the terminology, technology and its applications.
• To introduce the concept of Analytics for Business.
• To introduce the tools, technologies & programming languages which is used in
day to day analytics cycle.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the basic concepts of R programming for Data analysis.
• Apply NOSQL tools for data creation and retrieval
• Classify the Statistical techniques for analysis
• Solve Business problems using relevant methods
Unit I
Introduction to Analytics and R Programming (NOS 2101):
Introduction to R, RStudio (GUI): R Windows Environment, Introduction to various data
types, Numeric, Character, date, Data frame, array, matrix etc., Reading Datasets, Working
with different file types txt, csv etc., Outliers, Combining Datasets, R Functions and loops.
Manage your work to meet requirements (NOS 9001):
Understanding Learning Objectives, Introduction to work & meeting requirements, Time
Management, Work Management & Prioritization , Quality & Standards Adherence.
Unit II
Summarizing Data & Revisiting Probability (NOS 2101):
Summary Statistics-Summarizing data with R, Probability, Expected, Random, Bivariate
Random variables, Probability distribution, Central Limit Theorem etc.,
Work Effectively with Colleagues (NOS 9002):
Introduction to work effectively, Team Work, Professionalism, Effective Communication
skills etc.,
Unit III
SQL using R:
Introduction to NOSQL, Connecting R to NOSQL databases. Excel and R integration with
R Connector.
Unit IV
Correlation and Regression Analysis (nos 9001):
138
Regression Analysis, Assumptions of OLS Regression, Regression Modelling Correlation,
ANOVA, Forecasting, Heteroscedasticity, Autocorrelation, Introduction to Multiple
Regression etc..
Unit V
Understand the Verticals-Engineering, Financial and others (NOS 9002):
Understand systems viz., Engineering Design, Manufacturing, Smart Utilities, Production
lines, Automotive, Technology etc.,
Understanding Business problems related to various businesses
Requirements Gathering
Gathering all the data related to Business Objective.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Student’s Handbook for Associate Analytics.
REFERENCES:
1. Introduction to Probability and Statistics Using R. ISBN:978-0-557-24979-4,
is a textbook written for an undergraduate course in probability and statistics.
2. An Introduction to R, by Venables and Smith and the R Development Core
Team. This may be downloaded for free from the R Project website(http://www.r-
project.org/, see Manuals).
There are plenty of other free references available from the R Project website.
3. Montgomerey, Douglas C., and George C. Runger, Applied statistics and
probability for engineers. John Wiley & Sons, 2010.
4. The Basic Concepts of Time Series Analysis.
http://anson.ucdavis.edu/~azari/sta137/AuNotes.pdf
5. Time Series and Mining with R, Yanchang Zhao.
139
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5IT10) LINUX INTERNALS
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Understand basic principles of Linux Internals.
• To learn Linux process control and shell programming.
• Explain the basic Methods on which the Linux kernel is built upon.
• To familiarize students with basic Linux administration.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Analyze shell types and understand basic Linux commands
• Understand Linux file systems and the associated system calls
• Outline process and signal creation
• Explain network-based communication with IPC and Sockets.
UNIT-I Linux Utilities-File handling utilities, Security by file permissions, Process utilities,
Disk utilities,
Networking commands, Filters, Text processing utilities and Backup utilities, sed – scripts,
operation, addresses, commands, applications, awk – execution, fields and records, scripts
are using system commands in awk.
Working with the Bourne again shell(bash): Introduction, shell responsibilities, pipes and
input Redirection, output redirection, running a shell script, the shell as a programming
language, shell meta characters, file name substitution, shell variables, command
substitution, shell commands, the environment, quoting, test command, control structures,
arithmetic in shell, shell script examples, debugging shell scripts.
UNIT-II Files: File Concept, File System Structure, Inodes, File Attributes, File types,
Library functions, the
standard I/O and formatted I/O in C, stream errors, kernel support for files, System calls, file
descriptors, low level file access – File structure related system calls(File APIs), file and
record locking, file and directory management – Directory file APIs, Symbolic links & hard
links.
UNIT-III
Process – Process concept, Kernel support for process, process attributes, process control
- process creation, waiting for a process, process termination, zombie process, orphan
140
process, Process APIs. Signals– Introduction to signals, Signal generation and handling,
Kernel support for signals, Signal function, unreliable signals, reliable signals, kill, raise ,
alarm, pause, abort, sleep functions.
UNIT-IV
Inter process Communication: Introduction to IPC, Pipes, and FIFOs, Introduction to
three types of IPC-message queues, semaphores and shared memory. Message Queues-
Kernel support for messages, UNIX system V APIs for messages, client/server example.
Semaphores-Kernel support for semaphores, UNIX system V APIs for semaphores.
UNIT-V
Sockets: Introduction to Sockets, Socket Addresses, Socket system calls for connection
oriented protocol and connectionless protocol, example-client/server programs.
Case Study: Case Study on open source Linux Interface.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Unix System Programming using C++, T.Chan, PHI.
2. Unix Concepts and Applications, Sumitabha Das, TMH, 4th Edition, 2006.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Linux System Programming, Robert Love, O’Reilly, SPD.
2. Advanced Programming in the UNIX environment, 2nd Edition, W.R.Stevens, Pearson
Education.
3. Unix Network Programming, W.R.Stevens, PHI.
4. Unix for programmers and users, 3rd Edition, Graham Glass, King Ables, Pearson
Education.
5. Beginning Linux Programming, N. Mathew, R. Stones, Wrox, 4th edition, Wiley India
Edition, rp-2008.
141
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5CS13) DATA MINING
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Introduce the basic concepts and techniques in building a Data Warehouse
• Apply preprocessing methods for any given raw data
• Develop skills of using recent data mining software for solving practical problems
• Implement and apply basic algorithms for supervised and unsupervised learning
• Explore efficient and cost effective methods for maintaining data warehouse
systems
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Appraise raw input and process to generate relevant data for a range of data
mining algorithms.
• Evaluate and measure interesting patterns from heterogeneous databases.
• Identify the appropriate data-mining algorithm for resolving the real-time
applications.
• Design and implement data-mining projects using sample, realistic data sets
and modern tools.
UNIT I:
Introduction: Fundamentals of data mining, KDD process, Data Mining Functionalities,
Classification of Data Mining systems, Data Mining Task primitives, Integration of a Data
mining System with a Database or a Data warehouse systems, Major issues in Data
Mining.
Data Preprocessing: Needs for Preprocessing the Data, Data Cleaning, Data Integration
and Transformation, Data Reduction, Discretization and Concept Hierarchy Generation.
UNIT II:
Data Warehouse and OLAP Technology for Data Mining: Data Warehouse,
Multidimensional Data Model, Data Warehouse Architecture, Data Warehouse
Implementation, From Data Warehousing to Data Mining.
142
Data Cube computation and Data Generalization: Efficient Methods for Data Cube
Computation, Further Development of data cube and OLAP Technology, Characterization
and Discrimination: Attribute-Oriented Induction.
UNIT – III
Mining Frequent, Associations and Correlations: Basic Concepts, Frequent Itemset
mining methods, Mining Multilevel Association Rules from Transaction Databases, Mining
Multidimensional Association Rules from Relational Databases and Data Warehouses,
From Association Mining to Correlation Analysis, Constraint-Based Association Mining.
UNIT – IV
Classification and Prediction: Issues Regarding Classification and Prediction,
Classification by Decision Tree Induction, Bayesian Classification, Classification by Back
propagation, Classification Based on Concepts from Association Rule Mining, Other
Classification Methods, Prediction, Classifier Accuracy.
UNIT – V
Cluster Analysis Introduction: Types of Data in Cluster Analysis, A Categorization of
Major Clustering Methods, Partitioning Methods, Density-Based Methods, Grid-Based
Methods, Model-Based Clustering Methods, Outlier Analysis.
Mining Complex Types of Data: Mining Spatial Databases, Mining Multimedia Databases,
Mining Time-Series and Sequence Data, Mining Text Databases, Mining the World Wide
Web.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Data mining: Concepts and Techniques, Jiawei Han and Micheline Kamber, 2nd
Edition, Elsevier, 2006.
2. Data Mining Techniques – ARUN K PUJARI, University Press.
REFERENCES:
1. Introduction to data mining, Pang-Ning Tan, Michael Steinbach, Vipin Kumar,
Addison-Wesley, 2005. ISBN : 0321321367.
2. Mining Introductory and advanced topics –MARGARET H DUNHAM, PEARSON
EDUCATION
3. Lecture Notes on Data Mining, Micheal W.Berry, Murray Browne, World Scientific
Publishing Co
4. Data Mining for Association Rules and Sequential Patterns: Sequential and
Parallel Algorithms, Jean-Marc Adamo, ISBN: 0387950486
5. Data Warehousing in the Real World – SAM ANAHORY & DENNIS MURRAY.
Pearson Edn Asia.
143
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech IISem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE72) INTRODUCTION TO GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM
(Open Elective – 2)
Course Objectives
• To describe and define various concepts of Remote Sensing and GIS.
• To enable the students to analyze data using GIS.
• To make the students appraise the importance of accuracy in GIS.
• To enable the students to apply GIS knowledge in solving various problems in
real world scenario.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Students will be able to describe different concepts and terms used in GIS
• Students will be able to compare and process different data sets
• Students will be able to evaluate the accuracy and decide whether a data set can
be used or not.
• Students will be able demonstrate various applications GIS.
UNIT I:
Introduction to GIS: Introduction, History of GIS, GIS Components, GIS Applications in
Real life, The Nature of geographic data, Maps, Types of maps, Map scale, Types of scale,
Map and Globe, Co-ordinate systems, Map projections, Map transformation, Geo-
referencing,
UNIT II:
Spatial Database Management System: Introduction: Spatial DBMS, Data storage,
Database structure models, database management system, entity-relationship model,
normalization
Data models and data structures: Introduction, GIS Data model, vector data structure,
raster data structure, attribute data, geo-database and metadata,
UNIT III:
Spatial Data input and Editing: Data input methods – keyboard entry, digitization,
scanning, conversion of existing data, remotely sensed data, errors in data input, Data
accuracy, Micro and Macro components of accuracy, sources of error in GIS.
Spatial Analysis: Introduction, topology, spatial analysis, vector data analysis, Network
analysis, raster data analysis, Spatial data interpolation techniques
UNIT IV: Implementing a GIS and Advanced GIS
Implementing a GIS: Awareness, developing system requirements, evaluation of
alternative systems, decision making using GIS
144
Advanced GIS: WebGIS concept, webGIS fundamentals,Potential of web GIS, Server side
strategies, client side strategies, mixed strategies, webGIS applications
UNIT V: Applications of GIS
GIS based road network planning, Shortest path detection using GIS, Hazard Zonation
using remote sensing and GIS, GIS for solving multi criteria problems, GIS for business
applications, Mineral mapping using GIS.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Introduction to Geographic Information systems by Kang-tsung Chang,
McGrawHill Education (Indian Edition), 7th Edition, 2015.
2. Fundamentals of Geographic Information systems by Michael N. Demers, 4th
Edition, Wiley Publishers, 2012.
REFERENCES:
1. Geographic Information systems – An Introduction by Tor Bernhardsen, Wiley
India Publication, 3rd Edition, 2010.
2. Remote Sensing and GIS by Basudeb Bhatta, Oxford University Press, 2nd
Revised Edition, 2011.
3. Textbook of Remote Sensing and Geographical Information systems by M.Anji
Reddy, B.S.Publications, 4th Edition, 2012.
4. Textbook of Remote Sensing and Geographical Information systems by Kali
Charan Sahu, Atlantic Publishers and Distributors, 1st Edition, 2007.
145
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EE72) ENERGY AUDITING CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT
(Open Elective-2)
Course Objectives
• To understand the necessity of conservation of Energy.
• To know the methods of Energy management.
• To identity the factors to increase the efficiency of electrical equipment.
• To know the benefits of carrying out energy Audits.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• To conduct Energy Audit of industries.
• To manage energy Systems
• To specify the methods of improving efficiency of electric motor.
• To improve power factor and to design a good illumination system
• To calculate pay back periods for energy saving equipment.
Unit I Basic principles of Energy audit
Energy audit- definitions, concept , types of audit, energy index, cost index ,pie charts,
Sankey diagrams, load profiles, Energy conservation schemes- Energy audit of industries-
energy saving potential, energy audit of process industry, thermal power station, building
energy audit
Unit II Energy management
Principles of energy management, organizing energy management program, initiating,
planning, controlling, promoting, monitoring, reporting- Energy manager, Qualities and
functions, language, Questionnaire - check list for top management
Unit III Energy efficient Motors
Energy efficient motors, factors affecting efficiency, loss distribution, constructional details,
characteristics - variable speed, variable duty cycle systems, RMS hp- voltage variation-
voltage unbalance- over motoring- motor energy audit
Unit IV Power Factor Improvement, Lighting and energy instruments
Power factor – methods of improvement, location of capacitors, p.f with non-linear loads,
effect of harmonics on p.f. , p.f motor controllers - Good lighting system design and
146
practice, lighting control, lighting energy audit - Energy Instruments- watt meter, data
loggers, thermocouples, pyrometers, flux meters, tongue testers ,application of PLC’s
Unit V Economic aspects and analysis
Economics Analysis-Depreciation Methods, time value of money, rate of return, present
worth method, replacement analysis, life cycle costing analysis- Energy efficient motors-
calculation of simple payback method, net present worth method- Power factor correction,
lighting - Applications of life cycle costing analysis, return on investment.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Energy management, W.R. Murphy & G. Mckay Butter worth, Heinemann
publications.
2. Energy management, Paul o’ Callaghan, Mc-graw Hill Book company-1st edition,
1998
REFERENCES:
1. Energy efficient electric motors, John .C. Andreas, Marcel Dekker Inc Ltd-2nd
edition, 1995-
2. Energy management handbook, W.C.Turner, John wiley and sons
3. Energy management and good lighting practice: fuel efficiency- booklet12-EEO
147
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME/ AE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 3
(5ME72) OPTIMIZATION TECHNIQUES
(Open Elective -2)
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Operation Research
Course Objectives:
• To understand the classification of optimization techniques and its practical use.
• To understand about the optimization of one dimensional optimization methods.
• To know about constrained minimization methods.
• To understands Geometric and dynamic programmings.
Learning Outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Apply the different types of optimization techniques for different purposes.
• Formulate and solve the problems by using one dimensional unconstrained
minimization methods.
• Formulate and solve the problems (industrial/research) by using the geometric
programming.
• Formulate and solve the industrial problems by using the dynamic programming
methods.
UNIT I
Introduction: Engineering Applications; Statement of the Optimal Problem: Classification;
Optimization Techniques. Classical Methods: Single Variable Optimization; Multivariable
Optimization without any Constraints with Equality and Inequality Constraints.
UNIT II
One-Dimensional Minimization Methods: Uni-model Function; Elimination Methods –
Dichotomous Search, Fibonacce and Golden Section Methods; Interpolation Methods –
Quadratic and Cubic Interpolation Methods.
UNIT III
Unconstrained Minimization Methods: Univariate, Conjugate Directions, Gradient and
Variable Metric Methods.Constrained Minimization Methods: Characteristics of a
constrained problem; Direct Methods of feasible directions; Indirect Methods of interior and
exterior penalty functions.
148
UNIT IV
Geometric Programming: Formulation and Solutions of Unconstrained and Constrained
geometric programming problems.
UNIT V
Dynamic Programming: Concept of Sub-optimization and the principle of optimality;
Calculus, Tabular and Computational Methods in Dynamic Programming; An Introduction to
Continuous Dynamic Programming.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Optimization (Theory & Applications), S.S. Rao, Wiley Eastern Ltd., New Delhi.
2. Optimization Concepts and Applications in Engineering, Ashok D.Belegundu and
Tirupathi R Chandrupatla, Pearson Education.
REFERENCES:
1. Optimization: Theory and Practice, C.S.G. Beveridge and R.S. Schechter, MGH,
New York.
2. Engineering Optimization by S.S Rao
3. Operations Research by S D Sharama
149
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EC72) INTRODUCTION TO MICRO PROCESSORS AND CONTROLLERS
(Open Elective -2)
Course Objectives:
• Differentiate various number systems
• Develop simple application using 8085 microprocessors
• Develop simple applications using 8051 microcontrollers
Course outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Understand basic computing concepts
• Know architecture of 8085 micro processors and 8051 Microcontrollers
• Interface peripherals to microprocessor
• Program internal resources of 8051 microcontroller
UNIT I
Introduction to Computing
Numbering and Coding Systems: Binary, Decimal, Hexadecimal and conversions, Binary
and Hexadecimal Arithmetic, Complements, Alphanumeric codes. Digital Premier, Inside
the Computer
UNIT II
8085 Microprocessor
Features, Architecture and operation of 8085, Programming Model, External Memory for
8085
UNIT III
Programmable Peripheral Devices
Programmable Peripheral Interface (8255), USART (8251), Programmable Interval Timer
(8253) and interfacing.
UNIT IV
8051 Microcontrollers
Microcontrollers and Embedded Processors, Overview of the 8051 family, Architecture and
Programming Model of 8051, Timers and Counters, parallel and serial ports, Interrupts,
Special Function Register formats, Internal Memory Organization
UNIT V
Applications
8051 Programming in C: Data types for the 8051, programs for IO operations, programs on
Timer operations, Serial IO ports, and interrupts, Case Study: DC Motor Control
150
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Microprocessor Architecture, Programming and Applications with the 8085/8080A,
Gaonkar
2. The 8051 Microcontroller and Embedded Systems: Using Assembly and C, 2nd
Edition, Muhammad Ali Mazidi,Janice Gillispie Mazidi, Rolin D. McKinlay
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. The 8051 Microcontroller : programming, architecture by Ayala & Gadre, Cengage
Publications
2. Digital Design – Morris Mano, PHI, 3rd Edition, 2006.
151
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5EC95) WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS AND NETWORKS
Prerequisite: Computer Networks
Course Objectives:
• Understand fundamentals of wireless communications
• Know basics of wireless networks
• Differentiate fixed IP and Mobile IP
• Learn design of basic wireless LAN network
Course outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the fundamental concepts of Cellular communications
• Differentiate various multiple access techniques
• Learn wireless protocols used in wireless Networks
• Understand mobile IP requirements
UNIT I
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS & SYSTEM FUNDAMENTALS:
Introduction to wireless communications systems, examples, comparisons & trends. Cellular
concepts-frequency reuse, strategies, interference & system capacity, trunking and grade of
service, improving coverage &capacity in cellular systems.
UNIT II
MULTIPLE ACCESS TECHNIQUES FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATION:
FDMA, TDMA, SSMA (FHMA/CDMA/Hybrid techniques), SDMA technique (AS applicable to
wireless communications). Packet radio access-protocols, CSMA protocols ,reservation protocols
,capture effect in packet radio , capacity of cellular systems .
UNIT III
WIRELESS NETWORKING:
Introduction, differences in wireless & fixed telephone networks, traffic routing in wireless networks
–circuit switching, packet switching X.25 protocol. Wireless data services – cellular digital packet
data (CDPD), advanced radio data information systems, RAM mobile data (RMD). Common
152
channel signaling (CCS), ISDN-Broad band ISDN & ATM, Signalling System no .7(SS7)-
protocols, network services part, user part, signaling traffic, services and performance.
UNIT IV
MOBILE IP AND WIRELESS APPLICATION PROTOCOL:
Mobile IP Operation of mobile IP, Co-located address, Registration, Tunneling, WAP Architecture,
overview, WML scripts, WAP service, WAP session protocol, wireless transaction, Wireless
datagram protocol.
UNIT V
WIRELESS LAN TECHNOLOGY:
Infrared LANs, Spread spectrum LANs, Narrow bank microwave LANs, IEEE 802 protocol
Architecture, IEEE802 architecture and services, 802.11 medium access control, 802.11 physical
layer.
BLUE TOOTH: Overview, Radio specification, Base band specification, Links manager
Specification, Logical link control and adaptation protocol. Introduction to WLL Technology.
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Wireless Communication and Networking – William Stallings, PHI, 2003.
2. Wireless Communications, Principles, Practice – Theodore, S. Rappaport, PHI, 2nd Edn.,2002.
3. Principles of Wireless Networks – Kaveh Pah Laven and P. Krishna Murthy,Pearson Education,
2002.
REFERENCES:
1. Wireless Digital Communications – Kamilo Feher, PHI, 1999Page 26 of 38
153
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS72)OPEN SOURCE TECHNOLOGIES
(Open Elective - 2)
Course Objectives
• Understand Perl, Python, PHP and Ruby to new situations and learn from the
experience.
• Assist Perl programmer or database administrator to compile large programming set.
• Incorporate PHP into HTML files, Write basic PHP scripts, Process form input, Write
and use functions.
• Apply advanced techniques, tools, and methodologies that can be used to build
complex, scalable, PHP applications.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Understand text processing applications using PERL and enable them on internet.
• Build web based applications with encryption functions using PHP.
• Design automated tasks and conduct data analysis using Python.
• Inspect PERL, PYTHON, PHP, RUBY languages in developing interactive web
applications
UNIT I.
Introduction to PERL
Scripts and Programs, Origin of Scripting, Scripting Today, Characteristics of Scripting
Languages, Web Scripting, and the universe of Scripting Languages. PERL- Names and
Values, Variables, Scalar Expressions, Control Structures, arrays, list, hashes, strings,
pattern and regular expressions, subroutines, advance Perl - finer points of looping, pack
and unpack, file system, eval, data structures, packages, modules, objects, interfacing to
the operating system, Creating Internet ware applications, Dirty Hands Internet
Programming, security Issues.
UNIT II
PHP Basics
PHP Basics- Features Embedding PHP Code in your Web pages, Outputting the data to
the browser, Data types, Variables, Constants, expressions, string interpolation, control
structures . Function, Creating a Function, Function Libraries, Arrays, strings and Regular
Expressions.
UNIT III.
Advanced PHP Programming
154
PHP and Web Forms, Files, PHI3 Authentication and Methodologies -Hard Coded, File
Based, Database Based, IP Based, Login Administration, Uploading Files with PHI3,
Sending Email using PHP, PHI3Encryption Functions, the Merypt package, Building Web
sites for the World - Translating Websites- Updating Web sites Scripts, Creating the
Localization Repository, Translating Files, text. Generate Binary Files, Set the desired
language within your scripts. Localizing Dates, Numbers and Times.
UNIT IV.
Python
Introduction to Python language, python-syntax,statements,functions,Built-in-functions and
Methods, Modules in python, Exception Handling, Integrated Web Applications in Python -
Building Small, Efficient Python Web Systems ,Web Application Framework.
UNIT V
Ruby
Basics of Ruby, classes, objects and variable, arrays, Exception Handling ,threads, Regular
Expressions, Strings, Objects in Ruby
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Programming Perl Larry Wall, T.Christiansen and J.Orwant, O’Reiily,SPD.
2. Guide to Programming with Python, M.Dawson, Cengage Learning.
3. The Ruby Programming Language 1st Edition by David Flanagan
4. Professional PHP Programmingby Jesus M. Castagnetto , Harish Rawat , Deepak
T. Veliath (WROX publication)
REFERENCES:
1. Perl Power, J.P.Flynt, Cengage Learning.
2. Perl by Example, E, QuigIey, Pearson Education.
3. Programming Ruby: The Pragmatic Programmer's Guide, by Pragmatic Dave
Thomas, Andy Thomas
4. Professional PHP6 by WROX publication
155
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year – B.Tech-II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EI72) Lab VIEW PROGRAMMING
(Open Elective-2)
Course Objectives:
• Understand the new concept in measurement and automation.
• Understand how to control an external measuring device byinterfacing a
computer.
• Competent in data acquisition and instrument control.
• Program for networking and other applications like Digital image processing
control system and signal processing.
Course Outcome:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Develop a Virtual Instrument using LabVIEW to communicate with real world.
• Identify salient traits of a virtual instrument and incorporate these traits in their
projects.
• Experiment, analyze and document in the laboratory prototype measurement
• Develop program for application like networking, Digital image processing ,control
system, etc
UNIT I:
Virtual Instrumentation:
istorical perspective, advantages, block diagram and architecture of a virtual instrument,
data-flow techniques, graphical programming in data flow, comparison with conventional
programming. Development of Virtual Instrument using GUI, ActiveX Programming.
UNIT II:
Structures and sequence:
Controlling program execution with structures: While and For loops, Shift registers, Case
and Sequence structure and Sub VI
Unit III:
Composite Data and Displays:
Arrays and Structures: Two dimension array, Auto Indexing to set the for loop count,
Building arrays with auto indexing, Array Acrobats, Polymorphism, Cluster Order, Cluster to
pass data, Bundling and unbundling cluster, Interchangeable arrays and cluster , Error
Cluster and Error handling functions:
Chart update modes, Single Plot chart, Wiring multiple plot chart, Single Plot verus Multiple
plot data types, The X scroll bar, clearing the chart, Stacked and overlaid plots, Multiple Y
156
scales and chart history lengths.: Activity: Temperature monitor, Graphing a sine wave, XY
plot to plot a circle,Temperature analysis and 3D graphs.
Unit IV:
Strings, File output and Signal Measurements and generation:
Single line strings, online string updation, Scroll bar, Writing and reading a measurement
file,Writing and reading from a spread sheet, Computer to real world interface using
LabVIEW, Creating Ni DAQ Task in Measurement and Automation Explorer (MAX),
Generating code from MAX, DAQ timing and trigger, Multichannel and continuous
acquisition, Streaming Data file and Counting frequency and events.VI Chassis
requirements. Common Instrument Interfaces: Current loop, RS 232C/ RS485,
GPIB.
Unit V:
Applications:
Networking basics for office & Industrial applications, VISA and IVI, VI toolsets, Distributed
I/O modules, Development of Control system, Industrial Communication, Image acquisition
and processing,
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Gary Johnson, LabVIEW Graphical Programming, 2nd edition,McGraw Hill,Newyork,
1997.
2. Lisa K. wells & Jeffrey Travis, LabVIEW for everyone, Prentice Hall, New Jersey, 1997.
REFERENCES:
1. Kevin James, PC Interfacing and Data Acquisition: Techniques for Measurement,
Instrumentation and Control, Newnes,2000.
157
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5EI79) FUNDAMENTALS OF ROBOTICS
Course Objectives
The course is intended for students to:
· Understand the Robot coordinate system and control system
· Learn different types of Robot sensors and actuators
· Identify different types of Robot grippers and their applications.
· Acquire Knowledge on kinematics and vision systems used for different Robots
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
· Gain knowledge about basic concepts of robots.
· Appreciate the usage of different actuators, sensors and grippers in Robotics.
· Analyze the direct and the inverse kinematic problems.
· Able to identify the applications of Machine Vision in Robotics.
UNIT I:
Basic Concepts:
An over view of Robotics, classification of Robots, Robot Components, Robot degrees of
freedom, Robot Joints, Robot Coordinates, Robot reference frames, Programming modes, Robot
Characteristics.
UNIT II:
Sensors:
Sensor characteristics, Position sensors, Velocity sensors, Acceleration sensors, Force and
Pressure sensors, Torque sensors, Microswitches, Light and infrared sensors, Touch and tactile
sensors, Proximity sensors, Range finders.
Unit III:
Actuators and Grippers:
Characteristics of actuating system, Comparison of actuating systems, Hydraulic actuators,
Pneumatic devices, Electric motors, Magneto-strictive actuators, Shape-Memory Metals, Electro-
active Polymer Actuators.
Classification of Grippers, Drive system for Grippers, Mechanical Grippers, Magnetic Grippers,
Vacuum Grippers, Adhesive Grippers, Hooks and Scoops, Gripper Force analysis and design,
Active and Passive Grippers.
UNIT IV:
Kinematics:
158
Robots as Mechanisms, Matrix Representation, Homogeneous Transformation Matrices,
Representation of Transformations, Inverse of Transformation Matrices, Forward and Inverse
Kinematics with Equations.
UNIT V:
Vision:
Image acquisition, Illumination Techniques, Imaging Geometry, Basic Relationships between
Pixels, Segmentation, Description, Segmentation and Description of 3-D Structures, Recognition,
Interpretation.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Saeed B. Niku ,Introduction To Robotics : Analysis, Control, Applications ,Wiley, 2nd
Edition .
2. Deb.S.R, ”Robotics technology and flexible Automation”, John Wiley
REFERENCES
1. Mikell P Groover, Nicholas G Odrey, Mitchel Weiss, Roger N Nagel, Ashish Dutta,
“Industrial Robotics, Technology programming and Applications", McGraw Hill, 2012.
2. K.S.Fu, R.C.Gonzalez, C.S.G Lee, “Robotics- Control ,Sensing ,Vision and Intelligence
”,McGraw-Hill International Edition.
3. Klafter. R.D, Chimielewski. T.A, Negin. M, “Robotic Engineering–An integrated
approach”, Prentice Hall of India, New Delhi
159
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year – B.Tech-II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5IT72) RELATIONAL DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
(Open Elective - 2)
Course Objectives:
• To describe database management systems (DBMS) concepts and relational
data model.
• To employ DBMS concepts to organize, maintain and retrieve information
efficiently and effectively from a DBMS.
• To discuss the concepts of transactions and transaction processing systems
• To examine the issues and techniques relating to concurrency and recovery in
multi-user database environments
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Describe the fundamental concepts of database management. These concepts
include aspects of database design, database languages, and database-system
implementation.
• Employ the Relational Database Model to understand the Logical and Physical
aspects of the DBMS architecture.
• Analyze and Apply normal forms for real time database applications.
• Evaluation of transaction properties and file organization methods
UNIT-I
Introduction to Databases and Database Management System - Database system
Applications - Advantages of DBMS over File System - Data Models – Instances and
schema - View of Data - Database Languages -DDL-DML - Database Users and
Administrator - Database System Structure.
UNIT-II
Database Design and ER diagrams – Attributes and Entity Sets – Relationships and
Relationship Sets – Constraints - Keys - Design Issues - Entity-Relationship Diagram-
Weak Entity Sets - Extended E-R Features- Database Design with ER model - Database
Design for Banking Enterprise
UNIT – III
160
Introduction to the Relational Model – Structure of RDBMS - Integrity Constraints over
Relations – Enforcing Integrity Constraints – Querying Relational Data - Relational Algebra
and Calculus.
Introduction to SQL- Data Definition commands, Data Manipulation Commands, Basic
Structure, Set operations Aggregate Operations - Join operations - Sub queries and
correlated queries, SQL functions , views ,Triggers, Embedded SQL.
UNIT – IV
Functional Dependencies– Introduction , Basic Definitions, Trivial and Non trivial
dependencies, closure of a set of dependencies, closure of attributes, irreducible set of
dependencies- Schema Refinement in Database Design- Problems Caused by
Redundancy – Decompositions – Problem Related to Decomposition –- Lossless Join
Decomposition – Dependency Preserving Decomposition - FIRST, SECOND, THIRD
Normal Forms – BCNF –– Multi valued Dependencies – Fourth Normal Form.
UNIT-V
Transaction concept- Transaction state- Implementation of atomicity and Durability-
Concurrent executions – Serializability, Recoverability
File Organization – Organization of records in file - Data Dictionary Storage – Indexing and
Hashing – Basic Concepts , Ordered Indices,B+Tree Index files, B- tree index files
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Database System Concepts, Silberschatz, Korth , Sixth Edition, McGraw hill (
1,2,3 and 5 Units)
2. Introduction to Database Systems, C.J.Date, Pearson Education (4th Unit)
REFERENCES:
1. Fundamentals of Database Systems, ElmasriNavrate Pearson Education
2. Database Management Systems, Raghu ramakrishnan, Johannes Gehrke, TATA
Mc Graw Hill(1,2,3 and 5 Units)
3. Data base Systems design, Implementation, and Management, Peter Rob and
Carlos Coronel 7th Edition.
4. Data Base Systems using Oracle : A simplified guide to SQL and PL /SQL, Shah,
PHI
161
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B.Tech. III Year II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5AE72) MODERN AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGIES
(Open Elective-2)
Course objectives:
• Provide an overview on advanced engine control system concepts
• Study the concepts and drivetrain configurations of electric and hybrid electric
vehicles
• Present principle, working and automotive applications of fuel cell and solar
technology
• Aware of intelligent vehicle technologies like navigation, safety, security and
comfort systems
Learning outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Apply advanced engine control system concepts in engineering
• Discuss electric and hybrid electric drivetrain technologies and drivetrain
components
• Describe automotive applications of fuel cell and solar technology
• Appreciate the technological advancements driver assistance systems
UNIT I
ADVANCED ENGINE CONTROLS: Concept of an electronic engine control system,
electronic fuel injection - throttle body fuel injection, multi point fuel injection, gasoline direct
injection, common rail direct injection, electronic ignition control, engine mapping, on-board
diagnostics – engine control module and powertrain control module.
UNIT II
ELECTRIC AND HYBRID VEHICLES: Electric vehicles -Layout of an electric vehicle,
performance, energy consumption, advantage and limitations. Hybrid electric vehicles -
Concepts, types of hybrid drive train architecture, merits and demerits.
162
UNIT III
FUEL CELL AND SOLAR VEHICLES: Fuel cell vehicle – Operating principle, types of fuel
cells, fuel cell options for fuel cell vehicle and fuel cell hybrid vehicle. Solar vehicle - Solar
photovoltaic cell, solar array, solar car electrical system and drive train.
UNIT IV
TELEMATICS AND COMFORT SYSTEMS: Global positioning system, geographical
information systems, navigation system, automotive vision system, adaptive cruise control
system, active suspension system, power steering and power windows.
UNIT V
SAFETY AND SECURITY SYSTEMS: Active and passive safety, airbags, seat belt
tightening system, collision warning systems, anti lock braking systems, traction control
system, electronic immobilizers, remote keyless entry, smart card system, number plate
coding.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. William B Riddens, “Understanding Automotive Electronics”, 5th edition, Butter worth
Heinemann Woburn,1998.
2. Mehrdad Ehsani, Yimin Gao, sebastien E. Gay and Ali Emadi, “Modern Electric, Hybrid
Electric and Fuel Cell Vehicles: Fundamentals, Theory and Design”, CRC Press, 2005.
REFERENCES:
1. Ljubo Vlacic, Michel Parent and Fumio Harashima, “Intelligent Vehicle Technologies”,
Butterworth-Heinemann publications, Oxford, 2001.
2. “Automotive Hand Book” Robert Bosch, SAE, 5th edition, 2000.
3. Iqbal Husain, “Electric and Hybrid Vehicles: Design Fundamentals, CRC Press, 2003.
4. “Navigation and Intelligent Transportation Systems – Progress in Technology”, Ronald
K Jurgen, Automotive Electronics Series, SAE, USA, 1998.
163
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B.Tech. III Year II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS72) ENTERPRENEURESHIP
(Open Elective-2)
Course Objective:
• To introduce basics of entrepreneurship development and the skills set required
for innovation.
• To understand changing business trends to enhance decision making skills.
• To learn analytical and conceptual skills of identifying opportunities and check on
their feasibility for start-ups.
• To motivate the engineers to choose entrepreneurship as a career for personal
and societal growth.
Course Outcome:
After completion of the course the students are able:
• To identify business opportunities and equip themselves in preparing business
plans
• To analyze and evaluate different proposals and its requirements for start-up’s.
• To pitch the ideas to launch their own venture.
• To assess the impact of competition and find methods to overcome the problems
in business.
UNIT-1:
Entrepreneurial Skills-Opportunities
Entrepreneurship as a career, Personality and Skill Set of Entrepreneur, The Wisdom of
Five WHY’s and in action, Value and Growth-Stories of Successful Enterprises.
Innovation and Entrepreneurship: Three Learning Milestones of Innovation: Use of
Minimum Viable Product-Startup’s must tune the baseline towards the ideal-Pivot or
Persevere.
UNIT-2:
Changing Business Environment-Role of Entrepreneur
The Role of Quality and Design, Beyond “The right place at the right time”, Current trends
in Business, Entrepreneurial Management.
UNIT-3:
Origins Of Lean Start-up-Business Plans
164
The Concept of Vision to Steering:From Start-Define-Learn-Experiment to Leap-Test-
Measure-Pivot.
UNIT-4:
Validation of Projects and Products
Projects Evaluation by Budgeting Techniques, Value vs Waste, Analogs and Antilogs,
Analysis Paralysis, Why first products are not meant to be perfect-Experiences,Forecasting
and Experimenting of Products.
UNIT-5:
Start-up Methods and Understanding Competition
Accelerating Start-up’s, optimization versus learning, Kanban Diagram of work as it
progresses from stage to stage, the value of three A’s: Actionable, Accessible and
Auditable, Engines of growth to determine product/market fit,adopting smaller batches,
reasons for Failures in Start-up’s, Pricing Strategies Based On Competition
Text Books:
1. EricRies, “The Lean Startup”, Crown Business, New York. v.3.1.
2. Hisrich, Entrepreneurship, Tata McGraw Hill, New Delhi, 2001.
3. S.S.Khanka, Entrepreneurial Development, S.Chand and Company Limited, New
Delhi, 2001.
Refrences:
1. Mathew Manimala, Entrepreneurship Theory at the Crossroads, Paradigms &
Praxis,Biztrantra ,2nd Edition ,2005
2. Prasanna Chandra, Projects – Planning, Analysis, Selection, Implementation and
Reviews,Tata McGraw-Hill, 1996.
3. P.Saravanavel, Entrepreneurial Development, Ess Pee kay Publishing House,
Chennai -1997.
4. Arya Kumar. Entrepreneurship. Pearson. 2012
5. Donald F Kuratko, T.V Rao. Entrepreneurship: A South Asian perspective.
Cengage Learning.2012
165
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5CS55) DATA MINING AND ANALYTICS LABORATORY
(Common to CSE)
Data Mining Laboratory
Course Objectives:
• Demonstrate the basic concepts and techniques of Data Mining using WEKA
machine learning toolkit.
• Performing data preprocessing tasks for data mining in WEKA
• Applying various classification algorithms on data sets using the WEKA machine
learning toolkit
• Exploring clustering and Association rule techniques using the WEKA
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course, the students are expected to:
• Explore the data preprocessing steps using WEKA tool.
• Develop and analyze the principle algorithms and techniques used in data mining,
such as clustering, association mining, classification and prediction.
• Implement statistical analysis techniques using R for solving practical problems
• Design appropriate statistical tests using R and visualize the outcome
Task-1(a)
Title: Introduction to the Weka machine learning toolkit
Aim: To learn to use the Weak machine learning toolkit
1. What options are available on main panel?
2. What is the purpose of the the following in Weka:
1. The Explorer
2. The Knowledge Flow interface
3. The Experimenter
4. The command-line interface
3. Describe the arfffile format.
4. Press the Explorer button on the main panel and load the weather dataset and answer
the following questions
1. How many instances are there in the dataset?
2. State the names of the attributes along with their types and values.
166
3. What is the class attribute?
4. In the histogram on the bottom-right, which attributes are plotted on the X,Y-
axes? How do you change the attributes plotted on the X,Y-axes?
5. How will you determine how many instances of each class are present in the
data
6. What happens with the Visualize All button is pressed?
7. How will you view the instances in the dataset? How will you save the
changes?
Task-1(b)
1. What is the purpose of the following in the Explorer Panel?
1. The Preprocess panel
1. What are the main sections of the Preprocess panel?
2. What are the primary sources of data in Weka?
2. The Classify panel
3. The Cluster panel
4. The Associate panel
5. The Select Attributes panel
6. The Visualize panel.
2. Load the weather dataset and perform the following tasks:
1. Use the unsupervised filter Remove With Values to remove all instances where
the attribute ‘humidity’ has the value ‘high’?
2. Undo the effect of the filter.
3. Answer the following questions:
1. What is meant by filtering in Weka?
2. Which panel is used for filtering a dataset?
3. What are the two main types of filters in Weka?
4. What is the difference between the two types of filters? What is the
difference between and attribute filter and an instance filter?
3. Load the iris dataset and perform the following tasks:
1. Press the Visualize tab to view the Visualizer panel.
2. What is the purpose of the Visualizer?
3. Select one panel in the Visualizer and experiment with the buttons on the
panel.
Task-2
Title: Classification using the Weka toolkit
Aim: To perform classification on data sets using the Weka machine learning toolkit
Requirements
1. Load the ‘weather.nominal.arff’ dataset into Weka and run Id3 classification algorithm.
Answer the following questions
1. List the attributes of the given relation along with the type details
2. Create a table of the weather.nominal.arff data
3. Study the classifier output and answer the following questions
1. Draw the decision tree generated by the classifier
2. Compute the entropy values for each of the attributes
167
3. What is the relationship between the attribute entropy values and the nodes of
the
Decision tree?
4. Draw the confusion matrix? What information does the confusion matrix provide?
5. Describe the following quantities:
1. TP Rate 2. FP Rate
3. Precision 4. Recall
Task 3:
Title: Performing data preprocessing tasks for data mining in Weka
Aim: To learn how to use various data preprocessing methods as a part of the data mining
Requirements
Application of Discretization Filters
1. Perform the following tasks
1. Load the 'sick.arff' dataset
2. How many instances does this dataset have?
3. How many attributes does it have?
4. Which is the class attribute and what are the characteristics of this attribute?
5. How many attributes are numeric? What are the attribute indexes of the numeric
attributes?
6. Apply the Naive Bayes classifier. What is the accuracy of the classifier?
2. Perform the following tasks:
1. Load the 'sick.arff' dataset.
2. Apply the supervised discretization filter.
3. What is the effect of this filter on the attributes?
4. How many distinct ranges have been created for each attribute?
5. Undo the filter applied in the previous step.
6. Apply the unsupervised discretization filter. Do this twice:
1. In this step, set 'bins'=5
2. In this step, set 'bins'=10
3. What is the effect of the unsupervised filter filter on the datset?
7. Run the the Naive Bayes classifier after apply the following filters
1. Unsupervised discretized with 'bins'=5
2. Unsupervised discretized with 'bins'=10
3. Unsupervised discretized with 'bins''=20.
8. Compare the accuracy of the following cases
1. Naive Bayes without discretization filters
2. Naive Bayes with a supervised discretization filter
3. Naive Bayes with an unsupervised discretization filter with different values for
the 'bins' attributes.
Task 4:
Title :Performing clustering using the data mining toolkit
Aim :To learn to use clustering techniques
Requirements
1.Perform the following tasks:
1. Load the ‘bank.arff’ data set in Weka.
168
2. Write down the following details regarding the attributes:
1. names
2. types
3. values.
3. Run the Simple K-Means clustering algorithm on the dataset
1. How many clusters are created?
2. What are the number of instances and percentage figures in each cluster?
3. What is the number of iterations that were required?
4. What is the sum of squared errors? What does it represent?
5. Tabulate the characteristics of the centroid of each cluster.
6. Visualize the results of this clustering (let the X-axis represent the cluster
name, and the Y-axis represent the instance number)
1. Is there a significant variation in age between clusters?
2. Which clusters are predominated by males and which clusters are
predominated by females?
3. What can be said about the values of the region attribute in each cluster?
4. What can be said about the variation of income between clusters?
5. Which clusters are dominated by married people and which clusters are
dominated by unmarried people?
6. How do the clusters differ with respect to the number of children?
7. Which cluster has the highest number of people with cars?
8. Which clusters are predominated by people with savings accounts?
9. What can be said about the variation of current accounts between clusters?
10. Which clusters comprise mostly of people who buy the PEP product and
which ones are comprised of people who do not buy the PEP product?
4. Run the SimpleKMeans algorithm for values of K (no. of clusters) ranging from 1 to
12. Tabulate the sum of squared errors for each run. What do you observe about the
trend of the sum of squared errors?
5. For the run with K=12, answer the following questions:
1. Is there a significant variation in age between clusters?
2. Which clusters are predominated by males and which clusters are
predominated by females?
3. How do the clusters differ with respect to the number of children?
4. Which clusters comprise of people who buy the PEP product and which ones
are comprised of people who do not buy the PEP product?
5. Do you see any differences in your ability to evaluate the characteristics of
clusters generated for K=6 versus K=12? Why does this difference arise?
Task 5:
Title
Using Weka to determine Association rules
169
Aim
To learn to use Association algorithms on datasets
Requirements
1. Perform the following tasks
1. Define the following terms
1. item and item set
2. Association
3. Association rule
4. Support of an association rule
5. Confidence of an association rule
6. Large item set
7. Association rule problem
2. What is the purpose of the Apriori Algorithm
2. Perform the following tasks:
1. Load the ‘vote.arff’ dataset
2. Apply the Apriori association rule
3. What is the support threshold used? What is the confidence threshold used?
4. Write down the top 6 rules along with the support and confidence values.
5. What does the figure to the left of the arrow in the association rule represent?
6. What does the figure to the right of the arrow in the association rule represent?
7. For rule 8, verify that numerical values used for computation of support and
confidence are
in accordance with the data by using the Preprocess panel. Then compute the support and
confidence values. Are they above the threshold values?
3. Perform the following tasks:
1. Load the dataset ‘weather.nominal.arff’.
2. Apply the Apriori association rule
1. Consider the rule “temperature=hot ==> humidity=normal.” Compute the
support and confidence for this rule.
2. Consider the rule “temperature=hot humidity=high ==> windy=TRUE.”
Consider the support and confidence for this rule.
3. Is it possible to have a rule like the following rule:
“outlook=sunny temperature=cool” ==> humidity=normal play=yes
4. Perform the following tasks:
1. Load the bank-data.csv file.
2. Apply the Apriori association rule algorithm. What is the result? Why?
3. Apply the supervised discretization filter to the age and income attributes.
4. Run the Apriori rule algorithm
5. List the rules that were generated.
Text Books:
1. Data mining: Concepts and Techniques, Jiawei Han and Micheline Kamber, 2nd
Edition, Elsevier, 2006.
2. Data Mining Techniques – ARUN K PUJARI, University Press.
170
REFERENCES:
1. SQL‐PL/SQL by Ivan Bayrose
2. Data Warehousing Fundamentals By Paulraj
3. Data Mining Introductory & Advanced Topic by Margaret H. Dunham
4. Data Mining Techniques – ARUN K PUJARI, University Press.
5. Data Mining for Association Rules and Sequential Patterns: Sequential and
Parallel Algorithms, Jean-Marc Adamo, ISBN: 0387950486
INTRODUCTION TO ANALYTICS (ASSOCIATE ANALYTICS-I)
Course Objectives:
• To Introduction the terminology, technology and its applications
• To introduction the concept of Analytics for Business
• To introduction the tools, technologies and Programming Language R which is
used by day to day analytics cycle
COURSE OUTCOMES:
• Explore various R environment, related software and documentation, R
andstatistics.
• Illustrate statistical computing which includes programming in R, reading data into
R, accessing R packages.
• Demonstrate different debugging, and organizing and commenting R code.
• Extract large data sets to perform visualization and Statistical data analysis.
Course Description:
In this course students will learn how to program in R and how to use R for effective data
analysis. Students will learn how to install and configure software necessary for a statistical
programming environment; discuss generic programming language concepts as they are
implemented in a high-level statistical language. The course covers practical issues in
statistical computing which includes programming in R, reading data into R, accessing R
packages, writing R functions, debugging, and organizing and commenting R code. Topics
in statistical data analysis and optimization will provide working examples.
Schedule:
• Week 1: Introduction and preliminaries: The R environment, Related software and
documentation, R and statistics
• Week 2: Simple manipulations: numbers and vectors
• Week 3: Objects, their modes and attributes, Intrinsic attributes: mode and length,
Changing the length of an object
171
• Week 4: Ordered and unordered factors
• Week 5: Arrays and matrices
• Week 6: Lists and data frames
• Week 7: Mid Term Examination-I
• Week 8: Reading data from files
• Week 9: Probability distributions
• Week 10: Grouping, loops and conditional execution
• Week 11: Writing your own functions
• Week 12: Statistical models in R
• Week 13: Graphical procedures: High-level plotting commands, Low-level plotting
commands
• Week 14: Mid Term Examination-II
TEXT BOOKS:
1. An Introduction to R, Notes on R: A Programming Environment for Data
Analysis and Graphics Version 3.2.3 (2015-12-10), W. N. Venables, D.
M. Smith and the R Core Team
2. Students Hand book for Associate Analytics
REFERENCES:
1. Introduction to Probability and Statistics Using R, ISBN: 978-0-557-24979-4
is a Text book written for an undergraduate course in Probability and
Statistics.
2. An Introduction to R, by Venables and Smith and the R Development Core
team. This may downloaded for free from the R project website (http://www.r-
project.org/, see manuals). There are plenty of other free references
available from the R Project website.
3. Montgomery, Douglas C, and George C, Runger, Applied Statistics and
Probability for Engineers, John Wiley & Sons, 2010.
172
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5IT58) WEB TECHNOLOGIES LABORATORY
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Learn various fundamental concepts for developing websites and web based
applications.
• Know about the technology for data transportation among incompatible systems
and applications.
• Develop static and dynamic websites.
• Implement various client side and server side scripting technologies for
developing web applications.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Design client side interactive pages using HTML,java script and CSS.
• Create XML documents and transfer them across the systems.
• Compose server side pages using servlets, JSP and JDBC.
• Develop enterprise applications by integrating client and server side pages.
WEEK 1
Design the following static web pages required for an online book store web site.
1) HOME PAGE:
The static home page must contain three frames.
Top frame : Logo and the college name and links to Home page, Login page, Registration
page, Catalogue page and Cart page (the description of these pages will be given below).
Left frame : At least four links for navigation, which will display the catalogue of respective
links. For e.g.: When you click the link “CSE” the catalogue for CSE Books should be
displayed in the Right frame.
Right frame: The pages to the links in the left frame must be loaded here. Initially this page
contains description of the web site.
Web Site Name
Logo
Home Login Registration Catalogue Cart
173
CSE
ECE
EEE Description of the Web Site
CIVIL
Fig 1.1
2) LOGIN PAGE:
This page looks like below:
Web Site Name
Logo
Home Login Registration Catalogue Cart
CSE
ECE Login :
EEE Password:
CIVIL
Submit Reset
3) CATOLOGUE PAGE:
The catalogue page should contain the details of all the books available in
the web site in a tabular format.
The details should contain the following:
1. Snap shot of Cover Page.
2. Book Title, Author Name, Publisher.
3. Price.
4. Add to cart button.
Logo Web Site Name
174
Home Login Registration Catalogu Cart
e
CSE Book : XML Bible
Author : Winston $ 40.5
ECE Publication : Wiely
EEE
Book : AI $ 63
Author : S.Russel
Publication : Princeton
CIVIL
hall
Book : Java 2 $ 35.5
Author : Watson
Publication : BPB
publications
Book : HTML in 24 hours $ 50
Author : Sam Peter
Publication : Sam
publication
WEEK 2
4) CART PAGE:
The cart page contains the details about the books which are added to the cart.
The cart page should look like this:
Logo Web Site Name
Home Login Registration Catalogue Cart
175
IT
CSE Book name Price Quantity Amount
ECE
EEE Java 2 $35.5 2 $70
CIVIL XML bible $40.5 1 $40.5
Total amount - $130.5
5) REGISTRATION PAGE:
Create a “registration form “with the following fields
1) Name (Text field)
2) Password (password field)
3) E-mail id (text field)
4) Phone number (text field)
5) Sex (radio button)
6) Date of birth (3 select boxes)
7) Languages known (check boxes – English, Telugu, Hindi, Tamil)
8) Address (text area)
WEEK 3
VALIDATION:
176
a) Write JavaScript to validate the following fields of the above registration page.
1. Name (Name should contains only alphabets and the length should not be
less than 6 characters).
2. Password (Password should not be less than 6 characters length).
3. E-mail id (should not contain any invalid and must follow the standard pattern
name@domain.com)
4. Phone number (Phone number should contain 10 digits only).
b) Write JavaScript to validate the above login page with the above parameters.
WEEK 4
Design a web page using CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) which includes the following:
1) Use different font, styles:
In the style definition you define how each selector should work (font, color etc.).
Then, in the body of your pages, you refer to these selectors to activate the styles.
For example:
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<style type="text/css">
B.headline {color:red; font-size:22px; font-family:arial; text-decoration:underline}
</style>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<b>This is normal bold</b><br>
<b class="headline">This is headline style bold</b>
</BODY>
</HTML>
2) Set a background image for both the page and single elements on the page.
You can define the background image for the page like this:
BODY {background-image:url(myimage.gif);}
177
3) Control the repetition of the image with the background-repeat property.
As background-repeat: repeat
Tiles the image until the entire page is filled, just like an ordinary background
image in plain HTML.
4) Define styles for links as
A:link
A:visited
A:active
A:hover
Example:
<style type="text/css">
A:link {text-decoration: none}
A:visited {text-decoration: none}
A:active {text-decoration: none}
A:hover {text-decoration: underline; color: red;}
</style>
5) Work with layers:
For example:
LAYER 1 ON TOP:
<div style="position:relative; font-size:50px; z-index:2;">LAYER 1</div>
<div style="position:relative; top:-50; left:5; color:red; font-size:80px; z- index:1">LAYER 2</div>
LAYER 2 ON TOP:
<div style="position:relative; font-size:50px; z-index:3;">LAYER 1</div>
<div style="position:relative; top:-50; left:5; color:red; font-size:80px; z- index:4">LAYER 2</div>
6) Add a customized cursor:
Selector {cursor:value}
For example:
<html>
<head>
178
<style type="text/css">
.xlink {cursor:crosshair}
.hlink{cursor:help}
</style>
</head>
<body>
<b>
<a href="mypage.htm" class="xlink">CROSS LINK</a>
<br>
<a href="mypage.htm" class="hlink">HELP LINK</a>
</b>
</body>
</html>
WEEK 5
Write an XML file which will display the Book information which includes the following:
1) Title of the book
2) Author Name
3) ISBN number
4) Publisher name
5) Edition
6) Price
Write a Document Type Definition (DTD) to validate the above XML file.
Display the XML file as follows.
The contents should be displayed in a table. The header of the table should be in color
GREY. And the Author names column should be displayed in one color and should be
capitalized and in bold. Use your own colors for remaining columns.
Use XML schemas XSL and CSS for the above purpose.
Note: Give at least for 4 books. It should be valid syntactically.
Hint: You can use some xml editors like XML-spy
WEEK 6
179
VISUAL BEANS:
Create a simple visual bean with a area filled with a color.
The shape of the area depends on the property shape. If it is set to true then the shape of
the area is Square and it is Circle, if it is false.
The color of the area should be changed dynamically for every mouse click. The color
should also be changed if we change the color in the “property window “.
WEEK 7
Install TOMCAT web server.
While installation assign port number 8000 to TOMCAT. Make sure that these ports are
available i.e., no other process is using this port.
Access the above developed static web pages for books web site, using these servers by
putting the web pages developed in week-1 and week-2 in the document root.
Access the pages by using the urls: http://localhost:8000/vnr/books.html
WEEK 8
User Authentication :
Assume four users user1, user2, user3 and user4 having the passwords pwd1,pwd2,pwd3
and pwd4 respectively. Write a servelet for doing the following.
1. Create a Cookie and add these four user id’s and passwords to this Cookie.
2. Read the user id and passwords entered in the Login form (week1) and authenticate
with the values (user id and passwords ) available in the cookies.
If he is a valid user (i.e., user-name and password match) you should welcome him by
name(user-name) else you should display “ You are not an authenticated user “.
Use init-parameters to do this. Store the user-names and passwords in the web.xml and
access them in the servlet by using the getInitParameters() method.
WEEK 9
Install JSDK.
User Authentication :
Assume four users user1, user2, user3 and user4 having the passwords pwd1, pwd2, pwd3
and pwd4 respectively. Write a servelet for doing the following.
1. Use init-parameters to do this. access them in the servlet by using the
180
getInitParameters() method.
2. Read the user id and passwords entered in the Login form (week1) and authenticate
with the values (user id and passwords ) with above accessed values.
If user is a valid user (i.e., user-name and password match) you should welcome user by
name (user-name) else you should display “ You are not an authenticated user “.
WEEK 10
Install a database (Mysql or Oracle).
Create a table which should contain at least the following fields: name, password, email-id,
phone number (these should hold the data from the registration form).
Practice 'JDBC' connectivity.
Write a java program/servlet/JSP to connect to that database and extract data from the
tables and display them. Experiment with various SQL queries.
Insert the details of the users who register with the web site, whenever a new user clicks
the submit button in the registration page (week2).
WEEK 11
Write a JSP which does the following job: Insert the details of the 3 or 4 users who register
with the web site (week9) by using registration form. Authenticate the user when he submits
the login form using the user name and password from the database (similar to week8
instead of cookies).
WEEK 12
Create tables in the database which contain the details of items (books in our case like
Book name, Price, Quantity, Amount)) of each category. Modify your catalogue page (week
2) in such a way that you should connect to the database and extract data from the tables
and display them in the catalogue page using JDBC.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Web Programming, building internet applications, Chris Bates 2nd edition,
WILEY Dreamtech.
2. Core servlets and java server pages volume 1: core technologies By Marty Hall
and Larry Brown Pearson.
181
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech CSE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5CS56) LINUX INTERNALS LABORATORY
(Common to CSE)
Course Objectives:
• Apply the basic commands to handle the Linux Environment.
• Use the Shell/C scripting constructs to modify the file system content.
• Implement the process management concepts using C language.
• Design Client-Server Applications using Sockets and TCP/UDP protocols.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Make use of Shell Scripts in managing Linux Environment
• Construct C Scripts to handle the File system in Linux.
• Implement the IPC Mechanisms in Linux operating system using C language
• Build and Analyze the Client-Server Environment using various protocols.
List of Experiments
1. Basic Linux Commands File handling utilities, Security by file permissions,
Process utilities, Disk utilities, sed, awk, grep.
2. Write a shell script that accepts a file name, starting and ending line numbers as
arguments and displays all the lines between the given line numbers.
3. Write a shell script that deletes all lines containing a specified word in one or more
files supplied as arguments to it.
4. Write a shell script that displays a list of all the files in the current directory to
which the user has read, write and execute permissions.
5. C programming examples using Linux Operating systems.
6. Write a shell script that receives any number of file names as arguments checks if
every argument supplied is a file or a directory and reports accordingly.
Whenever the argument is a file, the number of lines on it is also reported.
7. Write a shell script that accepts a list of file names as its arguments, counts and
reports theoccurrence of each word that is present in the first argument file on
other argument files.
8. Write a shell script to list all of the directory files in a directory.
9. Write a shell script to find factorial of a given integer.
182
10. Write an awk script to count the number of lines in a file that do not contain
vowels.
11. Write an awk script to find the number of characters, words and lines in a file.
12. Implement in C the following Unix commands using System calls
a)Cat b) mv
13. Write a C program to emulate the Unix ls – l command.
14. Write a C program on zombie process
15. Write a C program that illustrates the following.
a) Creating a message queue.
b) Writing to a message queue.
c) Reading from a message queue.
16. Write a C program that illustrates file locking using semaphores.
Text Books:
1. Unix System Programming using C++, T.Chan, PHI.
2. Unix Concepts and Applications, 4th Edition, Sumitabha Das, TMH,2006.
References:
1. Beginning Linux Programming, 4th Edition, N.Matthew, R.Stones,Wrox, Wiley
India Edition,rp-2008
2. Linux System Programming, Robert Love, O’Reilly, SPD.
3. Advanced Programming in the Unix environment, 2nd Edition, W.R.Stevens,
Pearson Education.
4. Unix Network Programming ,W.R.Stevens,PHI.
5. Unix for programmers and users, 3rd Edition, Graham Glass, King Ables,
Pearson Education.
183
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS17) BIG DATA ANALYTICS
(Common to CSE and IT)
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To explore the fundamental concepts of data analytics
• To learn to analyze the data analysis techniques
• To explore the techniques related to mining streams
• To understand, explore Hadoop framework technology and its associated tools
along with visualization methods
COURSE OUTCOMES:
After completion of this course the student is able to:
• Identify the major sources of data; apply pre-processing tasks and summary
statistics on data
• Understand the concept of Hadoop and analyze data on HDFS and its comparison
with other systems.
• Explain Hadoop framework and its components-PIG, HIVE, HBASE, ZOOKEEPER
• Examine Machine Learning algorithms and represent data using visualization tools.
Unit I:
Data Management (NOS 2101):
Design Data Architecture and manage the data for analysis, understand various sources of
Data like Sensors/signal/GPS etc. Data Management, Data Quality (noise, outliers, missing
values, duplicate data) and Data Preprocessing.
Export all the data onto Cloud ex. AWS/Rackspace etc.
Maintain Healthy, Safe & Secure Working Environment(NOS 9003):
Introduction, workplace safety, Report Accidents & Emergencies, Protect health & safety as
your work, course conclusion, assessment.
Unit II
Big Data Tools(NOS 2101):
Introduction to Big Data tools like Hadoop, Spark, Impala etc. Data ETL process, Identify
gaps in the data and follow-up for decision making.
Provide Data/Infromation in Standard Formats(NOS 9004):
184
Introduction, Knowledge management, Standardized reporting & compliances, Decision
Models, course conclusion, Assessment.
Unit III
Big Data Analytics:
Run descriptives to understand the nature of the available data, collate all the data sources
to suffice business requirement, Run descriptive statistics for all the variables and observer
the data ranges, Outlier detection and elimination.
Unit IV
Machine Learning Algorithms(NOS 9003):
Hypothesis testing and deremining the multiple analytical analytical methodologies, Train
Model on 2/3 sample data using various Statistical / Machine learning algorithms, test
model on 1/3 sample for prediction etc.,
U nit V
(NOS 9004)
Data Visualization(NOS 2101):
Prepare the data for Visualization, Use tools like Tableau, QlickView and D3, Draw insighs
out of Visualization tool. Product Implementation
TEXT BOOK:
1. Student’s Handbook for Associate Analytics.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Introduction to Data Mining, Tan, Steinbach and Kumar, Addison Wesley, 2006.
2. Data Mining Analysis and Concepts, M. Zaki and W.Meira (the authors have
kindly made an online version available)
http://www.dataminingbook.info/uploads/book.pdf
3. Mining of Massive Datasets Jure Leskovec Stanford Univ. Anand Rajaraman
Milliway Labs Jeffrey D. Ullman Stanford Univ.
4. (http://www.vistrails.org/index.php/Course:_Big_Data_Analysis)
185
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS42)MANAGEMENT SCIENCE
Course Prerequisites: Business Economics and Financial Analysis
Course Objectives:
• Understand the principles, functions, theories and practices of different
management areas and to provide them with practical exposure to cases of
success/failure in business.
• Expose with a systematic and critical understanding of organizational theory,
structures and design.
• Comprehend conceptual models of strategic management and to familiarize with
the tools of operations and project management.
• Understand the role of human relations in the management of operations and to
provide basic insights into contemporary management practices.
Course outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Function effectively in multidisciplinary teams to accomplish a common goal of
organizations.
• Apply theories to improve the practice of management.
• Appreciate the management challenges associated with high levels of change in
the organizations.
• Develop global vision and management skills at both a strategic level and
interpersonal level.
UNIT I
Introduction to management
Concepts of management - nature, importance, and functions of management; Taylor’s
scientific management theory; Fayol’s principles of management; Mayo’s Hawthorne
experiments; Maslow’s theory of human needs; Douglas McGregor’s theory X and theory Y;
Herzberg’s two-factor theory of motivation; System and contingency approach to
management; Planning – meaning, significance, and types of plans; Decision making and
186
steps in decision making process; Leadership styles; Social responsibilities of
management.
Organizing - Meaning, and features; Process of organization; Principles of organization;
Elements of organization; Organization chart; Span of control - Graicunas formulae;
Centralisation and decentralization; Types of mechanistic and organic structures of
organisation - line organization, line and staff organization, functional organization,
committee organization, matrix organization, virtual organisation, cellular organisation, team
structure, boundaryless organization, inverted pyramid structure, and lean and flat
organization structure; Their merits, demerits and suitability.
UNIT II
Human resources management
Concepts of HRM; Basic functions of HR manager - human resource planning (definition;
objectives; process), recruitment (definition; sources; techniques), selection (definition;
process), induction and orientation, training and development (definition; need; methods),
employee exit process, employee relations management, employee compensation and
benefits administration, job evaluation (objectives; process; methods), and performance
appraisals (objectives; process; methods).
UNIT III
Strategic management
Mission; Goals; Objectives; Policy; Strategy; Programmes; Elements of corporate planning
process - environmental scanning; value chain analysis, BCG matrix, generic strategy
alternatives, SWOT analysis, and steps in strategy formulation and implementation;
Balance score card; Capability maturity model (CMM)/ People capability maturity
model(PCMM).
UNIT IV
Operations management
Plant location; Types of plant layout; Methods of production – job, batch, and mass
production; Work study-basic procedure involved in method study and work measurement.
Materials management
Objectives; Need for inventory control; EOQ, ABC Analysis; Purchase procedure; Value
analysis; JIT, Six sigma; TQM; Supply chain management; Stores management and stores
records.
Marketing
Functions of marketing; Marketing mix, and marketing strategies based on product life
cycle; Channels of distribution.
187
UNIT V
Project management – network analysis
Network analysis; Programme evaluation review technique - PERT (probability of
completing the project within given time); Critical path method - CPM (Identifying critical
path); Project cost analysis; Project crashing; Simple problems.
TEXT BOOK
1. Management Science by Aryasri; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill, 2009.
2. Principles and Practice of Management - L.M. Prasad; Publisher: Sultan Chand
Publications, New Delhi.
REFERENCES
1. Principles of Marketing: A South Asian Perspective by Kotler Philip, Gary Armstrong,
Prafulla Y. Agnihotri, and Eshan ul Haque , 2010, 13th Edition, Publisher: Pearson
Education/ Prentice Hall of India.
2. Management by James Arthur, Finch Stoner, R. Edward Freeman, and Daniel R.
Gilbert 6th Ed; Publisher: Pearson Education/Prentice Hall.
3. A Handbook of Human Resource Management Practice by Michael Armstrong, 2010;
Publisher: Kogan Page Publishers.
4. Operations Management: Theory and Practice by B. Mahadevan, 2010; Publisher:
Pearson Education.
5. Strategic Management by V.S.P. Rao and V. Hari Krishna, 2010; Publisher: Excel
Books.
188
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS16) NETWORK SECURITY
Common to CSE)
Course Objectives:
• Outline security concepts, threats, attacks, services and mechanisms.
• Describe various cryptosystems- symmetric key cryptography, public key
cryptography.
• Apply authentication services, mechanisms and Email security.
• Discuss the concepts of IP Security, web security, viruses and firewalls.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of this course, students should be able to:
• Analyze the basics of security attacks, services, goals and mechanism .
• Apply variety of cryptographic algorithms, Hash Functions and protocols
underlying network security and authentication applications.
• Examine and analyze various Email and Web Security mechanisms.
• Understand the System Level Security issues.
SYLLABUS:
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION: Security Attacks, Services Mechanisms, A model for Internetwork
security, Classical Encryption techniques, Fiestel Cipher Structure,
Data Encryption Standard, Block Cipher Design Principles and Modes of Operation, Triple
DES, RC-4, Evaluation criteria for AES, AES Cipher, Placement of Encryption Function,
Traffic Confidentiality.
UNIT II
PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOGRAPHY
Confidentiality using Symmetric Encryption – Principles of Public key Cryptosystems, RSA
algorithm, Key Management, Diffie-Hellman key Exchange, Elliptic Curve Cryptography.
Buffer overflow, TCP session hijacking, ARP attacks, route table modification, UDP
hijacking and man-in-the-middle attacks.
UNIT III
AUTHENTICATION AND HASH FUNCTIONS
189
Authentication requirements, Authentication functions, Message Authentication Codes,
Hash Functions, Security of Hash Functions and MACs, MD5 message Digest algorithm ,
Secure Hash Algorithm, HMAC, Digital Signatures, Authentication Protocols, Digital
Signature Standard, Authentication Applications: Kerberos, X.509 Authentication Service
UNIT IV
NETWORK SECURITY: Email Security and Web Security
Electronic Mail Security – PGP/ SMIME, IP security- Architecture, Authentication Header,
Encapsulating Security Payload, Key Management, Web Security- Secure Socket Layer,
Transport Layer Security and Secure Electronic Transaction
UNIT V
SYSTEM LEVEL SECURITY
Intrusion detection – password management – Viruses and related Threats – Virus Counter
measures – Firewall Design Principles – Trusted Systems.
TEXT BOOKS
1. William Stallings, “Cryptography And Network Security – Principles and
Practices”, Prentice Hall of India, Fourth Edition, 2005.
2. “Hack Proofing your network” by Ryan Russell, Dan Kaminsky, Rain Forest,
Puppy, Joe Grand, DavidAhmad, Hal Flynn Ido Dubrawsky, Steve W.Manzuik and
Ryan Permeh, wiley Dreamtech
REFERENCES
1. Network Security Essentials: Applications and Standards by William
Stallings.Prentice Hall, Hardcover, Published November 1999, 366 pages, ISBN
0130160938
2. Charles B. Pfleeger, Shari Lawrence Pfleeger, “Security in Computing”, Third
Edition, Pearson Education, 2003
3. Cryptography: Theory and Practice by Douglas R. Stinson, CRC press,
hardcover, Published March, 1995. ISBN 0-8493-8521-0
4. Bruce Schneier, “Applied Cryptography”, John Wiley & Sons Inc, 2001
190
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS10) ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE & NEURAL NETWORKS
(Common to CSE)
Course Objectives:
• Understand and analyze the importance and basic concepts of artificial intelligence
and the use of agents.
• Identify, explore the complex problem solving approaches and strategies.
• Explore and analyze the basic concepts of neural networks and learning process.
• Analyze the concepts of neural network algorithms for various domains.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Apply the basic concepts of artificial intelligence, use of agents in the real time
applications.
• Solve complex problems using Searching techniques.
• Design, construct and evaluate a Neural Network system, with learning process
models.
• Make Use of moderate techniques necessary to implement and evaluate Neural
Network algorithms.
UNIT I
Introduction to AI – Foundations of AI – History of AI - Intelligent Agents – Agents and
Environments – Nature of Environments – Structure of Agents – Problem solving
Agents – Problem formulation – Example Problems
UNIT II
Search Techniques – Uninformed Search Strategies – Breadth first search – Depth
first search – Depth limited search – Iterative deepening depth first search - Bi-
directional search – comparison – Search with partial information - Heuristic search –
Greedy best first search – A* search – Memory bounded heuristic search - Heuristic
functions - Local search algorithms - Hill climbing – Simulated annealing search -
Local beam search – Genetic algorithms
UNIT III
Constraint satisfaction problems – Backtracking search for CSP’s - local search for
constraint satisfaction problem.
Adversarial search – Games - Minimax algorithm - optimal decisions in multiplayer
games - Alpha beta pruning - evaluation functions - cutting off search.
191
UNIT IV
What is a neural network, Human Brain, Models of a Neuron, Neural networks viewed
as Directed Graphs, Network Architectures, Artificial Intelligence and Neural Networks.
Learning Laws, Error Correction learning, Memory based learning, Hebbian learing,
Competitive, Boltzmann learning.
UNIT V
Adaptive filtering problem, Unconstrained Organization Techniques, Linear least
square filters, least mean square algorithm, Perceptron and its convergence theorem,
Introduction to Multilayer Perceptron, Back propagation algorithm
TEXT BOOKS
1. Artificial Intelligence: A modern approach by Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig,3rd
Edition, Prentice Hall, 2010.
2. Neural networks A comprehensive foundation, Simon Haykin, Pearson Education, 2nd
Edition, 2004
REFERENCES
1. Artificial Intelligence by Elaine Rich & Kevin Knight,2nd Edition, TMH
2. Artificial Intelligence, A New Synthesis by Nils J. Nilsson, ELSEVIER
3. Artificial Neural Networks by Yegnanarayana.B, PHI
192
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5IT75) MOBILE COMPUTING
(Elective-I)
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Summarize the necessity of wireless communication and the basics of GSM
network.
• Understand various wireless MAC Protocols.
• Define the architecture for IEEE802.11, Bluetooth.
• Analyze wired and wireless networks, network and transport layer protocols
• Appraise Data Dissemination Methods for Synchronization.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Describe the wireless communication technologies and understand the protocols
used in the layered architecture of GSM.
• Understand the major Multiple Access Protocols.
• Interpret WLAN and Bluetooth Architectures
• Summarize network layer and transport layer protocols and issues related to
database management in mobile computing.
UNIT-I
Introduction to Mobile Communications and Computing:
Mobile Computing (MC): Introduction to MC, Novel applications, Limitations, and
Architecture.
GSM: Mobile services, System architecture, Radio interface, Protocols, Localization and
calling, Handover, Security, and New data services-GPRS.
UNIT-II
(Wireless) Medium Access Control (MAC): Motivation for a Specialized MAC (Hidden
and Exposed Terminals, Near and Far Terminals), SDMA, FDMA, TDMA, CDMA.
UNIT-III
WIRELESS LAN: Infra red Vs radio transmission, Infrastructure and Ad-hoc Network, IEEE
802.11:System Architecture, Protocol Architecture, Bluetooth : User Scenarios,
Architecture.
UNIT-IV
193
Mobile IP Network Layer: Mobile IP (Goals, assumptions, entities and terminology, IP
packet delivery, agent advertisement and discovery, registration, tunneling and
encapsulation, optimizations), Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP).
Mobile Transport Layer: Traditional TCP, Indirect TCP, Snooping TCP, Mobile TCP, Fast
retransmit/fast recovery, Transmission/ time-out freezing, Selective retransmission,
Transaction oriented TCP.
UNIT-V
Database Issues: Hoarding techniques, caching invalidation mechanisms. Data
Dissemination: Communications asymmetry, classification of new data delivery
mechanisms, pushes based mechanisms, pull-based mechanisms, hybrid mechanisms,
selective tuning (indexing) techniques.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. “Mobile Communications”, Jochen Schiller, Addison-Wesley, Second Edition,
2004
2. ”Mobile Computing”, Raj Kamal, Oxford University Press ,2007
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. “Mobile Computing Principles: Designing and Developing Mobile Applications with
UML and XML“, Reza Behravanfar, Cambridge University Press, Oct2004.
2. “Mobile and Wireless Design Essentials”, Martyn Mallick, Wiley DreamTech,
2003.
3. “Principles of Mobile Computing”, Hansmann, Merk, Nicklous, Stober,
4. “Handbook of Wireless Networks and Mobile Computing”, Stojmenovic and
Cacute, Wiley, 2002,
194
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5IT81) INFORMATION SECURITY MANAGEMENT
(SECURITYANALYST-I)
(ELECTIVE -1)
(Common to CSE)
Course Objectives:
• To introduce the terminology, technology and its applications
• To introduce the concept of Security Analyst
• To introduce the tools, technologies & programming languages which is used in
day to day security analyst job role.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course, the student will be able to
• Explain the fundamentals of Information Security Management.
• Identify the areas of data leakage and implements the DLP system
• Design and explain Information security Policies procedures and guidelines
• Illustrate information security management roles, responsibilities
UNIT-I
Information Security Management:
Information Security Overview, Threats and Attack Vectors, Types of Attacks, Common
Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE),Security Attacks, Fundamentals of Information
Security, Computer Security Concerns, Information Security Measures etc.
Manage your work to meet requirements (NOS 9001).
UNIT-II
Fundamentals of Information Security:
Key Elements of Networks, Logical Elements of Network, Critical Information
Characteristics, Information States etc.
Work effectively With Colleagues (NOS 9002).
UNIT-III
Data Leakage:
What is Data Leakage and statistics, Data Leakage Threats, Reducing the Risk of Data
Loss, Key Performance Indicators (KPI) and Database Security etc..
UNIT-IV
Information Security Policies, Procedures and Audits:
195
Information Security Policies-necessity-key elements & characteristics, Security Policy
Implementation, Configuration, Security Standards-Guidelines & Frameworks etc.
UNIT-V
Information Security Management-Roles and Responsibilities:
Security Roles & Responsibilities, Accountability, Roles and Responsibilities of Information
Security Management, team-responding to emergency situation-risk analysis process etc.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Management of information security by Michael E.Whitman and Herbert
J.Mattord
REFERENCES:
1)http://www.iso.org/iso/home/standards/management-standards/iso27001.htm
2)http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-55-Rev1/SP800-55-rev1.pdf
196
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS74) GAMING ENGINEERING
(Elective-I)
(Common to CSE)
Course Objectives:
• Discuss the event-based programming & resource management as it relates to
rendering time, including level-of-detail and culling.
• Describe the various components in a game/game engine.
• Identify leading open source game engine components & game physics.
• Demonstrate game animation & exposure to processing real world problems on
GPU.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Understand all game development problems and issues, such as story creation,
character control, scene management, selection of programming language,
mathematical analysis, physical analysis, graphics, multimedia, artificial intelligence,
and others.
• Describe the hardware and software components of a gaming system.
• Design and model a single-user 2D and 3D game and also model a multi-user PC
or Mobile game
• Evaluate complex logic problems using the tools and techniques found in Computer
Science, Software Engineering, and Game Programming.
UNIT I: Introduction to Game Programming
History of Computer Games, Game design principles and architecture, Game design
process, Basic Structure of a Game ,Using XNA and working with Xbox 360, Structure of
an XNA application , Installing XNA and opening your first XNA project, Working with XNA's
Sprite Manager ,Component programming, C# vs. Java .
UNIT II: 2-D Game Design
Rendering 2D images to the screen, Scaling, rotating and positioning 2D images, Keyboard
input, Playing sound effects in XNA, Per-pixel texture manipulations, Random terrain slope
generation, Alpha blending, Collision detection, And even a complete 2D particle engine
for the explosions.
UNIT III: 3-D Game Design
Effect file, First triangle: defining points, displaying them using XNA, World space: defining
points in 3D space, defining camera position, Rotation & translation, Indices, Terrain
197
basics, Terrain from file, reading user input on the keyboard, Adding colors, Lighting basics,
Terrain lighting.
UNIT IV: 3-D Game Programming Using HLSL
Graphics Processing Unit (GPU), Running a game on GPU, HLSL introduction, Vertex
format, Vertex shader, Pixel shader, Per-pixel colors, Textured triangle, Triangle strip,
World transform, World normals, Per-pixel lighting, Shadow map, Render to texture,
Projective texturing, Real shadow, Shaping the light, Preshaders.
UNIT V: Case Studies
Creating a Shooters (2-D) game and Creating a Flight Sim(3-D) game.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. XNA 3.0 Game Programming Recipes: A Problem-Solution Approach, Riemer
Grootjans, A Press, 2009.
2. Beginning XNA 3.0 Game Programming: From Novice to Professional, Alexandre
Santos Lobao, Bruno Pereira Evangelista, Antonio Leal de Farias , Riemer
Grootjans, A Press, 2009
REFERENCES
1. Learning XNA 4.0: Game Development for the PC, Xbox 360, and Windows
Phone 7, Aaron Reed, O’Reilly, 2011.
2. Microsoft XNA Game Studio Creator's Guide, Second Edition, Stephen Cawood
and Pat McGee, Mc. Graw Hill, New York, 2009.
3. http://www.riemers.net/eng/Tutorials/xnacsharp.php
198
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS75) COMPUTER GRAPHICS AND ANIMATION
(Elective-I)
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Analyze the basics of graphics and its representations.
• Identify various 2D and 3D transformation techniques used in graphics
• Understand the principles of Visible Surface Detection Methods.
• Discuss the animation design sequence.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Demonstrate the basic algorithms to draw the object
• Differentiate 2D and 3D Transformations and Viewing.
• Apply the surface detection techniques to eliminate hidden surfaces of an object
• Create animation sequences of an object.
UNIT I: INTRODUCTION
Introduction: Usage of Graphics and their applications, Presentation Graphics-Computer
Aided Design- Computer Art- Entertainment- Education and Training-Visualization- Image
Processing- Graphical User Interfaces
Over view of Graphics systems: Video Display Devices- Raster Scan systems-random scan
systems-Graphics monitors and workstations-Input devices.
Output primitives: Points and Lines-Line Drawing Algorithms-Line function- Mid Point Circle
Generating Algorithm- Mid Point Ellipse Generating Algorithm.
Filled Area Primitives: Boundary Fill Algorithm, Flood Fill Algorithm
UNIT II :TWO DIMENSIONAL GEOMETRICALTRANSFORMATION AND VIEWING
Two dimensional geometric transformations - Matrix representations and homogeneous
coordinates, composite transformations; Two dimensional viewing - viewing pipeline,
viewing coordinate reference frame; widow-to-viewport coordinate transformation, Cohen –
Sutherland line clipping algorithm and Southerland-Hodgeman polygon clipping algorithm.
UNIT III:THREE DIMENSIONAL GEOMETRICAL TRANSFORMATION, VIEWING AND
OBJECT REPRESENTATION
Three dimensional geometric and modeling transformations -Translation,Rotation, Scaling,
composite transformations; Three dimensional viewing - viewing pipeline, viewing
coordinates, Projections, Clipping.
Three dimensional object representations - Polygon surfaces - Polygon tables - Plane
equations - Polygon meshes; Curved Lines and surfaces, Quadratic surfaces; Blobby
objects; Spline representations
199
UNIT IV :VISIBLE SURFACE DETECTION ALGORITHMS
Visible surface detection methods: Back-Face Detection Method, Depth buffer, Scan line,
Depth sorting, BSP-tree methods, Area sub-division and Octree methods.
UNIT V :COMPUTER ANIMATION
Design of Animation Sequence, General computer Animation functions, Raster animation,
Computer animation languages, key frame systems, motion specifications
TEXT BOOKS
1. Computer Graphics C Version by Donald Hearn & M. Pauline Baker, Pearson
Education, New Delhi, 2004.
2. “Computer Graphics principles &practice”, second edition in c, foley, VanDam,
Feiner and Hughes, Pearson Education
REFERENCES
1. “Procedural elements for Computer Graphics”, David Rogers, Tata McGraw
hill,2nd edition
2. “Computer Graphics”, Steven Harington, TMH
3. “Principles of interactive Computer Graphics” Neuman and sproul, TMH
200
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS76) INTRODUCTION TO INTERNET OF THINGS
(Elective – II)
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course objectives:
• Introduce the current vision of the Internet of Things and its impact on the world.
• To provide an appreciation for the standardization of IoT protocols that is necessary
for IoT to become reality.
• Implement basic IoT applications in real time scenario
Course outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Understand the working of Internet of things and Domain specific IoT.
• Identify and interpret design methodology of IoT platform.
• Illustrate the interfacing of Raspberry Pi on embedded board through Python.
• Examine the Networking model of IoT
UNIT-I:Introduction to Internet of Things:
Introduction, physical design of IoT, logical design of IoT-functional blocks,
communicational models, communication APIs, IoT enabling technologies, IoT levels,
deployment templates.
UNIT-II:Domain Specific IoTs :
Introduction, home automation, cities, environment, energy, retail, logistics, agriculture,
industry.
UNIT-III:Developing Internet of Things:
Introduction, IoT design methodology, Case Study on IoT System for Weather Monitoring,
Motivation for using Python.
UNIT-IV:Hardware and Software for IoT:
Logical design using Python-data types, control flow, functions, packages, file handling,
classes, Python packages of Interests for IoT
UNIT-V: IPv6 for smart object networks and the internet of the things:
Introduction, The depletion of the IPv4 address space, NAT : A solution to IPv4 Address
Exhaustion, Architectural discussion.
201
Text Books
1. Arshdeep Bahga, Vijay Madisetti, Internet of Things: A hands on approach, 2014,
VPT publishers;
2. Jean- Philippe Vasseur, Adam Dunkels , Interconnecting Smart Objects with IP
:The Next Internet ,2010,Morgan Kaufmann Publishers
Reference Books
1. Cuno Pfister , Getting Started with the Internet of Things 2011,OREILLY
2. Charalampos Doukas, Building Internet of Things With the Arduino: Volume 1 ,
2012 ,Create Space Independent Publishing Platform
3. Adrian Mcewen, Hakin Cassimally Designing the Internet of Things 2015, Wiley.
4. Olivier Hersent, David Boswarthick, Omar Elloumi, The Internet of Things: Key
Applications and Protocols Wiley-Blackwell 2012.
Journal Papers:
1. Keoh, Sye Loong, Sahoo Subhendu Kumar, and Hannes Tschofenig. "Securing
the internet of things: A standardization perspective." Internet of Things Journal,
IEEE 1.3 (2014): 265-275.
2. Ortiz, Antonio M., et al. "The cluster between internet of things and social
networks: Review and research challenges." Internet of Things Journal, IEEE 1.3
(2014): 206-215.
202
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS77) BUILDING ENTERPRISE APPLICATIONS
(Elective-II)
(Common to CSE)
Course Objectives:
• Expose the data model in a web application and define the Enterprise Architect’s
roles, responsibilities and deliverables.
• Demonstrate non-functional requirements (NFRs) and describe common problems
and solutions.
• Translate business requirements into architecture.
• Apply various evaluation criteria to choosing architectural elements and patterns,
tools, servers and frameworks.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Understand different strategies and technologies for developing cross platform,
distributed, object-oriented applications in Java
• Discuss issues involved in building robust e-business systems in Java
• Develop the Enterprise Java applications using J2EE architecture.
• Explain about security threats and mechanisms.
UNIT-I
Introduction: Challenges of Enterprise Application Development, The Platform for
Enterprise Solutions, J2EE Application Scenarios: Multitier Application Scenario, Stand-
Alone Client Scenario, Web-Centric Application Scenario, Business-to-Business Scenario,
MVC Architecture
J2EE Platform Technologies: Component Technologies, Platform Roles and Services,
Service Technologies, Communication technologies.
UNIT –II
Client Tier: Requirements and constraints- Operating Environment, Deployment, Web
clients-protocols, Content format, types of web clients, EJB Clients, Enterprise information
system clients
Web Tier: Web Applications and Web Containers, Dynamic content creation,
Internationalization and Localization, Application Designs, Application Migration
Unit –III
Enterprise Java beans Tier: Business Logic, Enterprise Beans as J2EE Business Objects,
Session Beans, and Design Guidelines
Enterprise Information System Tier: Enterprise Information System Capabilities and
Limitations.
Enterprise Information System Integration Scenarios, Relational Database Management
System Access,
203
Application Component Provider Tasks, Application Programming Model.
Unit –IV
Transaction Management : Properties of Transactions, J2EE Platform Transactions,
Scenarios,JTA Transactions ,Transactions in Applets and Application Clients ,Transactions
in Web Components ,Transactions in Enterprise Information systems
Unit –V
Security : Security Threats and Mechanisms, Authentication-Protection ,Authentication
Mechanisms , Authentication Call Patterns , Auto-Registration, Exposing Authentication
Boundaries with References , Authorization.
Text Books :
1. Designing Enterprise Applications with the Java TM 2 Platform, Enterprise Edition
, Nicholas Kassem and the Enterprise Team Version
2. Inderjeet Singh, Beth Stearns, Mark Johnson the Enterprise Team “Designing
Enterprise Applications with the J2EE Platform, Second Edition”.
References:
1. Anubhav Pradhan, Satheesha B. Nanjappa, Senthil K.Nallasamy and Veerakumar
Esakimuthu “Raising Enterprise Applications”.
2. Tom Valesky, 'Enterprise JAVA Beans', Pearson Education, 2002.
3. Mastering Enterprise Java Beans and the JAVA ™ 2 platform, Enterprise Edition,
ED Roman, Wiley Publications.
4. J2EE Connector Architecture and Enterprise Application Integration By Rahul
Sharma, Beth Stearns, Tony Ng
204
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS78) ADVANCED DATABASES
(Elective – II)
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives
• Introducing Distributed Database Management System and its Design issues
• Exploring several algorithms for processing queries and be able to use them
• Describe the methods to translate complex conceptual data models into logical and
Physical database designs
• Demonstrating query optimization and its algorithms
• Enumerating the concepts behind distributed transaction processing
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Understand data processing and architecture of Distributed database.
• Apply Partitioning and Fragmentation techniques to the data distributed across the
network
• Design and optimize query processing strategies on distributed fragments
• Explain transaction processing and concurrency control in distributed databases
UNIT-1: Introduction:
Distributed Data Processing, Distributed Database System, Promises of DDBSs,
Problem areas.
UNIT-II: Distributed DBMS Architecture:
Architectural Models for Distributed DBMS, DDMBS Architecture.
Distributed Database Design: Alternative Design Strategies, Distribution Design issues,
Fragmentation, Allocation.
UNIT-III: Query Processing and decomposition:
Query Processing Objectives, Characterization of query
processors, layers of query processing, query decomposition, Localization of distributed
data.
UNIT-IV: Distributed query Optimization:
Query optimization, centralized query optimization, Distributed query optimization
algorithms.
UNIT-V: Transaction Management
Definition, properties of transaction, types of transactions.
205
Distributed concurrency control: Serializability, concurrency control Mechanisms &
Algorithms, Time stamped & Optimistic concurrency control Algorithms, Deadlock
Management.
Text Books:
1. M.Tamer OZSU and Patuck Valduriez: Principles of Distributed Database Systems,
Pearson Edn. Asia, 2001.
2. Stefano Ceri and Willipse Pelagatti: Distributed Databases, McGraw Hill.
Reference Books:
1. Henry F Korth, A Silberchatz and Sudershan : Database System Concepts, MGH
2. Raghuramakrishnan and Johhanes Gehrke: Database Management Systems,MGH
3. M. Stonebraker, Readings in Database Systems, 2nd Edition, Morgan Kauffman, 1993
206
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5IT77) CLOUD COMPUTING
(Elective - II)
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Understand the Virtualization paradigms
• Learn the Cloud Computing fundamentals and its importance to various
organizations.
• Analyze the concepts of IaaS, PaaS, SaaS, Public and Private Clouds.
• Develop applications in cloud security.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Understand the virtualization concepts, key technologies, strengths, and limitations
of cloud computing
• Explain the architecture and infrastructure of cloud computing-SaaS, PaaS, IaaS,
public cloud, private cloud, hybrid cloud.
• Analyze the security, privacy, and interoperability of cloud computing.
• Identify problems, analyze, and evaluate cloud computing solutions.
.
UNIT I
Introduction to Virtualization: Objectives of virtualization, history of virtualization,
benefits of virtualized technology, the virtual service desk, what can be virtualized, related
forms of computing, cloud computing, software as a service – SaaS, grid computing, utility
computing, virtualization processes.
UNIT II
Virtualization Technologies-I:ubuntu (server edition), altiris, windows, server, software
virtualization, vmware, intel virtualization, red hat virtualization, softgrid application, Linux
virtualization, desktop virtualization, hardware virtualization, resource virtualization,
processor virtualization, application virtualization.
Virtualization Technologies-II: Storage virtualization, virtualization density, para-
virtualization, OS virtualization, virtualization software, data storage virtualization, Intel
virtualization technology, thinstall virtualization suite, net framework virtualization, windows
207
virtualization on fedora, storage virtualization technologies, virtualization level, security
monitoring and virtualization, oracle virtualization.
UNIT III
Introduction to Cloud Computing: Cloud Introduction and overview- Components,
Infrastructure and Services, Why Use Cloud Computing, Benefits and Limitations, Cloud
Application Architectures, Cloud Infrastructure Models, Cloud Computing Technology-
Hardware & Software Infrastructure
Cloud Computing Architecture: Requirements, Introduction to Cloud Computing
Architecture, various kinds of Cloud Computing Architecture, Grid Computing,
Transactional Computing, On Demand Computing, and Distributed Computing.
UNIT IV
Infrastructure as a Service (IAAS) & Platform and Software as a Service (PAAS /
SAAS)
Virtual machines provisioning and Migration services, On the Management of Virtual
machines for Cloud Infrastructures, Enhancing Cloud Computing Environments using a
cluster as a Service, Secure Distributed Data Storage in Cloud Computing. Aneka, Comet
Cloud, T-Systems’, Workflow Engine for Clouds, Understanding Scientific Applications for
Cloud Environments.
UNIT V
Security: Security issues in Cloud Computing - Data Security, Network Security, and Host
Security
Cloud computing security challenges, Cloud computing security architecture, Cloud
computing life cycle issues
Disaster Recovery: Disaster Recovery Planning, Disasters in the Cloud, Disaster
Management. Scaling a Cloud Infrastructure- Capacity Planning, Cloud Scale.
Case Studies: Amazon S3, Google APP Engine, IBM Clouds, Oracle OBIEE
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Cloud Computing Virtualization Specialist Complete Certification Kit - Study Guide
Book, Ivanka Menken Gerard Blokdijk, 2009.
2. Cloud Computing: Principles and Paradigms by RajkumarBuyya, James Broberg
and Andrzej M. Goscinski, Wiley, 2011.
3. Cloud Security: A Comprehensive Guide to Secure Cloud Computing By Ronald
L. Krutz, Russell Dean Vines
REFERENCES:
1. Cloud Computing: A Practical Aprroach, Anthony T.Velte, TobeJ.Velte, Robert
Elsenpeter, Publication Person Education, 2009
2. Storage Virtualization: Technologies for Simplifying Data Storage and
Management, Tom Clark,Addison-Wesley, 2005
208
3. Cloud Computing Technologies and Strategies of the Ubiquitous Data Center,
Curtis Franklin Jr.Brian J.S. Chee, 2010.
4. Introduction to Cloud Computing: Business & Technology, Timothy Chou,2009
209
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5CS57) NETWORK SECURITY LABORATORY
(Common to CSE)
Course Objectives (COs):
• Outline Cryptographic Algorithms.
Identify the need of evaluating the performance of various Cryptographic
Algorithms
• Apply various types of attacks.
• Discuss proxy based security protocols.
Course Outcomes (COs):
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
• Implement Symmetric & Asymmetric Cryptographic Algorithms
• Evaluate the performance of Cryptographic Algorithms
• Identify and resolve attacks in the network.
• Demonstrate Proxy based Security Protocols
Week 1& 2: Understanding of Classical cryptographic Algorithm and Implementation of the
same in C or C++.
Week 3:Implementation of DES and AES.
Week 4:Implementation of RSA, ECC and Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange.
Week 5:Performance Evaluation of Various Cryptographic Algorithms.
Week 6:Working with Sniffers for Monitoring network communication.
Week 7:Implementation of SHA-512, SSL & TLS.
Week 8&9: Using IP TABLES on Linux and setting the Filtering rules.
Week 10: Understanding the buffer overflow and format string attacks.
Week 11&12: Implementation of proxy based security protocols in C or C++ with features
like Confidentiality, Integrity and Authentication.
REFERENCES:
http://linuxcommand.org/man_pages/openssl1.html
http://www.openssl.org/docs/apps/openssl.html
http://www.queen.clara.net/pgp/art3.html
http://www.ccs.oml.gov/~hongo/mail/resourses/contrib/gpg-howto/gpg-howto.html
http://netfiles.uiuc.edu/ehowes/www/gpg/pg-com-0.html
http://www.ethereal.com/docs/user-guide/
210
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- I Se L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5CS58)BIG DATA ANALYTICS LABORATORY
(Common to CSE)
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• Explore and understand various HDFS commands in Hadoop environment
• Understand the concept of Hadoop framework and its components
• Explore various Big Data tools for data processing
• Analyse data using Visualization tools
COURSE OUTCOMES:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Explore various HDFS commands on Hadoop file system
• Illustrate Map Reduce programming framework on large data sets in a
distributed environment
• Demonstrate different Big Data tools such as HIVE, PIG, and SQOOP
• Extract large data sets to perform visualization and data analysis tasks
1. HDFS(Storage)
A. Hadoop Storage File system
Your first objective is to create a directory structure in HDFS using hdfs commans . Create
the local files using linux commands and should move the files to HDFS directory that
allows loading of files into cluster to process the data and can do vice versa .
1. Write a command to create the directory structure in HDFS.
2. Write a Command to move file from local unix/linux machine to HDFS cluster.
B. Viewing Data Contents, Files and Directory
Try to perform these simple steps:
1. Write HDFS command Look at the HDFS files and directory of under your Hadoop
cluster.
211
2. Write HDFS command to see contents of files which are present in Hadoop cluster.
C.Getting Files data from the Hadoop Cluster to Local Disk.:
1. Find out HDFS command to take file from HDFS to local file system.
If we want process any data first should move into Hadoop cluster using HDFS commands.
All files storage in Haddoop cluster will be using HDFS .
Lab Instructions:
Your objective is to use all HDFS commands to move in and out to hadoop cluster for
process data.
2. Map Reduce Programming (Processing data) .
Hadoop Map-Reduce framework is developed using Java, but the framework allows you to
write programs in other languages as well.
1. Word Count
The word count problem is the most famous using map reduce program. Same thing we
can do with java but takes lot of time with huge file, in MR it will process less time even with
huge files. The objective is to count the frequency of words of a large text.
Lab Instructions:
1. Develop the word count map-reduce program to count the words with given input file.
Before you start, execute the prepare step, to load the data into HDFS.
2. Most Frequent Words Count
Use the output from the previous program to list the most frequent words with their counts.
Lab Instructions :
1. Use the same strategy of breaking the programs in three parts. Copy the files from the
previous exercise and use them as a starting point.
2. Load the data from the output by using third filter to load the files.
3. Data Processing Tool – Hive(NOSQL query based language)
Hive command line tool allows you to submit jobs via bash scripts.
Identifying properties of a data set :
We have a table 'user_data' that contains the following fields :
212
data_date : string
user_id : string
properties : string
The properties field is formatted as a series of attribute=value pairs.
Ex : Age=21;state=CA;gender=M;
Lab Instructions :
1. Create the table in HIVE using hive nosql based query .
2. Fill the table with sample data by using some sample data bases .
3. Write a program that produces a list of properties with minimum value(min_value),
largest value(max_value) and number of unique values. Before you start, execute the
prepare step to load the data into HDFS.
4. Generate a count per state.
Now that extracted the properties, calculate the number of records per state.
Lab Instructions :
1. Write a program that lists the states and their count from the data input.
5. Data Processing Tool – Pig(Latin based scripting lang)
Pig command line tool like the Hive allows you to submit jobs via bash scripts.
A. Simple Logs
We have a set of log files and need to create a job that runs every hour and perform
some calculations.
The log files are delimited by a 'tab' character and have the following fields:
• site
• hour_of_day
• page_views
• data_date
The log files are located on the prepare folder. Load them in HDFS at data/pig/simple_logs
folder and use them as the input.
Important: In order to load tab delimited files use pigStorage('\u0001').
Lab Instructions:
Create a program to :
1. Calculate the total views per hour per day.
2. Calculate the total views per day.
3. Calculate the total counts of each hour across all days.
4. We can write word count script by passing text file as input
6. SQOOP
213
It is used to import and export data from SQL to HDFS and Vice versa.
Before processing any data first need to import data into HDFS. As of now seen importing
files into HDFS but using sqoop tool we can import SQL table data into hive table.
1. Create table in HIVE using hive query language .
2. Import the sql table data into hive using sqoop tool .
3. Export hive table data into local machine and into SQL .
7. Programs on Data Visualization Techniques.
214
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS18) PREDICTIVE ANALYTICS
(Common to CSE and IT)
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
COURSE OUTCOMES:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply prediction modeling techniques - classification, regression, and clustering
• Develop the knowledge, skill, and competences.
• Analyze the time series methods, forecasting and feature extraction.
• Build the mechanism for working with documents
Unit I
Introduction to Predictive Analytics & Linear Regression (NOS 2101):
What and Why Analytics, Introduction to Tools and Environment, Application of Modelling in
Business, Databases & Types of data and variables, Data Modelling Techniques, Missing
imputations etc.
Need for Business Modelling, Regression – Concepts, Blue property-assumptions-Least
Square Estimation, Variable Rationalization and Model Building etc.
Unit II
Logistic Regression (NOS 2101):
Model Theory, Model fit Statistics, Model Conclusion, Analytics applications to various
Business Domains etc.
Regression Vs Segmentation – Supervised and Unsupervised Learning, Tree Building –
Regression, Classification, Overfitting, Pruning and complexity, Multiple Decision Trees
etc.,
Unit III
Objective Segmentation(NOS 2101):
215
Regression Vs Segmentation – Supervised and Unsupervised Learning Tree Building –
Regression, Classification, Overfitting, pruning and complexity, Multiple Decision Trees
etc.,
Develop Knowledge, skill and competences (NOS 9005)
Introduction to knowledge skills & competences, Training & Development, Learning &
Development, Policies and Record keeping,etc.
Unit IV
Time Series Methods / Forecasting, Feature Extraction (NOS 2101):
Arima, Measures of Forecast Accuracy, STL approach, Extract features from generated
model as Height, Average, Energy etc and Analyze for prediction.
Project
Unit V
Working with Documents (NOS 0703):
Standard Operating Procedures for documentation and Knowledge Sharing, Defining
purpose and scope documents, Understanding Structure of documents – case studies,
articles, white papers, technical reports, minutes of meeting etc., Style and format,
Intellectual Property and copyright, Document preparation tools – Visio, Power point, word,
Excel etc., Version control, Accessing and updating corporate knowledge base, Peer
review and feedback.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Student’s Handbook for Associate Analytics – III.
REFERENCES:
1. Gareth James . Daniela Witten . Trevor Hastie Robert Tibshirani. An Introduction
to Statistical Learning with Applications in R
216
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS79) SEMANTIC WEB AND SOCIAL NETWORKS
(Elective –III)
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Explore and understand the concepts to represent knowledge.
• Discuss various Ontology description languages
• Illustrate semantic web services, methods and tools to develop ontology.
• Outline social web and related communities
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Identify and debate on various description languages in semantic web.
• Analyze vocabulary, properties and characteristics to annotate the requirements of
semantic web languages.
• Apply ontology methods and tools to represent knowledge in the form of ontology.
• Predict human behavior in social web and related communities in visualizing social
networks.
UNIT 1: The Future of the Internet: Introduction, The Syntactic web, The Semantic Web,
Ontology in Computer Science: Defining the term Ontology, Taxonomies versus
Ontologies, Thesauri versus Ontologies, Classifying Ontologies, Web Ontology Description
Languages, Ontologies, Categories and Intelligence, Knowledge Representation in
Description Language: Introduction, The family of Attributive languages, Inference
Problems.
UNIT II: RDF and RDF Schema: Introduction, XML Essentials, RDF, RDF Schema,
Summary of the RDF/RDF Schema Vocabulary, OWL: Introduction, Requirements for Web
Ontology Description Languages, Header Information, Versioning and Annotation
Properties, Datatype and Object Properties, Property Characteristics, Classes, Individuals,
Summary of the OWL Vocabulary.
UNIT III: Rule Languages: Introduction, Usage Scenarios for Rule Languages, Semantic
Web Services: Web Service Essentials, OWL-S Service Ontology, Methods for Ontology
Development, Ontology Sources: Metadata, Upper Ontologies, Semantic Web and
Software Tools: Metadata and Ontology Editors.
217
UNIT IV: Introduction to the Semantic Web and Social Networks: Limitations of the
Semantic Web, Development of the Semantic Web, The Emergence of the Social Web,
Social Network Analysis: What is social network Analysis, Development of Social Network
Analysis, Key Concepts and Measures in Network Analysis.
UNIT V: Electronic Sources for Network Analysis: Electronic Discussion Networks, Blogs
and online Communities, Web based Networks, Building Semantic Web Applications with
Social Network Features.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Semantic Web: Concepts, Techniques and Applications – Karin K. Breitman,
Marco Antonio Casanova, Walter Truszkowski, Springer, 2007.
2. Social Networks and the Semantic Web – Peter Mika, Springer, 2007.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Semantic Web Technologies ,Trends and Research in Ontology Based Systems,
J.Davies,Rudi Studer,Paul Warren,JohnWiley&Sons.
2. Semantic Web and Semantic Web Services -Liyang LuChapman and Hall/CRC
Publishers,(Taylor & Francis Group)
218
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5IT82) INFORMATION SECURITY ASSESSMENT&AUDITS
(SECURITY ANALYST-II)
(Elective –III)
(Common to CSE and IT)
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
• To introduce the technology and fundamentals of Information Security and
performance metrics
• To introduce Security audit, reporting
• To introduce Security Vulnerability and Vulnerability Assessments
• To introduce Information Security Risk and Configuration Management
COURSE OUTCOMES:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Outline the fundamentals of Information Security Metrics and Audit
• Identify the areas for security auditing, Perform security auditing and report the
information
• Illustrate Vulnerability Management and provide solutions
• Summarize Risk treatment, Management and Provide control Policies for
Configuration Management
Unit- I
Information Security Performance Metrics and Audit:
Security Metrics and Reporting, Common Issues and Variances of Performance Metrics,
Introduction to Security Audit, Servers and Storage devices, Infrastructure and Networks ,
Communication Routes, Information Security Methodologies(Black-box , White- box,Grey-
box), Phases of Information Security Audit and Strategies, Ethics of an Information Security
Auditor etc.
219
Maintain Healthy, Safe & Secure Working environment(NOS 9003).
Unit-II
Information Security Audit Tasks, Reports and Post Auditing Actions:
Pre-audit checklist, InformationGathering, Vulnerability Analysis, External Security Audit,
Internet Network Security Audit, Firewall Security Audit, IDS Security Auditing, Social
Engineering Security Auditing, Web Application Security Auditing, Information Security
Audit Deliverables &Writing Report, Result Analysis, Post Auditing Actions, Report
Retention etc.
Provide Data/Information in Standard formats (NOS 9004).
Unit-III:
Vulnerability Management:
Information Security Vulnerabilities – Threats and Vulnerabilities, Human-based Social
Engineering, Computer-based Social Engineering,Social Media Countermeasures,
Vulnerability Management- Vulnerability Scanning, Testing, Threat management,
Remediation etc.
UNIT-IV
Information Security Assessments:
Vulnerability Assessment, Classification, Types of Vulnerability Assessment, Vulnerability
Assessment Phases, Vulnerability Analysis Stages, Characteristics of a Good Vulnerability
Assessment Solutions & Considerations, Vulnerability Assessment Reports-Tools and
choosing a right Tool, Information Security Risk Assessment, Risk Treatment, Residual
Risk, Risk Acceptance, Risk Management Feedback Loops etc.
UNIT-V
Configuration Reviews:
Introduction to Configuration Management, Configuration Management requirements-Plan-
Control, Development of configuration Control Policies, Testing Configuration Management
etc.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Assessing Information Security (strategies, tactics, logic and framework) by A
Vladimirov, K.Gavrilenko, and A.Michajlowski
2. “The Art of Computer Virus Research and Defense by Peter Szor”.
REFERENCES:
1. https://www.sans.org/reading-room/whitepapers/threats/implementing-
vulnerability-magament-process-34180
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-40-Ver2/SP800-40v2.pdf
220
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS80) BIO INFORMATICS
(Elective-III)
(Common to CSE)
Course Objectives:
The course introduces undergraduate students to the emerging interdisciplinary field of
Bioinformatics, combining elements of the Computational Sciences with the Biological
Sciences. In this course,
• The student will be able to understand basic concepts of internet & network
protocols and how the concepts of computer sciences relate to problems in
biological sciences.
• The students will be able to understand the scope, basic concepts of
Bioinformatics, Biological information resources and Retrieval System
• Emphasis would be laid on understanding Scientific Databases & Algorithms,
Sequence Analysis and Dynamic Programming applicable to Modern Biology
• The students will have sufficient understanding of Biological databases and their
types
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Understand the contents and properties of the most important terms like bio-
informatically databases, Bioinformatics, DNA, Elementary commands of retrieval
system
• Explain the various sequencing methods, sequencing algorithms, Multiple
sequence alignment
• Analyze genes, genomes and gene expression and apply the major steps in pair
wise and multiple sequence alignment, build the principle for, and execute pair wise
sequence alignment by dynamic programming
• Discuss on Biological databases, Bio Chemical databases and utility of this course
content in real world application.
UNIT I
Introduction to Bioinformatics: Scope of Bioinformatics, History of Bioinformatics; Biological
information resources and retrieval system Elementary commands and protocols, ftp,
telnet, http
UNIT II
Basic Sequencing: DNA mapping and sequencing , Map Alignment , sequencing methods
like Shotgun and Sanger method
221
UNIT III
Sequencing Alignment and Dynamic Programming: BLAST, Heuristic Alignment algorithms
, global sequence alignments-Needleman Wunsch algorithm, Smith-Waterman algorithm-
Local sequence alignments
UNIT IV
Evolutionary Trees and Phylogeny: Multiple sequence alignment and phylogenetic analysis.
UNIT V
Databases: Introduction to Biological databases, Organization and management of
databases, Structure databases- PDB(Protein Data Bank), Molecular modeling
databases(MMDB),Primary databases NCBL,EMBL,DDBJ, Secondary Databases-
Swissprot, KEGG, Bio Chemical databases- KEGG, BRENDA, WIT, EXPASY
TEXT BOOKS
1. Bioinformatics Basics, Applications in Biological Science and Medicine by
Hooman H. Rashidi and Lukas K.buehler CAC Press 2000
2. Algorithms on strings trees and sequences Dan Gusfield, Cambridge University
Press 1997
REFERENCES
1. Bioinformatics: David Mount 2000,CSH Publications
2. Bioinformatics: A machine Learning Approach P.Baldi. S.Brunak, MIT Press
1988
3. Developing Bioinformatics Computer Skills", Gibas C, Jambeck P
4. Bioinformatics: A Practical Guide to the Analysis of Genes and Proteins" ,
Baxevanis AD, Ouellette BFF (eds):
222
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS82) SOFTWARE PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Elective –III
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• To Identify and Discuss the conventional and contemporary software project
management principles.
• The ability to assess and plan project schedule and assign resources.
• Apply an appropriate project development methodology among various alternating
Processes.
• Identify project risks, understand the responsibilities, monitor and track project
deadlines and the capability to work in a team environment.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Adapt the knowledge of managing, economics for conventional Vs modern software
projects and Sketch various artifacts sets for better understanding of software
development
• Utilize knowledge of process Workflows and Checkpoints to track the project
progress
• Identify the importance of Iterative Process Planning (WBS) and Process
Automation for a given specific software application
• Make use of extensive knowledge on Project Controls like seven core metrics and
understand Project Organizations and Responsibilities.
UNIT-I
Conventional Software Management: The waterfall model, conventional software
Management performance. Overview of Project Planning – Stepwise Project Planning.
Improving Software Economics: Reducing Software product size, improving software
processes, improving team effectiveness, improving automation, Achieving required quality,
peer inspections.
UNIT – II
The old way and the new way: The principles of conventional software Engineering,
principles of modern software management, transitioning to an iterative process.
Life cycle phases: Engineering and production stages, Inception, Elaboration, Construction,
Transition phases.
Artifacts of the process: The artifact sets, Management artifacts, Engineering artifacts,
programmatic artifacts.
223
UNIT – III
Work Flows of the process: Software process workflows, Iteration workflows.
Checkpoints of the process: Major mile stones, Minor Milestones, Periodic status
assessments.
Iterative Process Planning: Work breakdown structures, planning guidelines, cost and
schedule estimating, Iteration planning process, Pragmatic planning.
UNIT – IV
Process Automation: Automation Building blocks.
Project Control and Process instrumentation: The seven core Metrics, Management
indicators, quality indicators, life cycle expectations, pragmatic Software Metrics, Metrics
automation.
Tailoring the Process: Process discriminants.
UNIT – V
Project Organizations and Responsibilities:
Line-of-Business Organizations, Understanding Behavior – Organizational Behavior
Future Software Project Management: Modern Project Profiles, Next generation Software
economics, modern process transitions.
Emerging Trends in Project Management
Globalization Issues in Project management, import of the internet on project Management,
People Focused Process Models
TEXT BOOKS
1. Software Project Management, Walker Royce: Pearson Education, 2005.
2. Ramesh Gopalaswamy “ Managing and global Software Projects”, Tata Mc Graw
Hill,2003.
REFERENCES
1. Software Project Management, Bob Hughes and Mike Cotterell: Tata McGraw-Hill
Edition.
2. Software Project Management, Joel Henry, Pearson Education.
3. Software Project Management in practice, Pankaj Jalote, Pearson Education
.2005.
224
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS81) COGNITIVE SCIENCE
Elective – IV
(Common to CSE)
Course Objectives:
• Identify the basics of Cognitive Science with focus on acquisition, representation,
and use of knowledge by individual minds, brains, and machines, as well as
groups, institutions, and other social entities
• Analyze the mind and intelligence, embracing psychology, artificial intelligence,
neuroscience and linguistics
• Label the basics of cognitive Psychology.
• Relate the role of Neuro science in Cognitive field
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Describe the concepts and role of computers in Cognitive Science, Nature of
Artificial Intelligence, Psychology, Neuroscience, Language Acquisition,
Neuropsychology.
• Explain the philosophical and theoretical perspectives, Cognitive Architecture,
Cognitive Processes, mind organization, cognitive organization, Computation of
Cognitive Functioning at machines level.
• Analyze the Information Processing Models of the Mind, Strategies for Brain
mapping, and function of Nervous System.
• Demonstrate the use of neuroscience in cognitive domain in present industry and
familiarize with Cognitive function measurement tools, Robotics and Challenges
of neuroscience in cognitive domain in present industry.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO COGNITIVE SCIENCE
The Cognitive view –Some Fundamental Concepts – Computers in Cognitive Science –
Applied Cognitive Science – The Interdisciplinary Nature of Cognitive Science – Artificial
Intelligence: Knowledge representation -The Nature of Artificial Intelligence - Knowledge
Representation – Artificial Intelligence: Search, Control, and Learning
UNIT II COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY
Cognitive Psychology – The Architecture of the Mind - The Nature of Cognitive
Psychology- A Global View of The Cognitive Architecture- Propositional Representation-
Schematic Representation Cognitive Processes, Working Memory, and Attention- The
Acquisition of Skill- The Connectionist Approach to Cognitive Architecture 32
UNIT III COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE
225
Brain and Cognition Introduction to the Study of the Nervous System – Neural
Representation – Neuropsychology- Computational Neuroscience - The Organization of the
mind - Organization of Cognitive systems - Strategies for Brain mapping – A Case study:
Exploring mindreading
UNIT IV LANGUAGE ACQUISITION, SEMANTICS AND PROCESSINGMODELS
Language Acquisition: Milestones in Acquisition – Theoretical Perspectives- Semantics and
Cognitive Science – Meaning and Entailment – Reference – Sense – Cognitive and
Computational Models of Semantic Processing – Information Processing Models of the
Mind- Physical symbol systems and language of thought- Applying the Symbolic Paradigm-
Neural networks and distributed information processing- Neural network models of
Cognitive Processes
UNIT V HIGHER-LEVEL COGNITION
Reasoning – Decision Making – Computer Science and AI: Foundations & Robotics – New
Horizons - Dynamical systems and situated cognition- Challenges – Emotions and
Consciousness – Physical and Social Environments - Applications
Text Books:
1. Cognitive Science: An Introduction, Second Edition by Neil Stillings, Steven E. Weisler,
Christopher H. Chase and Mark H. Feinstein ,1995
2. Cognitive Science: An Introduction to the Science of the Mind José Luis Bermúdez,
Cambridge University Press, New York,2010
References:
1. Cognitive Psychology, Robert L. Solso, Otto H. MacLin and M. Kimberly MacLin, 2007,
Pearson Education
2. Cognitive Science: An Introduction to the Study of Mind (2006) by J. Friedenberg and G.
Silverman
3. How the mind works, Steven Pinker, 2009 6. Cognitive Science: An Interdisciplinary
Approach by Carolyn Panzer Sobel and Paul Li, 2013 7. Mind: Introduction to Cognitive
Science, Paul Thagard, 2nd Edition, MIT Press, 200
4.Wilson, Robert A., & Keil, Frank C. (eds.), The MIT Encyclopedia of the Cognitive
Sciences (MITECS), MIT Press, 2001 [Primary text; available on Cognet].
5. Sternberg, Robert J., Cognitive Psychology, 4th ed., Cengage Learning India, 2008
226
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- IISem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5IT76) INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SYSTEMS
(Elective-IV)
(Common to CSE and IT)
Course Objectives:
• Describe fundamentals of DBMS, Data warehouse and Digital libraries
• Discover various pre-processing techniques and searching and indexing
approaches in text mining
• Distinguish and differentiate various clustering approaches and study different
similarity measures
• Know about query languages and online IR system
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Understand the relationships between the Repository Systems
• Apply knowledge of data structures and indexing methods in information retrieval
Systems
• Implement clustering, searching techniques and algorithms on Information
systems
• Analyze clustering techniques and algorithms using evaluation measures
UNITI
Introduction: Definition, Objectives, Functional Overview, Relationship to DBMS, Digital
libraries and Data Warehouses. Information Retrieval System Capabilities, Search, Browse,
Miscellaneous.
UNIT II
Cataloguing and Indexing: Objectives, Indexing Process, Automatic Indexing, Information
Extraction. Data Structures: Introduction, Stemming Algorithms, Inverted file structures, N-
gram data structure, PAT data structure, Signature file structure, Hypertext data structure.
Automatic Indexing: Classes of automatic indexing, Statistical indexing, Natural language,
Concept indexing, Hypertext linkages.
UNIT III
Document and Term Clustering: Introduction, Thesaurus generation, Item clustering,
Hierarchy of clusters. User Search Techniques: Search statements and binding, Similarity
measures and ranking, Relevance feedback, Selective dissemination of information search,
weighted searches of Boolean systems, Searching the Internet and hypertext.
227
UNIT IV
Information Visualization: Introduction, Cognition and perception, Information
visualization technologies. Text Search Algorithms: Introduction, Software text search
algorithms, Hardware text search systems. Information System Evaluation: Introduction,
Measures used in system evaluation, Measurement example – TREC results.
UNIT V
Multimedia Information Retrieval, Models and Languages: Data Modelling, Query
Languages, Indexing and Searching.Libraries and Bibliographical systems, online IR
system, OPACs, Digital Libraries.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Information Storage and Retrieval systems Theory and Implementation Second
Edition
2. Modern Information RetrivalBy Ricardo Baeza-Yates, Pearson Education, 2007.
REFERENCES:
1. Information Retrieval: Algorithms and Heuristics by David A Grossman and
OphirFrider, 2nd Edition, Springer.
2. Information Retrieval Data Structures and Algorithms, Frakes, W.B., Ricardo
Baeza-Yates: Prentice Hall, 1992.
3. Modern Information RetrivalBy Yates Pearson Education.
4. Information Storage &Retieval By Robert Korfhage – John Wiley & Sons
5. Natural Language Processing and Information Retrieval, T.Siddiqui and
U.S.Tiwary, Oxford University Press.
228
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS83)SOFTWARE DEFINED NETWORKS
(Elective – IV)
(Common to CSE)
Course Objectives:
• This course provides a comprehensive introduction to Software Defined
Networking (SDN) and presents SDN in context with more familiar network
services and challenges
• It identifies the impact of SDN on traffic management and the potential for
network service growth
• It provides students with the basic concepts and explains the importance of
virtualization, particularly the impact of virtualization on servers and networks
• It also introduces students with the impact on service providers, legacy networks,
and network vendors.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Understand the concepts, Virtual and Physical Memory Mapping and Software
Defined Networking.
• Identify the design, implementation of SDN and Service providers of SDN.
• Describe the core issues of Open flow - Switch Specification, ports, and packet
processing pipeline.
• Demonstrate Enterprise Networks ,SDN and Transport Networks, SDN and
Optical Transport Networks
UNIT I:Introduction to Software Defined Networking
Virtualization, Virtual Memory, Virtual Memory Operation, Virtual and Physical Memory
Mapping,
Server Virtualization, Storage Virtualization, Software Defined Networking, Network
Limitations, Network Control Plane.
UNIT II:SDN Implementation:
Introduction, SDN Implementation, SDN Design, Separation of the Control and Data
Planes, Edge-Oriented Networking, SDN Operation, Service Providers and SDN
UNIT III
Openflow Introduction, Overview of the OpenFlow Switch Specification,OpenFlow
Ports,OpenFlow Packet-Processing Pipeline,OpenFlow Channel, Message
Handling,OpenFlow Channel Connections, Controller Modes, Auxiliary Connection Use for
Performance and Reliability, Flow Table Synchronization, Bundle Messages,OpenFlow
229
Configuration-and-Management Protocol, Remote Configuration and The OpenFlow
Conformance Testing Program
UNIT IV
SDN Controllers: Network Programmability, The Management Interface, The Application-
Network Divide Modern Programmatic Interfaces, Virtualization and Data Plane I/O,
Services Engineered Path Service Locations and Chaining.
UNIT V
SDN Evolution Introduction, SDN and Enterprise Networks, SDN and Transport Networks,
SDN and Optical Transport Networks, Increasing WAN Utilization with SDN,SDN Scalability
Issues, Controller Designs for Scalability ,Potential SDN Scalability Issues, Network Types,
SDN Management ,Load Adaptation.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Software Defined Networking: Design and Deployment, 1st Edition Patricia A.
Morrealeand James
M. AndersonCRC press.
2. SDN: Software Defined Networks Thomas D. Nadeau and Ken Gray Orielly media
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Software Defined Networking with OpenFlow by Siamak Azodolmolky wiley Publications
2. Software Defined Networks: A Comprehensive Approach by Paul Goransson, Chuck
BlackPublisher Morgan Kaufmann
3. Open Networking Foundation (ONF) Documents, https://www.opennetworking.org,
2015.
4. OpenFlow standards, http://www.openflow.org, 2015.
5. Online Reading Lists, including:
http://www.nec-labs.com/~lume/sdn-reading-list.html, 2015.
230
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech CSE- II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CS84) MULTI CORE TECHNOLOGIES
Elective – IV
(Common to CSE)
Course Objectives:
• Formulate the parallelism techniques
• Explain the cache memory hierarchy
• Explore the multi core architecture and techniques
• Understand the parallel programing for multi core systems
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course Students is able to:
• Identify the limitations of ILP and the need for multicore architectures
• Understand the concepts of high-performance computer architecture and various
synchronization primitives.
• Analyze Parallel programming for Shared Memory architecture using OpenMP
libraries.
• Implement and evaluate the parallelism techniques for the creation of efficient
multi core CPU programs.
UNIT-I
INTRODUCTION TO MULTIPROCESSORS AND SCALABILITY: Scalable design
principles – Principles of processor design – Instruction Level Parallelism, Thread level
parallelism. Parallel computer models –Symmetric and distributed shared memory
architectures – Performance Issues.
UNIT-II
Brief introduction to cache hierarchy and communication latency, Shared memory
multiprocessors, general architectures and the problem of cache coherence.
SYNCHRONIZATION PRIMITIVES: Atomic primitives; locks: TTS, ticket, array; barriers:
central and tree; performance implications in shared memory programs.
UNIT-III
MULTI-CORE ARCHITECTURES - Introduction to multi-core architectures -Software and
hardware multi-threading – SMT and CMP architectures –Design issues – Case studies –
Intel Multi-core architecture – SUN CMP architecture., issues involved into writing code for
multi-core architectures, development of programs for these architectures, program
optimizations techniques.
UNIT IV
PARALLEL PROGRAMMING: Fundamental concepts – Designing for threads –scheduling
- Threading and parallel programming constructs – Synchronization –Critical sections –
Deadlock. Threading, API's, OpenMP – Threading a loop – Thread overheads –
Performance issues – Library functions. Solutions to parallel programming problems – Data
races, deadlocks and live locks – Non-blocking algorithms – Memory and cache related
issues.
231
UNIT-V
CHIP MULTIPROCESSORS: Why CMP (Moore's law, wire delay); shared L2 Vs tiled CMP;
core complexity; power/performance; Snoopy coherence: invalidate vs. update, MSI, MESI,
MOESI, MOSI; performance trade-offs; pipelined snoopy bus design; Memory consistency
models: SC, PC, TSO, PSO, WO/WC, RC.
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Shameem Akhter and Jason Roberts, “Multi-core Programming”, Intel Press,
2006.
2. Michael J Quinn, Parallel programming in C with MPI and OpenMP, Tata Mcgraw
Hill, 2003.
REFERENCES:
1. John L. Hennessey and David A. Patterson, “Computer architecture – A
quantitative approach”, Morgan Kaufmann/Elsevier Publishers, 4th. Edition, 2007.
2. David E. Culler, Jaswinder Pal Singh, “Parallel computing architecture: A
hardware/ software approach”, Morgan Kaufmann/Elsevier Publishers, 1999.
3. Richard Y. Kain, “Advanced Computer Architecture a Systems Design Approach”,
PrenticeHall, 2011.
232
