SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/R15/R15EIE.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
Electronics and Instrumentation
Engineering
B.TECH. FOUR YEAR DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2015-2016)
VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous Institute, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
NBA Accreditation for CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT B.Tech. Programmes
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi, Affiliated to JNTUH
Recognized as “College with Potential for Excellence” by UGC
Vignana Jyothi Nagar, Pragathi Nagar, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500 090, TS, India.
Telephone No: 040-2304 2758/59/60, Fax: 040-23042761
E-mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
1
Vision and Mission of the Institute
VISION
To be a World Class University providing value-based education, conducting
interdisciplinary research in cutting edge technologies leading to sustainable socio-economic
development of the nation.
MISSION
➢ To produce technically competent and socially responsible engineers, managers and
entrepreneurs, who will be future ready.
➢ To involve students and faculty in innovative research projects linked with industry,
academic and research institutions in India and abroad.
➢ To use modern pedagogy for improving the teaching-learning process.
Vision and Mission of the Department
VISION
A resource center of academic excellence for imparting quality technical education,
meeting the need of students at National and International levels and imbibing strong ethical
values, to improve the standards of the society.
MISSION
➢ To impart quality education in the domain of Electronics and Instrumentation
Engineering by implementing learner centric processes.
➢ To provide industry specific best of breed laboratory practices to promote diverse
collaborative research for meeting the changing societal needs.
2
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS FOR B.TECH. PROGRAMME
(Applicable for Students admitted from the academic year 2015-2016)
1. Programmes of study
• The following four year B.Tech. degree programmes of study are offered at VNR
VJIET from the academic year 2017-2018.
Branch
Branch
Code
01 Civil Engineering
02 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
03 Mechanical Engineering
04 Electronics and Communication Engineering
05 Computer Science and Engineering
10 Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
12 Information Technology
24 Automobile Engineering
• ‘ENGLISH’ language is used as the medium of instruction in all the above
programmes.
1.1 Eligibility Criteria for Admission
The eligibility criteria for admission into engineering programmes shall be as mentioned
below:
• The candidate shall be an Indian National / NRI
• The candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st December of the
academic year for which the admissions are being conducted
3
• The candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or equivalent
as on the date of admission recognized by BIE, Telangana State
1.1.1 Seats in each programme in the Institution are classified into Category A and
Category B as per the G.Os.
Category – A Seats:
These seats shall be filled through counseling as per the rank in the Common
Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by the State Government and as per other
admission criteria laid down in the G.Os.
Category - B Seats:
These seats shall be filled by the Institute as per the G.Os issued by the State
Government from time to time.
1.1.2 Category: Lateral Entry
The candidate shall be admitted into the Third Semester, (2nd year, 1st semester)
based on the rank secured by the candidate in Engineering Common Entrance Test
(ECET (FDH)) by the Convener, ECET.
2. Distribution and Weights of Marks
i. The performance of a student in each semester shall be evaluated subject –wise with
a maximum of 100 marks for theory and 100 marks for practical subjects. In
addition, an Industry oriented mini-project, seminar, comprehensive viva-voce and
project work shall be evaluated for 100, 100, 100 and 200 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects, the distribution shall be 40 marks for Mid-term Evaluation and
60 marks for the Semester End Examination.
.
Mid-Term Evaluation (40 M):
Mid-term evaluation consists of mid-term examination (30 M) and assignment/test
(10 M).
➢ Mid-term examination (30 M):
• For theory subjects, two mid examinations shall be conducted in each semester
as per the academic calendar. Each mid examination shall be evaluated for 30
marks.
PART-A 3 X 2M = 6 M (one question from each UNIT)
PART-B 3 X 8 M = 24 M (three internal choice questions one from each UNIT
shall be given, the student has to answer one question from each UNIT)
4
• 80 % weightage for better mid-term examination and 20% weightage for the
other mid examination shall be used and calculated as the final mid-term
examination marks for each subject.
➢ Assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project (10 M):
• Two assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project shall be given to the
students covering the syllabus of First Mid and Second Mid Examinations
respectively and evaluated for 10 marks each.
• The first assignment shall be submitted before first mid examination and second
assignment shall be submitted before second mid examination.
• The average of 2 assignments shall be taken as final assignment marks.
iii. For practical subjects, there shall be a continuous evaluation during the semester
for 40 marks and 60 marks for semester end examination. Out of the 40 marks,
day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be evaluated for 10 marks, and 15 marks
for practical examination and 15 marks for laboratory record.
NOTE: 1. Any student who shall remain absent for any assignment/Mid-term
examination for any reason what so ever, shall be deemed to have secured
‘zero’ marks in the test/examination and no makeup test/examination shall be
conducted.
2. Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
iv. For the subjects having design and / or drawing, (such as Engineering Graphics,
Geometrical Drawing, Machine Drawing, Production Drawing Practice, and
Estimation etc.,) the distribution shall be 40 marks for internal evaluation (20 marks
for day-to-day work and 20 marks for Mid examination (the average of the two
examinations shall be taken into account) and 60 marks for semester end
examination.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
v. There shall be an industry-oriented mini-project, in collaboration with an industry
of their specialization, to be taken up during the summer vacation after III year II
semester examination. The industry oriented mini project shall be evaluated
during the IV year I semester. The industry oriented mini project shall be submitted
in report form and presented before a committee, which shall evaluate it for 100
marks. The committee shall consist of Head of the Department, the supervisor of
mini project and a senior faculty member of the department. There shall be no mid-
term assessment for industry oriented mini project. However, attending the
shadow engineering program or any such other programme, in lieu thereof, is
a pre-requisite for evaluating industry-oriented mini project.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
5
vi. There shall be a seminar presentation in IV year II semester. For the seminar, the
student shall collect the information on a specialized topic other than the project topic
and prepare a technical report, showing his understanding of the topic, and submit to
the department, which shall be evaluated by a departmental committee consisting of
the Head of the department, seminar supervisor and a senior faculty member. The
seminar shall be evaluated for 100 marks based on the report and presentation
made.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
vii. There shall be a comprehensive viva-voce in IV year II semester. The
comprehensive viva-voce shall be conducted by a committee consisting of the Head
of the Department and three senior faculty members of the Department after
submitting the filled and duly signed M.T.P record. The comprehensive viva-voce
is aimed to assess the student’s understanding in various subjects studied during the
B.Tech. programme of study. The comprehensive viva-voce shall be evaluated for
100 marks by the committee. There shall be no Mid-term assessment for the
comprehensive viva-voce.
Evaluation:-
a. Objective type examination – 50 marks. (Two hours test)
b. Committee evaluation – 50 marks.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s
viii. The project work shall be started by the student in the beginning of the IV year I
semester. Out of a total of 200 marks for the project work, 80 marks shall be for
mid-term evaluation and 120 marks for the semester end examination. The viva-
voce shall be conducted by a committee comprising an external examiner, Head of
the Department, the project supervisor and one senior faculty. The evaluation of
project work shall be conducted at the end of the IV year II Semester. The mid-term
evaluation shall be on the basis of three seminars conducted during the IV year
II semester for 80 marks by the committee consisting of Head of the
Department, project supervisor and senior faculty member of the Department.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s
3. Semester End Examination (60 M):
(a) Theory Courses
Question paper pattern for semester end examination (60 Marks) consists of two
sections i.e., Part-A and Part-B.
6
PART-A:
• Shall consist of 10 questions of 02 marks each. (10X2M = 20M)
• There shall be 02 questions from each unit.
• All the questions are compulsory.
PART-B:
• Shall consist of 05 questions of 08 marks each. (05X8M = 40M)
• There shall be 01 question from each unit with internal choice.
(b) Practical Courses
Each laboratory course shall be evaluated for 60 marks. The semester end
examination shall be conducted by two examiners, one Internal and other external
concerned with the subject of the same / other department / Industry. The evaluation
shall be as per the standard format.
(c) Supplementary Examinations
Supplementary examinations shall be conducted along with regular semester end
examinations. (During even semester regular examinations, supplementary
examinations of odd semester and during odd semester regular examinations,
supplementary examinations of even semester shall be conducted).
4. Attendance Requirements
i. A student shall be eligible to appear for the semester end examinations if he / she
acquire a minimum of 75% of attendance in aggregate of all the courses in that
semester.
ii. Shortage of attendance in aggregate up to 10% (attendance of 65% and above
and below 75%) in a semester may be condoned by the Institute Academic
Committee based on the rules prescribed by the Academic Council of the
Institute from time to time.
iii. A student shall not be permitted to write the semester end examination and not
promoted to the next semester unless he/she satisfies the attendance requirement of
the present semester, as applicable. He/She may seek re-admission for that
semester when offered next, if not promoted to the next semester.
iv. Shortage of attendance below 65% in aggregate shall in NO case be condoned.
v. Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned or who have not paid the
stipulated fee or who have not cleared any other due to the Institute in any semester
are not eligible to writer semester end examination of that semester.
7
5. Minimum Academic Requirements
The following academic requirements have to be satisfied in addition to the attendance
requirements mentioned in Regulation No.4.
i. A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic requirements
and earned the credits allotted to each theory or practical or design or drawing subject
or project, if he/she secures not less than 35% (21 out of 60 marks) of marks in
the semester end examination and a minimum of 40% of marks in the sum total
of the mid-term evaluation and semester end examination taken together.
ii. For promotion from II year II semester to III year I semester, the student needs to
have 50% of credits up to II year II semester which includes
➢ Two regular and two supplementary examinations of I B Tech. I semester.
➢ Two regular and one supplementary examinations of I B Tech. II semester
➢ One regular and one supplementary examinations of II year I semester.
➢ One regular examinations of II year II semester.
iii. For promotion from III year II semester to IV year I semester, the student needs to
have 50% of credits up to III year II semester which includes
➢ Three regular and three supplementary examinations of I B Tech. I semester.
➢ Three regular and two supplementary examinations of I B Tech. II semester
➢ Two regular and two supplementary examinations of II year I semester.
➢ Two regular and one supplementary examinations of II year II semester.
➢ One regular and one supplementary examination of III year I semester.
➢ One regular examination of III year II semester.
iv. A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 188 credits
and earn atleast 180 credits for the award of B.Tech. degree. The grade obtained
for the minimum credits shall be considered for the calculation of CGPA.
v. The students shall take one open elective subject each from the lists given in open
elective-1 and open elective-2. The selected subjects shall not belong to their own
branch.
vi. The student shall be qualified in two certificate courses during his/her course of
study.
vii. “Gender Sensitization” is compulsory value added course as per the JNTUH procds.
No. A1/2557/XXII SCAS/2015(2), dated 19.11.2015.
viii. Students who fail to earn atleast 180 credits as indicated in the course structure
within eight academic years counting from the year of their admission shall forfeit
their seat in B.Tech. programme and their admission stands cancelled.
8
6. Course pattern
i. The entire programme of study is of four academic years. All I, II, III and IV years
are of semester pattern.
ii. A student eligible to appear for the semester end examination in a subject, but absent
or has failed in the semester end examination may reappear for that subject in the
supplementary examination whenever conducted.
iii. When a student is detained due to shortage of attendance in any semester, he/she
shall seek readmission into that semester when it is offered next, with the academic
regulations of the batch into which he/she gets readmitted and has to obtain
the degree within 8 academic years from the year of his/her original admission.
iv. When a student is detained due to lack of credits in any year, he/she may be eligible
for promotion to the next year after obtaining the required number of credits and
fulfillment of the academic requirements.
7. Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. degree if he/she fulfils
the following academic regulations:
i. Pursued a programme of study for not less than four academic years and not
more than eight academic years.
ii. Registered for 188 credits and secured a minimum of 180 credits with compulsory
subjects as listed in the following Table.
Table: Compulsory Courses
S. No. Courses Particulars
1. All Practical Courses
2. Industry oriented mini project
3. Comprehensive Viva-Voce
4. Seminar
5. Project work
6. Engineering Graphics / Engineering Drawing / Machine Drawing
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award of the
degree within eight academic years from the year of their admission, shall forfeit their
seat in B.Tech. programme.
8. CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points in four year B.Tech. degree
programme is as follows:
• Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the total marks obtained in mid-term
and semester end examinations.
• Grades and Grade points are assigned as given below.
9
Description Grade Points(GP)
Marks Obtained Grade
of Grade Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A+ Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 A Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 B Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 C Fair 6.00
>=40 and <49.99 D Pass 5.00
<40 F Fail
--
Not Appeared the Exam(s) N Absent
• The student is eligible for the award of the B.Tech. degree with the class as
mentioned in the following table.
CGPA Class
>= 7.5 First Class with Distinction
>= 6.5 and <7.5 First Class
>= 5.5 and < 6.5 Second Class
>=5.0 and < 5.5 Pass Class
➢ Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
The performance of each student at the end of the each semester shall be indicated in
terms of SGPA. The SGPA shall be calculated as below:
10
𝐓𝐨𝐭𝐚𝐥 𝐞𝐚𝐫𝐧𝐞𝐝 𝐰𝐞𝐢𝐠𝐡𝐭𝐞𝐝 𝐠𝐫𝐚𝐝𝐞 𝐩𝐨𝐢𝐧𝐭𝐬 𝐢𝐧 𝐚 𝐬𝐞𝐦𝐞𝐬𝐭𝐞𝐫
𝐒𝐆𝐏𝐀=
𝐓𝐨𝐭𝐚𝐥 𝐜𝐫𝐞𝐝𝐢𝐭𝐬 𝐢𝐧 𝐚 𝐬𝐞𝐦𝐞𝐬𝐭𝐞𝐫
∑𝐩 𝐂 ∗𝐆
𝐒𝐆𝐏𝐀= 𝐢=𝟏 𝐢 𝐢
∑𝐩 𝐂
𝐢=𝟏 𝐢
Where Ci = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘i’
Gi = Grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to the subject ‘i’
i = 1,2,…..p represent the number of subjects in a particular semester
Note: SGPA is calculated and awarded for the candidates who pass all the courses in a
semester.
➢ Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA):
The CGPA of a student for the entire programme shall be calculated as given below:
• Assessment of the overall performance of a student shall be obtained by calculating
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA), which is weighted average of the grade
points obtained in all subjects during the course of study.
𝐓𝐨𝐭𝐚𝐥 𝐞𝐚𝐫𝐧𝐞𝐝 𝐰𝐞𝐢𝐠𝐡𝐭𝐞𝐝 𝐠𝐫𝐚𝐝𝐞 𝐩𝐨𝐢𝐧𝐭𝐬 𝐟𝐨𝐫 𝐭𝐡𝐞 𝐞𝐧𝐭𝐢𝐫𝐞 𝐩𝐫𝐨𝐠𝐫𝐚𝐦𝐦𝐞
𝐂𝐆𝐏𝐀=
𝐓𝐨𝐭𝐚𝐥 𝐜𝐫𝐞𝐝𝐢𝐭𝐬 𝐟𝐨𝐫 𝐭𝐡𝐞 𝐞𝐧𝐭𝐢𝐫𝐞 𝐩𝐫𝐨𝐠𝐫𝐚𝐦𝐦𝐞
∑𝐦 𝐂 ∗𝐆
𝐣=𝟏 𝐣 𝐣
𝐂𝐆𝐏𝐀=
∑𝐦 𝐂
𝐣=𝟏 𝐣
Where Cj = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘j’
Gj = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to that subject ‘j’
j = 1,2,….m represent the number of subjects of the entire program.
• Grade lower than D in any subject shall not be considered for CGPA calculation. The
CGPA shall be awarded only when the student acquires the required number of
credits prescribed for the program.
➢ Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
11
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
9. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to the Institute, or if any case of indiscipline is pending
against him, the result of the candidate may be withheld. The award or issue of the
Provisional Certificate and the Degree may also be withheld in such cases.
10. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or any other
academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and when they become
eligible. They have to take up Equivalent subjects, as substitute subjects in place of
repeated subjects as decided by the Chairman of the BoS of the respective departments.
He/She shall be admitted under the regulation of the batch in which he/she is readmitted.
11. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each semester shall be 90 instruction days.
12. There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission process.
13. The decision of the Institute Academic Committee shall be final in respect of
equivalent subjects for those students who are transferred from other colleges.
The transfer of students from other college or from this institute is to be approved
by the Governing Council of the Institute.
14. General
i. Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include “she”, “her”,
“hers”.
ii. The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
iii. In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arising in the above rules and
regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
iv. The Chairman Academic Council may change or amend any or all of the academic
regulations or syllabi at any time and the changes or amendments made shall be
applicable to all the students concerned with effect from the dates notified by the
College.
15. Academic Regulations for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2016-2017)
12
A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. degree if he/she fulfils
the following academic regulations:
i. Pursued a programme of study for not less than three academic years and not
more than six academic years.
ii. Registered for 138 credits and secured a minimum of 130 credits with compulsory
subjects as listed in the following Table.
Table: Compulsory Courses
S. No. Courses Particulars
1. All Practical Courses
2. Industry oriented mini project
3. Comprehensive Viva-Voce
4. Seminar
5. Project work
6. Engineering Graphics / Engineering Drawing / Machine Drawing
iii. A student who fails to earn a minimum of 130 credits as indicated in the course
structure within six academic years from the year of their admission shall forfeit
his/her seat in B.Tech. programme and his admission stands cancelled.
iv. The same attendance regulations are adopted as that of B.Tech. four year degree
course.
v. For promotion from III year II semester to IV year I semester, the student needs to
have 50% of credits up to III year II semester which includes
➢ Two regular and two supplementary examinations of II B Tech. I semester
➢ Two regular and one supplementary examinations of II B Tech. II semester
➢ One regular and one supplementary examinations of III B.Tech. I semester
➢ One regular of examinations of III year II semester
vi. All other regulations as applicable to B.Tech. four year degree course shall hold good
for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme).
16. Malpractice Rules
Disciplinary Action for Malpractices/Improper Conduct in Examinations
Nature of Malpractices/Improper
S.
conduct
Punishment
No.
If the candidate:
(a) Possesses or keeps accessible in Expulsion from the examination hall
1. examination hall, any paper, note book, and cancellation of the performance
programmable calculators, Cell phones, in that subject only.
pager, palm computers or any other form
13
of material concerned with or related to
the subject of the examination (theory or
practical) in which he is appearing but
has not made use of (material shall
include any marks on the body of the
candidate which can be used as an aid in
the subject of the examination)
(b)Gives assistance or guidance or Expulsion from the examination hall
receives it from any other candidate orally and cancellation of the performance
or by any other body language methods in that subject only of all the
or communicates through cell phones candidates involved. In case of an
with any candidate or persons in or outsider, he shall be handed over to
outside the exam hall in respect of any the police and a case is registered
matter. against him.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of the performance
in that subject and all other subjects
Has copied in the examination hall from the candidate has already appeared
any paper, book, programmable including practical examinations and
calculators, palm computers or any other project work and shall not be
2.
form of material relevant to the subject of permitted to appear for the
the examination (theory or practical) in remaining examinations of the
which the candidate is appearing. subjects of that Semester/year.
The Hall Ticket of the candidate is
to be cancelled.
The candidate who has
impersonated shall be expelled from
examination hall. The candidate is
also debarred and forfeits the seat.
Impersonates any other candidate in The performance of the original
3.
connection with the examination. candidate, who has been
impersonated, shall be cancelled in
all the subjects of the examination
(including practicals and project
work) already appeared and shall
not be allowed to appear for
14
examinations of the remaining
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class
work and all end semester
examinations. The continuation of
the course by the candidate is
subject to the academic regulations
in connection with forfeiture of seat.
If the imposter is an outsider, he
shall be handed over to the police
and a case is registered against him.
4.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of performance in
that subject and all the other
subjects the candidate has already
appeared including practical
examinations and project work and
Smuggles the Answer book or additional shall not be permitted for the
sheet or takes out or arranges to send out remaining examinations of the
the question paper during the subjects of that semester/year. The
examination or answer book or additional candidate is also debarred for two
sheet, during or after the examination. consecutive semesters from class
work and all end semester and
supplementary examinations The
continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the academic
regulations in connection with
forfeiture of seat.
Uses objectionable, abusive or offensive
language in the answer paper or in letters
5. Cancellation of the performance in
to the examiners or writes to the
that subject.
examiner requesting him to award pass
marks.
6. Refuses to obey the orders of the Chief In case of students of the college,
Superintendent/Assistant– they shall be expelled from
15
Superintendent / any officer on duty or examination halls and cancellation
misbehaves or creates disturbance of of their performance in that subject
any kind in and around the examination and all other subjects the
hall or organizes a walk out or instigates candidate(s) has (have) already
others to walk out, or threatens the appeared and shall not be permitted
officer-in charge or any person on duty in to appear for the remaining
or outside the examination hall of any examinations of the subjects of that
injury to his person or to any of his semester/year. The candidates are
relations whether by words, either spoken also debarred and they shall forfeit
or written or by signs or by visible their seats. In case of outsiders,
representation, assaults the officer-in- they shall be handed over to the
charge, or any person on duty in or police and a police case is
outside the examination hall or any of his registered against them.
relations, or indulges in any other act of
misconduct or mischief which result in
damage to or destruction of property in
the examination hall or any part of the
College campus or engages in any other
act which in the opinion of the officer on
duty amounts to use of unfair means or
misconduct or has the tendency to disrupt
the orderly conduct of the examination.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of performance in
that subject and all the other
subjects the candidate has already
appeared including practical
examinations and project work and
Leaves the exam hall taking away answer
shall not be permitted for the
script or intentionally tears of the script or
7. remaining examinations of the
any part thereof inside or outside the
subjects of that semester/year. The
examination hall.
candidate is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class
work and all end semester
examinations including
supplementary Examinations. The
continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the academic
16
regulations in connection with
forfeiture of seat.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of the performance
in that subject and all other subjects
Possesses any lethal weapon or firearm the candidate has already appeared
in the examination hall. including practical examinations and
8.
project work and shall not be
permitted for the remaining
examinations of the subjects of that
semester/year. The candidate is
also debarred and forfeits the seat.
If the student belongs to the college,
expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of the performance
in that subject and all other subjects
the candidate has already appeared
If student of the college, who is not a including practical examinations and
candidate for the particular examination project work and shall not be
or any person not connected with the permitted for the remaining
9.
college indulges in any malpractice or examinations of the subjects of that
improper conduct mentioned in any of semester/year. The candidate is
clauses 6 to 8. also debarred and forfeits the seat.
Person(s) who do not belong
to the College shall be handed over
to police and, a police case shall be
registered against them.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of the performance
Comes in a drunken condition to the in that subject and all other subjects
10.
examination hall. the candidate has already appeared
including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be
permitted for the remaining
17
examinations of the subjects of that
series of the semester/year.
Cancellation of the performance in
Copying detected on the basis of internal that subject and all other subjects
11. evidence, such as, during valuation or the candidate has appeared
during special scrutiny. including practical examinations and
project work of that semester/year.
If any malpractice is detected which is not
covered in the above clauses 1 to 11 shall
12. be reported to the academic council of
the Institute for further action to award
suitable punishment.
Malpractices identified by squad or special invigilators
Punishments shall be given to the candidates as per the above guidelines.
Malpractice identified at Spot center during valuation
The following procedure is to be followed in the case of malpractice cases detected during
valuation, scrutiny etc. at spot center.
1) Malpractice is detected at the spot valuation. The case is to be referred to the
malpractice committee. Malpractice committee shall meet and discuss/question the
candidate and based on the evidences, the committee shall recommend suitable
action on the candidate.
2) A notice is to be served to the candidate(s) involved, through the Principal, to his
address and to the candidate(s) permanent address regarding the malpractice and
seek explanations.
3) The involvement of staff who are in charge of conducting examinations, invigilators,
examiners valuing examination papers and preparing / keeping records of
documents related to the examinations in such acts (inclusive of providing incorrect
or misleading information) that infringe upon the course of natural justice to one and
18
all concerned at the examinations shall be viewed seriously and recommend for
award of appropriate punishment after thorough enquiry.
4) Based on the explanation by the party involved and recommendations of the
committee action may be initiated.
5) Malpractice committee:
i. Dean, Academics Chairman
ii. Controller of Examinations Convener
iii. Invigilator Member
iv. Chief Examiner of the subject/subject expert Member
v. Concerned Head of the Department Member
Program Education Objectives (PEOs)
I. To provide students with a solid foundation in Mathematics, Sciences,
Electronics, and Instrumentation Engineering which prepares students for
wide range of career opportunities in Industries, Research, and Academics.
II. To train the students with good engineering breadth to comprehend,
analyse, innovate, and design new products in core and multidisciplinary
domain, to provide technical solutions and services to the needs of the
society.
III. To provide students with an academic environment of excellence,
proactiveness, and lifelong learning for successful professional career.
IV. To inculcate professional and ethical attitude, effective presentation skills
and enhanced ability to work in multidisciplinary teams to pursue complex,
open-ended investigations and Research
V. To motivate students towards becoming entrepreneurs, collaborators, and
innovators, leading, or participating in efforts to address social, technical,
and business challenges.
19
Program Outcomes (POs)
The program demonstrates that the graduate is able to
1. Engineering Knowledge: Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science,
engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of
complex engineering problems.
2. Problem analysis: Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze
complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first
principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences.
3. Design/development of solutions: Design solutions for complex engineering
problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs
with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural,
societal, and environmental considerations.
4. Conduct investigations of complex problems: Use research-based knowledge
and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation
of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions.
5. Modern tool usage: Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources,
and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex
engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.
6. The engineer and society: Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge
to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues, and the consequent
responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.
7. Environment and sustainability: Understand the impact of the professional
engineering solutions in societal and environ mental contexts, and demonstrate the
knowledge of, and need for sustainable development.
8. Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities
and norms of the engineering practice.
9. Individual and teamwork: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or
leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.
10. Communication: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with
the engineering community and with society at large, such as, bei ng able to
20
comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective
presentations, and give and receive clear instructions
11. Project management and finance: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of
the engineering and management principles and apply these to one's own work, as
a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary
environments.
12. Life-long learning: Recognize the need for and have the preparation and ability to
engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological
change.
21
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.TECH ELECTRONICS AND INSTRUMENTATION ENGINEERING
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5BS11 Advanced Calculus 3 0 3
5BS21 Engineering Physics 3 0 3
5BS01 English 3 0 3
5CS01 Computer Programming 3 1 4
5CE03 Environmental Studies 3 0 3
5ME19 Engineering Drawing 2 4 4
5BS02 English Language Communication Skills 0 3 2
Laboratory
5CS51 Computer Programming Laboratory 0 3 2
5ME53 IT and Engineering Workshop 0 3 2
Total 17 14 26
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course Lecture
Course Name T/P/D Credits
Code s
5BS12 Ordinary Differential Equations and Laplace 3 0 3
Transforms
5BS13 Computational Methods 3 0 3
5EE01 Circuit Theory 3 1 4
5BS23 Advanced Engineering Physics 3 0 3
5BS32 Engineering Chemistry 3 0 3
5IT02 Data Structures 3 1 4
5BS25 Engineering Physics and Engineering 0 3 2
Chemistry Laboratory
5IT52 Data Structures Laboratory 0 3 2
Total 18 8 24
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
22
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.TECH ELECTRONICS AND INSTRUMENTATION ENGINEERING
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5BS15 Fourier and Complex Analysis 3 0 3
5EC01 Electronic Devices and Circuits 3 1 4
5EE21 Principles of Electrical Engineering 3 0 3
5EI01 Sensors and Signal Conditioning 3 1 4
5EI02 Electronic Measurements 3 1 4
5EI51 Sensors and Measurements Laboratory 0 3 2
5EC51 Electronic Devices and Circuits Laboratory 0 3 2
5EE61 Electrical Engineering Laboratory 0 3 2
Total 15 12 24
#5BS04 Gender Sensitization # - 3 2
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5EE08 Control Systems 3 1 4
5EI03 Signals And Systems 3 0 3
5EI04 Pulse and Digital Circuits 3 0 3
5EC04 Electronic Circuit Analysis 3 0 3
5EC03 Switching Theory and Logic Design 3 0 3
5EI52 Pulse and Digital Circuits Laboratory 0 3 2
5EC63 Electronic Circuits Analysis Laboratory 0 3 2
5EC52 Basic Simulation Laboratory 0 3 2
Total 15 10 22
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
# Value added Course
23
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.TECH ELECTRONICS AND INSTRUMENTATION ENGINEERING
III YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5EI05 Industrial Instrumentation 3 0 3
5BS41 Business Economics and Financial Analysis 3 0 3
5EI06 Linear and Digital IC Application 3 0 3
5EI07 Bio-Medical Instrumentation 3 0 3
Open Elective I 3 0 3
5IT04 Computer Organization 3 0 3
5EI54 Linear and Digital IC Application Laboratory 0 3 2
5EI53 Industrial Instrumentation Laboratory 0 3 2
Total 18 6 22
Open Elective I:
Course Course Name Course Offered By
Code the Department
5CE71 Disaster Management CIVIL
5EE71 Renewable Energy Technologies EEE
5ME71 Digital Fabrication ME
5EC71 Principles of Electronic Communications ECE
5CS71 Object Oriented Programming Through Java CSE
5EI71 Principles of Measurements And Instrumentation EIE
5IT71 Cyber Security IT
5AE71 Principles of Automobile Engineering AE
5BS71 Professional Ethics and Human Values H&S
24
III YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5EC10 Digital Signal Processing 3 1 4
5EC09 Micro Processors and Micro Controllers 3 0 3
Open Elective II 3 0 3
5EI08 Process Control Instrumentation 3 1 4
5BS42 Management Science 3 0 3
5EC56 Micro Processors and Micro Controllers 0 3 2
Laboratory
5BS03 Advanced English Communication 0 3 2
Skills Laboratory
5EI55 Process Control Instrumentation Laboratory 0 3 2
Total 15 11 23
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
Open Elective - II
Course Course Name Course Offered By
Code the Department)
5CE72 Introduction To Geographical Information System CIVIL
5EE72 Energy Auditing Conservation and Management EEE
5ME72 Optimization Techniques ME
5EC72 Introduction To Micro Processors and Controllers ECE
5EC95 Wireless Communications and Networks ECE
5CS72 Open Source Technologies CSE
5EI72 LabVIEW Programming EIE
5EI79 Fundamentals of Robotics EIE
5IT72 Relational Database Management Systems IT
5AE72 Modern Automotive Technologies AE
5BS72 Entrepreneurship H&S
25
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
B.TECH ELECTRONICS AND INSTRUMENTATION ENGINEERING
IV YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5EI09 Virtual Instrumentation 3 1 4
5EI10 Analytical Instrumentation 3 0 3
5EI11 PC Based Instrumentation 3 0 3
Elective-1
5EI 73 Instrumentation Practices in Industries
5EE79 Digital Control Systems
5IT 08 Operating Systems 3 0 3
5EI 74 Principles and Applications of
Nanotechnology
Elective-2
5IT 06 Computer Networks
5EC12 VLSI Design
5EI75 Robotics and Applications 3 0 3
5EE80 Artificial Neural Networks and Fuzzy
Logic
5EI56 Virtual Instrumentation Laboratory 0 3 2
5EI57 Analytical Instrumentation Laboratory 0 3 2
5EI58 Process Control Automation Laboratory 0 3 2
5EI91 Industry Oriented Mini Project 0 4 2
Total 15 14 24
26
IV YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5EI12 Fiber Optic and Laser Instrumentation 3 0 3
Elective-3
5EI 76 Power Plant Instrumentation
Micro Electro Mechanical Systems
3 0 3
5EI 77 Embedded Real Time Operating Systems
5EC14 DSP Processors and Architectures
5EC80
Elective-4
5EI78 Pharmaceutical Instrumentation
5EC79 Internet of Things
5EC73 Digital Image Processing 3 0 3
5EC84
Ad-hoc Wireless Networks
5EI92 Technical Seminar 0 3 2
5EI93 Comprehensive Viva-Voce 0 0 2
5EI94 Project Work 0 20 10
Total 9 23 23
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
27
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech EIE I sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS11) ADVANCED CALCULUS
Prerequisites: Differentiation, Integration
Course Objectives:
• Understand the Taylor’s theorem and its application to maxima and minima of
f(x,y)
• Understand the process of curve Tracing.
• Understand multiple integrals and its applications
• Apply integral theorems of vector calculus.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Solve problems involving the maxima and minima of f(x,y).
• Trace curvesusing basic characteristics.
• Evaluate integrals using special functions and change of variables.
• Evaluate vector integrals.
UNIT I CALCULUS OF ONE AND SEVERAL REAL VARIABLES
Mean value theorems – Role’s Theorem, Lagrange’s Mean value theorem Cauchy’s Mean
value theorem , Taylor’s expansion and McLaurin’s expansion of functions (without proofs).
Partial differentiation, partial derivatives of first and second order in terms of partial derivatives,
change of variables , Jacobian, Taylor’s theorem of two variables(without proof). Maxima and
Minima of two variables, Langrange’s method of undetermined multipliers.
UNIT II CURVE TRACING AND RELATED APPLICATIONS
Radius of Curvature of curves in Cartesian, parametric and polar coordinates. Tracing of curves
in Cartesian, parametric and polar coordinates (like conics, astroid, hypocycloid, Folium of
Descartes, Cycloid, Circle, Cardiode, Lemniscate).
UNIT III MULTIPLE INTEGRALS
Beta, Gamma and Error functions, Introduction of Multiple integrals , evaluation of double
and triple integrals, change of order of integration change of variables , Cylindrical and
Spherical polar coordinates.
UNIT IV VECTOR DIFFERENTIAL CALCULUS
Scalar and Vector point functions, Gradient, Divergence, Curl with geometrical & physical
interpretation, Directional derivatives, and vector identities (without proofs).
28
UNIT V VECTOR INTEGRAL CALCULUS
Line integrals and application to Work done and Circulation, Scalar potential function, Surface
integrals and Volume integrals, Gauss divergence theorem, Green’s theorem , Stokes’ theorem
(theorems without proof).
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – by B. S. Grewal,Khanna publishers
2. Calculus and Analytic Geometry by Thomas and Finney, 9th edition; Publisher: Pearson
Education.
REFERENCES BOOKS:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition; Publisher: John Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter ‘O’ Neil, publisher: Cengage Learning.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa Publications
29
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech EIE I Sem
L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS21) ENGINEERING PHYSICS
(Common for all Branches)
Course Objectives
• To supplement and enhance the knowledge of basic concepts in physics
essentially
required in the study of interaction of light with matter and behavior of a particle
quantum mechanically.
• To Study and understand various phenomena of light- Interference, Diffraction,
Dispersion and total internal reflection.
• To learn and enhance the basic concepts in physics required to deal with large
number of particles and behavior of an electron in metals.
• To understand the basic principles and working of lasers and optical fibers.
• To learn simple applications of these concepts and principles in engineering and
technology.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Realize influence of diffraction and resolvability in optical elements.
• Recognize importance of interference in thin films.
• Distinguish LASER light from ordinary light and describe propagation of light
through Optical fiber by Total Internal reflection.
• Illustrate behavior of a particle in one dimensional potential box.
• Understand behavior of electron in a periodic potential in real crystal and classify
Solids based on conduction.
UNIT I
INTERFERENCE:
Introduction, Superposition principle, Resultant amplitude, Coherence - Methods to obtain
coherent sources, Interference, Young’s Double Slit Experiment, interference thin films by
reflection, Newton’s rings Experiment-Formation of Rings and Experimental Method,
Characteristics of rings, Applications.
30
UNIT II
DIFFRACTION:
Introduction, Distinguish between Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction, diffraction at single slit
(Phasors approach). Diffraction at double slit, circular aperture, and multiple slits (grating)(
Qualitative Approach)-Width of Principal Maxima and Dispersion, Resolution of spectral lines,
Rayleigh criterion, and resolving power of grating.
UNIT III
LASERS AND OPTICAL FIBERS:
Introduction, Characteristics of Lasers, Spontaneous and Stimulated Emission of radiation,
Meta stable state, population inversion, lasing action, Einstein’s coefficients and relation
between them, Ruby Laser, Helium-Neon Laser, Semiconductor Laser,Principle of optical fiber
and Properties, Acceptance angle and acceptance cone, Numerical aperture, Types of fibers
based on refractive index profiles, Qualitative analysis of attenuation in optical fibers,
Application of Lasers and Optical fibers.
UNIT IV
ELEMENTS OF QUANTUM MECHANICS:
Waves and particles, DeBroglie hypothesis, Matter waves, Davisson and Germer experiment,
Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle- Applying it to Non existence of electron in Nucleus and
Single slit Experiment, Schrodinger Wave Equation – Wave function and its Physical
Significance, Particle in one dimensional potential box(wave functions, probability densities and
energy states),Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics (non-
mathematical treatment).
UNIT V
ELECTRON THEORY OF METALS:
Energy levels in one dimension, Effect of temperature on the Fermi-Dirac distribution, Electrical
conductivity & Ohm’s law, Electrical Resistivity of Metals (Qualitative), Electron in a periodic
potential, Bloch Theorem, Kronig-Penney model (non-mathematical treatment), Origin of
energy band formation in solids, Classification of materials into conductors, semiconductors &
Insulators and Concept of effective mass of an electron.
TEXT BOOKS:
(1) Physics vol.2, by Halliday, Resnick and Krane; John Wiley & Sons
(2) Engineering Physics by R.K.Gaur and S.L.Gupta; Dhanpat Rai and Sons
REFERENCES:
(1) Optics by Ghatak and Thyagarajan, Tata Mc Graw
(2) Concepts of Modern physics by Arthur Beiser, McGraw Hill Inc.
(3) Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel : John Wiley & Sons
(4) Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd.
31
(5) Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech (Common to all branches) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS01) ENGLISH
Introduction
This is the age of information and communication technologies. Engineers and technical
professionals need to convey technical information in English for various purposes.
Besides learning general English as an international language, engineering students need to
be equipped with adequate writing ability so that they can communicate technical information
clearly on at least a basic level. A good English writing proficiency can be a contributing factor
to professional recognition and career prospects. This course teaches those writing strategies
that scientists, engineers, and others will need in order to write successfully on the job. It
initiates the students into Technical Writing. The purposes of technical writing are to inform and
persuade. This program aims to train students in writing clear, concise and effective English
and also develop their reading skills.
This Syllabus is therefore, a Pragmatic English Writing and Reading Program for engineering
students with intermediate proficiency. The program covers a syllabus outline and instructional
approaches on basic writing and reading skills with particular reference to technical writing.
Course Objectives:
• To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for academic writing and speaking.
• To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns, reading
techniques and grammatical constructions required in technical writing as well as oral
communication.
• To acquaint the students with the writing process in preparation for academic and
workplace writing.
• Equip the students with the concept of coherence and cohesion for meaningful and
coherent communication.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
• Comprehend technical writing produced in the engineering profession
• Understand the writing process and create logical paragraphs
• Use infrastructural patterns in writing and speaking
• Students communicate coherently orally and in writing.
Methodology
32
A Task-based, process oriented methodology will be used by the teachers to give a practical
orientation to the teaching of language. An inductive approach will be used to demonstrate the
use of language in context. This should enable the students to internalize the language
structures and vocabulary used in context. Students will be exposed to numerous examples
and ample practice will be given in the contextual use of language structures.
Unit I : Review of Grammar
i) Common Errors v) Use of Articles and Prepositions
ii) Subject-Verb Agreement vi) Conjunctions
iii) Adverbs vii) pronoun reference
iv) Transitional elements
Unit II : Prose 1
• Heaven’s Gate by Pico Iyer
• The Connoisseur by Nergis Dalal
Unit III : Reading and Writing Skills
• Reading Comprehension -- Skimming & scanning
• Reading Comprehension -- Intensive & extensive reading
• Paragraph Writing
• Letter Writing
• Memo Writing
Unit IV : Prose 2
• The Cuddalore Experience by Anu George
• The Odds Against Us by Satyajit Ray
Unit V : Writing Skills
1. Comparison and Contrast Pattern
2. Cause and Effect Pattern
3. Classification
4. Analogy (Introductory Level)
5. Problem-Solution Pattern
TEXT BOOKS
1. Enjoying Everyday English by A. Ramakrishna Rao
2. Effective Technical Communication by Ashraf Rizvi
3. Technical Writing Process and Product by Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson
3rd edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
REFERENCES
1. M. Raman and S. Sharma, 2004; Technical Communication : Principles and
Practices, OUP, (Indian Edition)
33
2. Blanton, L.L. 1993; Composition Practice, Book 4 ,Second Edition, Heinle & Heinle
Publishers, pp. 54
3. Georges, T.M. 1996; A course in Analytical Writing for Science and Technology,
4. http://www.mspiggy.etl.noaa.gov/write/
34
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech EIE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5CS01) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING
(Common to EEE, ECE, CSE, EIE& IT)
Course objectives
• To Relate basics of programming language constructs and problem solving
techniques
• To classify and implement derived data types
• To analyze and develop effective modular programming
• To construct mathematical problems and real time applications using C language
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course student is able to
• Develop algorithm, flow chart and pseudo code for a given mathematical problems
• Write, compile and debug programs using different programming constructs in C
language.
• Usage of different Basic and derived data types in C.
• Design programs using modular structures
UNIT- I
Computer fundamentals-Hardware, software, computer language , translators, Program
Development steps-Algorithms, Pseudo code, flow charts, basic Linux commands
,Introduction to C Language – History, Simple C Program, Identifiers, Basic data types,
user defined data types, Variables, Constants, type qualifiers, Managing Input / Output,
Operators, Expressions, Precedence and Associativity, Expression Evaluation, Type
conversions, Simple C Programming examples.
UNIT – II
Selection Statements – if and switch statements, Repetitive statements – while, for, do-
while statements, C Programming examples, other statements related to looping –
break, continue, go to, C Programming examples.
UNIT – III
Arrays– Basic concepts, one-dimensional arrays, two – dimensional arrays,
multidimensional arrays, C programming examples.
Introduction to Structured Programming, Functions- basics, user defined functions, inter
function communication, Standard functions, Storage classes-auto, register, static,
extern, scope rules, arrays to functions, recursive functions, example C programs.
35
UNIT – IV
Strings – Basic concepts, String Input / Output functions, arrays of strings, string
handling functions, strings to functions, C programming examples
Derived types – Structures – Basic concepts, nested structures, arrays of structures,
structures and functions, unions, bit fields, C programming examples.
UNIT – V
Preprocessor Directives, Pointers – Basic concepts, pointers and functions, pointers
and strings, pointers and arrays, pointers and structures, self-referential structures ,
example C programs.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. C programming A Problem-Solving Approach by Behrouz A.Forouzan,
E.V.Prasad,Richard F.Gilberg.
2. How To Program:C, Dietel & Dietel, Seventh Edition,PHI
REFERENCES:
1. The C Programming Language by Brian W. Kernighan, Dennis M. Ritchie.
2. Absolute beginner's guide to C, Greg M. Perry, Edition 2,Publisher: Sams Pub., 1994.
3. Computer Programming and Data Structures by E Balagurusamy, Tata McGraw Hill.
4. Let Us C Yashavantkanetkar BPB.
36
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE03) ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
Course Objectives
• Recognize the importance of environment and ecosystem
• Identify &Analyze human activities and its impact on environment.
• List and understand about the importance of natural resources, Biodiversity & effect of
environment pollution
• Understand about environmental regulations ,economy and environment interaction
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Acquire the knowledge about importance of environment & ecosystem
• Develop skills in understanding of various environmental problems
• Find the solution and strategies to protect the Environment
• List & Distinguish various organizations, regulations for environment protection
UNIT-I
Environmental Studies:
Introduction, Definition, scope and importance.Ecosystems: Introduction, types, characteristic
features, structure and functions of ecosystems. Bio-geo-chemical cycle, Classification of
Ecosystem.
Bio-diversity and its conservation- Value of bio-diversity, Bio-geographical classification of
India – India as a mega diversity habitat, Threats to bio-diversity –Hot-spots, habitat loss,
poaching of wild life, loss of species, seeds, etc. Conservation of bio-diversity – In-situ and Ex-
situ conservation.
UNIT-II
Natural Resources: classification of Resources, Land resources, Common property
resources, Land degradation, Soil erosion and desertification, Effects of modern agriculture,
fertilizer –pesticide problems, Forest resources, Use and over-exploitation, food resources,
food miles.
Mining and dams – benefits & effects, Water resources, Use and over - utilization of surface
and groundwater, Floods, droughts, Water logging and salinity, Conflicts over Water, Energy
resources.
37
UNIT-III
Environmental pollution and its control: Classification of pollution and pollutants, Air
pollution, Causes, Effects, Control measures, ambient air quality standards, water pollution
causes, effects, control measures, water quality standards, Marine pollution causes, effects &
control measures, noise pollution causes, effects and control measures, land pollution causes,
effects and control measures, solid waste management, e-waste management.
UNIT-IV
Global environmental problems and global efforts: Nuclear hazards, Nuclear Pollution,
Global warming, Acid rains, ozone layer depletion, over population, hazardous waste. Clean
development mechanism, green building, carbon credits, carbon trading.
International Conventions/protocols: UNEP, UNFCC, Earth summit, Kyoto protocol,
Montreal protocol and Stockholm declaration.
UNIT-V
Environmental policy, legislation, rules and regulations : National Environmental Policy
Environmental Protection act, Legal aspects Air (Prevention anc Control of pollution ) Act-
1981, Water( Prevention and Control of pollution ) Act-1974, Water pollution Cess Act-1977,
Forest Conservation Act, Municipal solid waste management and handling rules, biomedical
waste management and handling rules, hazardous waste management and handling rules .
Economy and Environment, The economy and environment interaction, Economics of
development, preservation and Conservation, Sustainability: theory and practices.
Environmental Impact Assessment, Rain water harvesting, cloud seeding and watershed
management.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Environmental Science by Y.Anjaneyulu, B S Publications, 2004.
2. Environmental studies by Deeksha dave, Cengage learning India Pvt. Ltd, 1st edition,
2011.
3. Environmental Science and Technology by M. Anji Reddy, B S Publications, 2010.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Environmental Studies for UG Courses, Bharucha Erach, UGC Publications, Delhi, 2004.
2. Environmental Encyclopedia by Cunningham, W.P., et al., Jaico Publishing House,
Mumbai, 2003.
3. Environmental sciences and Engineering by P.Venugopal Rao, PHI Learning Pvt. Ltd.,
38
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech EIE I sem L T/P/D C
2 4 4
(5ME19) ENGINEERING DRAWING
Course Prerequisites: Geometrical construction
Course Objectives:
• Understand the Usage of Drawing Instruments & Auto Cad Commands.
• Understand the Construction Method for Drawing Engineering Curves.
• Understand the Concept of Principal of Projections of Lines, Planes and
Solids.
• Understand the Conversion of Isometric to Orthographic Projections and Vice-
Versa.
Learning Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
• Apply Auto Cad Commands to Construct Engineering Curves.
• Draw the Projections of Lines, Planes and Solids with different Positions.
• Construct different positions of Lines, Planes and Solids in Auto Cad Software.
• Visualize the Objects in the Conversion Process of Isometric Projections to
Orthographic projections and Vice-Versa.
UNIT – I
Introduction to Engineering Drawing; Introduction to AutoCAD; Construction of Ellipse,
Parabola and Hyperbola – General and Special methods; Cycloidal curves.
UNIT – II
Projections of points; Projections of lines and planes – inclined to one plane and inclined to
both the planes.
UNIT – III
Projections of solids: Prism, Pyramid, Cylinder, Cone - axis inclined to one plane and inclined
to both the planes.
UNIT – IV
Isometric projections of lines, planes and simple solids.
39
UNIT – V
Conversion of orthographic views into isometric views and vice-versa.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering Drawing By N.D.Bhatt.
2 Engineering Graphics By K.L. Narayana & P.Kannayya.
REFERENCES
1. Engineering Drawing and Graphics: Venugopal/ New age
2. Engineering Drawing: Johle / TMH
40
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech (Common to all branches) L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS02) ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
The English Language Communication Skills Lab aims to provide practice in all the four skills
of LSRW, with a special emphasis on listening and speaking skills.
Course Objectives:
• Provide ample practice in LSRW skills and train the students in oral presentations,
public speaking, role play and situational dialogue.
• Provide practice in word usage, grammatical construction, structural patterns, and
improve comprehension abilities in the students.
• Train students to use neutral pronunciation through phonetic sounds, symbols,
stress and intonation.
• Enable students to transfer information from verbal to graphic representation and
vice versa.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
• Comprehend spoken and written discourse.
• Speak fluently with neutral pronunciation and exhibit interpersonal skills.
• Write accurately, coherently and lucidly making appropriate use of words depending
on context and present data clearly.
• Introduce oneself to people and be able to speak extempore.
UNIT I
Computer Aided Language Lab:
• Grammar : Nouns and Pronouns; Articles; The Present Tense
• Vocabulary: Lesson 1
• Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: Introduction of Self and others
UNIT II
Computer Aided Language Lab:
1. Grammar: Concord; Adjectives; The Past Tense
2. Vocabulary: Lesson 2
3. Listening Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Seeking and Giving Information, Giving and Taking Instructions
UNIT III
Computer Aided Language Lab:
Grammar --- Adverbs, Conjunctions, Prepositions; The Future Tense
• Vocabulary: Lesson 3
41
• Telephoning Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Role Play/ Situational Dialogues
UNIT IV
Computer Aided Language Lab:
1. Grammar ---- Active and Passive Voice
2.Vocabulary: Lesson 4
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: i) JAM/ Short Talk ii) Information Transfer a) Interpretation of
Graph
UNIT V
Computer Aided Language Lab:
1. Introduction to Technical Writing
A. Definition of a Technical Term
B. Description of a Mechanism
C. Description of a Technical Process
2. Vocabulary: Lesson 5
Communication Skills Lab : Presentation Skills: Oral Presentation
Computer Aided Language Lab Requirements:
The English Language Lab shall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Lab for 30 students with 30 systems, one master
console, LAN facility and English language software for self- study by
learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Lab with conference tables and movable chairs for 30
students and audio-visual aids with a P.A System, a T. V., a digital stereo –audio &
video system and a camcorder
• System Requirement (Hardware component):
Computer network with Lan with 30 multimedia systems with the following
specifications:
• P – IV Processor
• Speed – 2.8 GHZ
• RAM – 512 MB Minimum
• Hard Disk – 80 GB
• Headphones of High quality
iv) Suggested Resources:
Software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above may be procured
and used. Additionally, the abundantly available online resources may also be used.
List of suggested software:
• Tense Busters (5 Levels)
• Walden Educare
• Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
42
• DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill
Practice.
• Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
• TOEFL & GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO & BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE
by CLIFFS)
43
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech EIE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5CS51) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING LABORATORY
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Course objectives
• Gain a working knowledge of C programming to write modular, efficient and readable
C programs by Identifying the structural elements and layout of C source code.
• Declare and manipulate single and multi-dimensional arrays of the C data types
and derived data types like structures, unions.
• Use functions from the portable C library and to describe the techniques for creating
program modules using functions and recursive functions.
• Manipulate character strings in C programs. Utilize pointers to efficiently solve
problems
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course student is able to
• Apply and practice logical ability to solve the problems using C
• Understand C programming development environment.
• Analyzing the complexity of problems , modularize the problems into small
modules and convert them into programs.
• Document and present the algorithms flow charts and programs .
Week 1
a. Basic Linux commands
b. Simple C programs -to implement basic arithmetic operations – sum, average, product,
smallest, largest of the numbers, difference, quotient and remainder of given numbers etc.
Week 2
Programs on if, else-if, nested if, else if ladder - largest and smallest of given numbers, to find
the grade of a student based on marks, roots of a quadratic equation etc.
Week 3
a. Programs on switch-case – to check the type of a given character, to find the grade of a
student etc.
b. Programs on while and do-while- to find factorial, Fibonacci series, GCD, sin(x), cos(x) series
, to check whether a given number is an Armstrong, Palindrome, Perfect, number conversion,
and Prime number etc.
44
Week 4
Programs on for loop- sum of n natural numbers, factorial, sin(x), to generate Pascal’s triangle
etc.
Week 5
a. Programs on nested loops – check for Fibonacci prime, Pyramids of numbers, generation
of prime numbers in the given range, multiplication table etc.
b. programs using break, go to, continue.
Week 6
a. Programs on 1-D array-finding Minimum and maximum element ,Sorting and Searching etc.
b. Programs on 2-D array – Sum, product and Multiplication of two Matrices etc.
Week 7
a. Programs on Functions-Implementation of user defined functions categories, passing of
arrays to functions etc.
b. Programs on recursion - factorial of a given integer, GCD of two given integers etc.
Week 8
a. Programs on String handling functions-Copying, reverse, substring, concatenation.
b. Programs on structure and unions.
Week 9
Midterm exam
Week 10
Programs using pointers- pointer basic operations
Week 11
Programs on pointers towards structures,
Week 12
Programs on pointers to arrays
Week 13
Programs on pointers to strings
Week 14
Programs on pointers to functions
Week 15
Programs on preprocessor directives
Week 16
Internal Lab Exam
45
TEXT BOOKS:
1. C programming A Problem-Solving Approach by Behrouz
A.Forouzan,E.V.Prasad,RichardF.Gilberg
2. How To Program:C, Dietel & Dietel, Seventh Edition,PHI
REFERENCES:
1. The C Programming Language by Brian W. Kernighan, Dennis M. Ritchie.
2. Absolute beginner's guide to C, Greg M. Perry, Edition 2,Publisher: Sams Pub.,
1994.
3. Computer Programming and Data Structures by E Balagurusamy, Tata McGraw
Hill.
4. Let Us C Yashavantkanetkar BPB
46
47
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech EIE – I Sem
T/P/D C
L
0 3 2
(5ME53) IT AND ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
Course Prerequisites: Basic knowledge about different Trades, computer hardware,
Operating System, different trades in mechanical engineering.
Course Objectives:
• To study/demonstrate the concepts of computer w.r.t. it’s hardware.
• To install the operating system and perform various tasks
• To conduct the experiments related to production engineering technology.
• To demonstrate the usage of power tools, CNC lathe and machine shop for
different exercises
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
• Identify, assemble and dissemble the given configuration of a computer.
• Install the operating system in the given configuration of a computer and execute
commands for LINUX Operating System
• To develop components using the techniques of carpentry, tin smithy, forging, etc.
listed in trades for exercises.
• To work out the given models in machine shop and CNC lathe.
IT WORKSHOP
1. Computer Hardware: Identification of Peripherals
2. Study of UPS and SMPS
3. Assembling and disassembling of a PC
4. Simple diagnostic exercises – Related to hardware
5. Installation of Windows Operating System
6. Installation of Linux Operating System
7. Linux Basic Commands
8. Simple diagnostic exercises –Related to Operating System
TEXTBOOKS:
1. IT Essentials PC Hardware and Software Companion Guide Third Edition by Davis
Anfinson and Ken Quamme CISC Press, Pearson Education.
2. PC Hardware and A+ Handbook – Kate J. Chase PHI (Microsoft)
48
ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
TRADES FOR EXCERCISES
At least two exercises from each trade:
1. Carpentry
2. Tin-Smithy
3. Fitting
4. Welding
5. Electrical Wiring
TRADES FOR DEMONSTRATION and EXPOSURE:
1. Power tools in construction, wood working, electrical engineering and mechanical
engineering.
2. Machine shop.
3. CNC Lathe
4. 3D Printing
TEXT BOOKS:
Workshop Manual by P.Kannaiah and K.L.Narayana; Publisher: Scitech.
49
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech EIE II Sem, L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS12) Ordinary Differential Equations and Laplace Transforms
(Common to all branches)
Course prerequisites: Differentiation and Integration
Course Objectives:
• Understand the methods of solving first order differential equations and learn about
its applications to basic engineering problems.
• Understand the methods of solving higher order differential equations and learn about
its applications to basic engineering problems.
• Understand the method of series solutions of second order ordinary differential
equations.
• Apply the convolution theorem to evaluate Laplace Transform of the functions.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Solve the problems in first order differential equations.
• Solve the problems in second order differential equations.
• Obtain the series solutions of second order ordinary differential equations.
• Learn Laplace Transform as a tool.
UNIT I
Ordinary Differential Equations of First Order and Their Applications:
Differential equations of first order and first degree - Exact differential equation , Linear and
Bernoulli differential equation , Applications of differential equations of first order and first
degree - Newton’s law of cooling, Law of natural growth and decay, Orthogonal trajectories
and basic circuits(L-R Circuits, R-C Circuits).
UNIT II
Differential Equations of Higher Order and Their Applications:
Differential equations of higher order - homogeneous and non-homogenous type, differential
equations of second order and higher order with constant coefficients with right hand side term
ax
ax
of the type e sin (ax), cos (ax), polynomials in x, e V(x), x V(x) and method of variation
of parameters, applications to spring mass system ,Simple harmonic motion and L-C-R
Circuits.
UNIT III
Differential Equations with Variable Coefficients:
Euler-Cauchy’s 2nd order differential equations, Series solutions of second order Ordinary
Differential Equations, Regular point, Regular singular point, Frobineous Method.
50
UNIT IV
Laplace Transforms:
Existence condition, Laplace transform of Elementary functions, Properties of Laplace
transforms, Laplace transform of special functions (Unit step function, Dirac delta function and
Periodic function).
UNIT V
Inverse Laplace Transforms:
Inverse Laplace transform of functions using partial fractions, Convolution theorem (statement
only). Solving linear differential equations and Integro-differential eqations using Laplace
transform.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – B. S. Grewal,Khanna publishers.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa Publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher: John Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher: Cengage
Learning
3. A First Course in Differential Equations by Dennis G. Zill; Publisher: Brooks Cole publiers.
51
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS13) COMPUTATIONAL METHODS
Course Prerequisites: Elementary transformations of matrices, differentiation and
integration.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the numerical methods for non linear systems, evaluating definite
integrals and solving Ordinary Differential Equations.
• Understand various methods of interpolation and application.
• Understand the Echolen form and Normal form of a matrix and its applications in
solving linear system of equations.
• Solving system of linear equations using Jacobi and Gauss-Seidal methods.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply the numerical methods to find a root of algebraic and transcendental equations.
• Apply the numerical methods to find the solutions of ordinary differential equations.
• Find the rank using Echelon form, Normal form and compute eigen values.
• Solve linear equations using Jacobi method and Gauss-Seidal method
UNIT I
Solutions of non-linear systems:
Introduction; Mathematical preliminaries; Solution of algebraic and transcendental equations –
bisection method, the method of false position, Fixed point iterative method , Newton -
Raphson method, and their order of convergence.
UNIT II
Interpolation:
Introduction; Errors in polynomial interpolation; Finite differences; Forward differences;
Backward differences; Central differences; Symbolic relations and separation of symbols;
Differences of a polynomial; Newton’s formulae for interpolation; Central difference
interpolation formulae; Gauss’s central difference formulae and Lagrange’s interpolation
formulae.
UNIT III
Numerical differentiation and Integration:
Numerical differentiation based on interpolation, Numerical integration: Trapezoidal rule,
Simpson’s 1/3 rule, and Simpson’s 3/8 rule, Gaussian quadrature 2 & 3 point formulae.
52
Numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations:
Solution of initial value problems by Taylor’s series - Picard’s method of successive
approximations, Euler’s method, and Runge - Kutta methods.
UNIT IV
Matrices:
Elementary Transformations, Rank of matrix, Echelon and Normal forms, Consistency of linear
simultaneous equations, Eigen values and eigen vectors and their properties, Caley – Hamilton
theorem (without proof), Quadratic forms - reduction of quadratic form to canonical form by
linear(congruent) and orthogonal transformations.
UNIT V
Complex Matrices and Iterative Methods for Real Systems:
Unitary, Hermitian and skew – Hermitian matrices. Iterative methods for solving a system of
linear equations (Jacobi method, Gauss-Seidal algorithm) and Power method to find largest
and smallest eigen values.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Numerical Methods in Engineering and Science–B.S. Grewal, 3rdedition Publisher: Khanna
Publishers
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa Publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher: John Wiley
and Sons.
2. Elementary Numerical Analysis – an algorithmic approach -Samuel D. Conte and Carl De
Boor (2006); 3rd edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill
(Beyond Syllabus: Types of errors and analysis)
53
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5EE01) CIRCUIT THEORY
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites: Mathematics, Physics
Course Objectives
• To understand the basic concepts of Circuit Analysis.
• To analyze single phase ac circuits and magnetic circuits.
• To apply Network Theorems for Circuit Analysis.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course students will be able to
• Apply basic network reduction techniques for analysis of electrical circuits.
• Analyze ac circuits along with resonance and locus diagrams.
• Appreciate the application of network theorems and topology solutions.
UNIT–I:
INTRODUCTION TO ELECTRICAL CIRCUITS
Circuit Concept – R-L-C parameters – Voltage and Current sources – Independent and
dependent sources-Source transformation – Voltage – Current relationship for passive
elements (for different input signals-square, ramp, saw tooth, triangular). Kirchhoff’s laws –
network reduction techniques – series, parallel, series parallel, star-to-delta or delta-to-star
transformation. Nodal analysis, Mesh analysis, Super Node and Super Mesh analysis of
Networks with Independent and Dependent voltage and current sources.
UNIT–II:
MAGNETIC CIRCUITS:
Magnetic Circuits – Faraday’s laws of electromagnetic induction – concept of self and mutual
inductance – dot convention – coefficient of coupling – composite magnetic circuit - Analysis
of series and parallel magnetic circuits
54
UNIT–III:
SINGLE PHASE A.C CIRCUITS:
R.M.S and Average values and form factor for different periodic wave forms, Steady state
analysis of R, L and C (in series, parallel and series parallel combinations) with sinusoidal
excitation – Concept of Reactance, Impedance, Susceptance and Admittance – Phase and
Phase difference – concept of power factor, Real and Reactive powers – J-notation, Complex
and Polar forms of representation, Complex power.
UNIT-IV:
LOCUS DIAGRAMS AND RESONANCE
Locus diagrams – series R-L, R-C, R-L-C and parallel combination with variation of various
parameters – Resonance – series, parallel circuits, concept of band width and Q factor.
UNIT–V:
NETWORK TOPOLOGY AND NETWORK THEOREMS
Definitions – Graph – Tree, Basic cutset and Basic Tieset matrices for planar networks - Duality
and Dual networks. Superposition, Reciprocity, Thevenin’s, Norton’s, Maximum Power
Transfer, Tellegen’s, Millman’s and Compensation theorems for d.c. and a.c. excitations.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering circuit analysis by William Hayt and Jack E. Kemmerly, Mc Graw Hill
Company, 6th Edition.
2. Network Analysis by A. Sudhakar, Shyammohan Palli, Mc Graw Hill Company,
3. Circuit Theory by A. Chakrabarti, Dhanipat Rai and Co., 6th Edition.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Network Analysis by M. E Van valkenburg, PHI.
2. Linear circuit analysis (time domain phasor, and Laplace transform approaches) by
RAYMOND A.DECARLO and PEN-MIN-LIN, Oxford University Press.2nd Edition,
2004.
3. Network Theory by N.C. Jagan and C.Lakshminarayana, B.S Publications.
4. Electrical Circuit theory by K. Rajeswaran, Pearson Education 2004.
5. Basic Circuit analysis by D.R, Cunningham and J.A Stuller, Jaico Publications.
55
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGG& TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS23) ADVANCED ENGINEERING PHYSICS
Course Objectives:
• To learn basic structures and classifications of solids.
• To study nature of dielectric, magnetic and conducting properties of materials.
• To visualize different kinds of materials in engineering and technology.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Identify different types of crystals, their defects and importance of X-ray studies in
crystals.
• Recognize materials’ magnetic, dielectric and conducting behavior.
• Show case some applications of crystals and different kinds of materials in
engineering.
SYLLABUS
UNIT I
SEMICONDUCTOR PHYSICS
Fermi level in Intrinsic and Extrinsic semiconductors, Intrinsic semiconductor and carrier
concentration, Extrinsic semiconductor and carrier concentration, Equation of continuity, Direct
and indirect band gap semiconductors, Hall Effect, Formation of p-n junction, Open circuit p-n
junction, Energy diagram of diode, I/V characteristics of p-n junction diode, Diode equation.
UNIT II
CRYSTAL STRUCTURES
Space lattice, Unit cell, Lattice parameter, Crystal systems, Bravais lattice, Atomic radius, Co-
ordination number, Structures and Packing fractions of Simple Cubic, Body Centered Cubic,
Face Centered Cubic, Hexagonal closed packed & diamond Cubic Crystals.
UNIT III
DIRECTIONS, PLANES AND X-RD
Miller Indices for Crystal planes and directions, Inter planar spacing of orthogonal crystal
systems, Diffraction of X-rays by crystal planes and Bragg’s law, Bragg’s Diffractometer,
Applications of X-ray diffraction.
56
DEFECTS IN SOLIDS
Imperfections in crystals, Point defects (Vacancies, Interstitial and Impurities), Schottky and
Frenkel defects (with mathematical treatment), Line imperfections, Edge and Screw
dislocation, Burger vector, Surface defects and volume defects (Qualitative Treatment).
UNIT IV
MAGNETIC PROPERTIES OF MATERIALS
Permeability, Field intensity, magnetic field induction, Magnetization and Magnetic
susceptibility, Origin of magnetic moment, Bohr magneton, Classification of magnetic materials
(Dia, Para and Ferro), Domain theory of ferromagnetism - Necessity, Formation, Hysteresis
curve, Soft and Hard magnetic materials, Ferrites and their applications.
UNIT V
DIELECTRIC PROPERTIES
Electric dipole, Dipole moment, Dielectric constant, Electronic, Ionic and Orientation
Polarization – Molor Polarization and Experimental determination of Molor Polarization,
Calculation of Polarizibilities, Internal fields – Claussius – Mossotti equation, Piezo and Ferro
electricity
SUPERCONDUCTORS
Experimental survey and superconductivity phenomenon, Meissner effect, Critical fields and
Persistent currents, Type I and Type II superconductors, London equations, Flux quantization,
BCS Theory, Applications of Superconductors.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel , Publishers: John Wiley & Sons
2. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd
REFERENCES
1. Solid State Physics by A.J.Dekker; Macmillan Publishers India Ltd.
2. Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
3. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
4. Engineering Physics by M.R.Srinivasan, New Age Publishers
5. Solid State Physics by M.A. Wahab.
57
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS32) ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
Pre-requisites: Basic knowledge of mathematics and chemistry.
Course Objectives
• Understanding the concept of generating electricity by batteries.
• Conceptual knowledge of corrosion science.
• Acquiring the knowledge of preparation, properties and usage of polymers.
• Applying the concept of hardness to analyze various boiler troubles in steam
generation.
• Familiarize the features of carbon nanotubes, composites and self- healing
materials.
Course Outcomes
After the completion of the course student will be able to
• Interpret the chemical applications of the various types of batteries used in the
present day world.
• Acquire the knowledge of corrosion for protecting structures and safeguarding the
economy.
• Evaluate the suitability of various polymers for different applications.
• Analyze and compare the different softening techniques of water.
• Summarize the applications of carbon nanotubes, composites and self- healing
materials.
UNIT I
BATTERIES AND FUEL CELLS
Electrochemistry-definition, types of cells- differences between electrolytic and electrochemical
cells, conditions of reversibility, principle of batteries, Primary cells-(Dry cell, Mercury battery)
and secondary cells -lead-acid cell; Ni-Cd cell; lithium- ion cells (intercalated); Fuel cells :
methanol – oxygen fuel cell, advantages of fuel cells; Solar cells - principle and applications.
UNIT II
CORROSION AND ITS CONTROL
Introduction; Causes and effects of corrosion; Theories of corrosion – chemical and
electrochemical corrosion (reactions); Types of corrosion ( Differential aeration corrosion:
pitting, crevice and waterline corrosion, Differential metal corrosion: galvanic corrosion) ;
58
Factors affecting corrosion – nature of metal (position of metal in galvanic series-differences
between electrochemical & galvanic series; passivity; purity of metal; nature of oxide film;
nature of corrosion product), and nature of environment (effect of temperature; effect of pH;
humidity; formation of oxygen concentration cells).
Corrosion control methods – cathodic protection-sacrificial anode and impressed current
cathodic protection.
Surface coatings –differences between galvanizing and tinning; cladding; electroplating
(copper plating),Paints - constituents and functions.
UNIT III
POLYMERS
Plastics - Thermoplastic resins, and Thermosetting resins, fabrication of plastics –compression,
injection. Preparation, properties, and engineering applications of PE, PVC, Teflon, Bakelite,
Nylon and Kevlar.
Rubber -Processing and vulcanization, preparation, properties, and engineering applications
of Buna-S; Butyl rubber and Thiokol rubber.
UNIT IV
WATER AND ITS TREATMENT
Introduction; Hardness - causes, expression of hardness, units, types of hardness, numerical
problems.Estimation of temporary & permanent hardness of water by EDTA method (no
numerical problems).Boiler troubles - scale & sludge formation, caustic embrittlement, boiler
corrosion, priming & foaming. Softening of water by zeolite and ion exchange process (no
numerical problems), Desalination processes -reverse osmosis.
UNIT V
SMART MATERIALS
Nanomaterials -Introduction; preparation and applications of nanomaterials with special
reference to carbon nanotubes.
Composites-Need for composites, classification based on reinforcing material (Fiber reinforced
composites –glass, carbon and aramid), applications of composites.
Self-healing materials- Definition, features, principle of self-healing materials and their
applications.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna Cherukuri;
Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain & Monica Jain, Publisher: Dhanpatrai Publishing
Company.
REFERENCES
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara & Mukkanti; Publisher: S.Chand
& Co.
2. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna; McGraw Hill Edu.Pvt.Ltd.
3. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, Sulochana
Nagarajan;
Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
4. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi, Cengage Learning
Publications.
59
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5IT02) DATA STRUCTURES
(Common to EEE, ECE, CSE, EIE& IT)
Course Objectives
• To summarize efficient storage mechanisms of data for an easy access.
• Implementation of various basic and advanced data structures.
• To introduce various techniques for representation of the data in the real world.
• To develop application using data structures.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Explore and analyze the working of linear data structures like list, stack and
variation of queue in both static and dynamic implementation.
• Relate and demonstrate the application of linear data structures.
• Illustrate and implement basic nonlinear data structures like trees, graphs and
other operations.
• Identify and implement basic and advanced comparison based sorting and
searching techniques.
UNIT I
File Management
File I/O – Basic concepts, text files and binary files, file input / output operations, file status
functions (error handling), C programming examples, Command-Line Arguments
Data Structures – Introduction to Data Structures, abstract data types, Dynamic Memory
Allocation
UNIT II
Linear list – singly linked list implementation, insertion, deletion and searching operations on
linear list, circular linked list implementation, Double linked list implementation, insertion,
deletion and searching operations. Applications of linked lists.
UNIT III
Stacks-Operations, array and linked representations of stacks, stack applications-infix to
postfix conversion, postfix expression evaluation, recursion implementation.
Queues-operations, array and linked representations. Circular Queue operations, Dequeues,
applications of queue.
UNIT IV
Trees – Definitions, Binary tree representation, Binary search tree, binary tree traversals.
Graphs – Definitions, Graph representations, Graph traversals.
60
UNIT V
Searching and Sorting – Big O Notation, Sorting- selection sort, bubble sort, insertion sort,
quick sort, merge sort,
Searching-linear and binary search methods.
TEXT BOOKS
1. C Programming & Data Structures, B.A.Forouzan and R.F. Gilberg, Third Edition,
Cengage Learning.
2. Data Structures Using C (Paperback) by Aaron M. Tenenbaum
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. C& Data structures – P. Padmanabham, Third Edition, B.S. Publications.
2. Data Structures using C – A.M.Tanenbaum, Y.Langsam, and M.J. Augenstein,
Pearson Education
3. C Programming & Data Structures, E. Balagurusamy, TMH.
4. C Programming & Data Structures, P. Dey, M Ghosh R Thereja, Oxford University
Press
5. C& Data structures – E V Prasad and N B Venkateswarlu, S. Chand&Co.
61
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech CE-I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS25) ENGINEERING PHYSICS AND ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
ENGINEERING PHYSICS LAB LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
• To practically learn interaction of light with matter through physical phenomena like
interference, diffraction and dispersion.
• To understand the periodic motion and formation of standing waves and to know the
characteristics of the capacitors and resistors.
• To compare the experimental results with the class room learning.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Demonstrate the optical phenomena with formation of Newton Rings, and formation
of spectra with a grating and a prism.
• Illustrate periodic motion by measuring rigidity modulus of a material and formation
of standing waves by Melde’s apparatus and also discharging of a capacitor.
• Correlate the experimental results with the class room learning.
Any Eight Experiments from the following:
1. Dispersive Power of the material of a Prism using Spectrometer
2. Diffraction Grating (both with Laser and non laser source)
3. Single Slit with laser light
4. Newton Rings
5. Finding thickness of a thin wire or sheet by forming a wedge shaped film
6. Energy gap of a semiconductor material
7. To determine the rigidity modulus of material of a wire
8. Melde’s experiment
9. Sonometer Experiment
10. AC frequency by sonometer method
11. Numerical Aperture and Acceptance angle of an optical fiber cable
12. Attenuation and Bending losses in optical fiber
13. Stewart Gee’s experiment
14. Characteristics of LED/Laser Diode.
15. Photo cell/ Solar Cell
16. C circuit
62
REFERENCES:
1. Essential Practical Lab Manual in Physics: by Dr.P.Raghavendra
Rao,P.Pavankumar and B.Ashok (inhouse document)
2. Engineering Physics Practicals by B.Srinivasa Rao, V.K.V.Krishna and
K.S.Rudramamba, University Science Press, New Delhi
ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
Pre-requisites: Basic knowledge of Volumetric Analysis and Mathematics.
Course Objectives:
• Familiarize the preparation of solutions and operation of instruments
• Conduct of experiment, collection and analyzing the data
• Summarizing the data and find the applicability of the experiment to common
society
Course Outcomes:
• Understanding the preparation of standard solutions and handling of instruments
• Knowledge of experimentation and recording the data
• Interpretation of results to real world scenario
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
1. Titrimetry: Estimation of hardness of water by EDTA method.
2. Conductometry: Conductometric titration of acid vs base.
3. Colorimetry: Estimation of copper by colorimetric method.
4. pH metry: Determination of pH of sample solutions.
5. Determination of viscosity of sample oil by Redwood Viscometer.
6. Preparations: Soap and Nanoparticles.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by S.K.Bhasin and Sudha
Rani; Publisher: Dhanpat Rai.
2. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari and
Jyotsna Cherukuri; Publisher: VGS Book Links.
63
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5IT52) DATA STRUCTURES LABORATORY
(Common to EEE, ECE, CSE, EIE& IT)
Course Objectives:
• To understand storage mechanism and implement related programs
• To develop skills to design and analyze simple linear and nonlinear data structures
• To strengthen the ability to identify and apply the suitable data structure for the
given real world problem
• To gain knowledge in practical applications of data structures
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Implement storage mechanism and to implement related programs
• Design and analyze the time and space efficiency of the data structure
• Identity the appropriate data structure for given problem
• Gain practical knowledge on the application of data structures
Week 1: 1. Programs on files-Implementation of file handling functions, file error
handling.
Week 2: 2. Programs on command line arguments.
3. Programs on dynamic memory allocation.
4. Write a program to perform creates, insert, delete and search operations in
Single Linked List.
Week 3: 5. Write a program to perform create, insert , delete and search operations
in Circular Linked List
Week 4: 6. Write a program to perform create, insert and deletion operations in Double
Linked List
Week 5: 7. Write a program to implement stack using Arrays
8. Write a program to implement stack using Linked List
Week 6: 9. Write a program to convert infix expression to postfix expression using
stack
10. Write a program to evaluate postfix expression
Week 7: 11. Programs using recursion
64
12. Write a program to convert infix expression to prefix expression using stack
Week 8: 13. Write a program to implement Linear queue using Array
14. Write a program to implement Linear queue using Linked List
Week 9: 15. Write a program to implement insertions and deletions in a Circular Queue.
16. Write a program to implement insertions and deletions in a Dequeue.
Week 10: Midterm Exam
Week 11: 17. Write a program to implement Linear search, Binary search
18. Write a program to implement Bubble sort, Selection sort
Week 12: 19. Write a program to implement Insertion sort
20. Write a program to implement Merge sort
Week 13: 21. Write a program to implement Quick sort.
Week 14: 22. Implementation of a binary tree representation using Arrays
23. Write a program to implement tree traversals.
Week 15: 24. Implementation of a Graph representation using Adjacency Matrix
25. Write a program to implement graph traversals.
Week 16: Final Internal Lab Exam
TEXT BOOKS:
1. C Programming & Data Structures, B.A.Forouzan and R.F. Gilberg, Third Edition,
Cengage Learning.
2. Data Structures Using C (Paperback) by Aaron M. Tenenbaum
REFERENCES:
1. C& Data structures – P. Padmanabham, Third Edition, B.S. Publications.
2. Data Structures using C – A.M.Tanenbaum, Y.Langsam, and M.J. Augenstein, Pearson
Education / PHI
3. C Programming & Data Structures, E. Balagurusamy, TMH.
4. C Programming & Data Structures, P. Dey, M Ghosh R Thereja, Oxford University
Press
5. C& Data structures – E V Prasad and N B Venkateswarlu, S. Chand&Co.
65
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
T /P/D C
II Year B. Tech EIE I Sem 3 0 3
(5BS15) FOURIER AND COMPLEX ANALYSIS
(Common to ECE, EIE)
Pre-requisites
• Integral and Differential calculus
Course objectives
• Compute Fourier coefficients.
• Distinguish between Cauchy’s integral theorem and Cauchy’s integral formula.
• Apply Taylor’s Series and Laurent series to expand complex functions.
• Understand the idea of a conformal mapping.
Course outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Solve problems using Fourier series.
• Apply Cauchy-Riemann equations to study analyticity of functions.
• Evaluate contour integrals using Residue theorem.
• Map the image of the given curve under the given transformation.
UNIT I
Fourier Series and Fourier Transforms:
Fourier Series : Fourier Series of periodic functions, Euler’s formulae, Fourier series of even
and odd functions having arbitrary periods, half range Fourier series.
Fourier Transforms: Fourier transform, Sine and Cosine transforms, properties and its
applications.
COMPLEX ANALYSIS
UNIT II
Functions of a complex variable:
Functions of a complex variable, Continuity, Differentiability, Analyticity, Properties, Cauchy-
Riemann equations in Cartesian and polar coordinates. Harmonic and Conjugate Harmonic
functions, Milne – Thompson method.
66
UNIT III
Elementary functions and Integration of complex function:
Exponential, trigonometric, hyperbolic functions and their properties.
zc
and Log(z), principal
value. Line integral, evaluation along a path and by indefinite integration. Cauchy’s integral
theorem ,Cauchy’s integral formula.
UNIT IV
Power series and Residues:
Radius of convergence , Expansion in Taylor’s series and Laurent series. Singular point,
Isolated singular point, pole of order m , essential singularity. Residues – Evaluation of residue,
Residue theorem, Evaluation of real integrals .
UNIT V
Conformal mapping:
Transformation of
ez
, log(z), z2 , zn (n positive integer), Sin z, cos z, z + a/z. Basic
transformations : Translation, rotation, inversion. Bilinear transformation - fixed point, cross
ratio, properties, invariance of circles, determination of bilinear transformation mapping three
given points to three assigned points.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – B. S. Grewal
2. Complex Variables & Its Applications- Churchill and Brown, (1996), International Edition,
McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES
1. Advance Engineering Mathematics - Peter O’Neil,(2000),5th Edition, Cengage Learning
2. Schaum’s Outline Of Complex Variables - Murray.R.Spiegel,(2011), 2nd Edition, Tata
McGraw Hill.
67
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5EC01) ELECTRONIC DEVICES AND CIRCUITS
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites: Semiconductor physics, mathematics.
Course Objectives
• To learn principle of operation, construction and characteristics of various electronic
devices.
• To study operation and characteristics of Rectifiers with filters.
• To understand the analysis of small signal low frequency amplifiers.
• To provide the concepts involved in design of electronic Circuits.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the operation and characteristics of various electronic devices.
• Develop few applications using electronic devices.
• Analyze small signal model for BJT and FET amplifiers.
UNIT I
p-n Junction Diode and Applications :Review of Semi-Conductor Materials, Theory of p-n
Junction, p-n Junction as a Diode, Diode Equation, Volt-Ampere Characteristics, Temperature
dependence of V-I characteristics, Ideal and Practical Diode Equivalent Circuits, Static and
Dynamic Resistance levels , Transition and Diffusion Capacitances.
The p-n diode as a rectifier, Half wave Rectifier, Full wave rectifier, Bridge Rectifier, Harmonic
components in a Rectifier Circuit, Inductor filters, Capacitor filters, L- Section Filters, - section
filters, Comparison of Regulation Characteristics of different Filters, Breakdown Mechanisms
in Semi-Conductor Diodes, Zener Diode Characteristics, Shunt Voltage Regulation using Zener
Diode.
UNIT II
Transistors, Biasing and Stabilization :The Bipolar Junction Transistor(BJT), Transistor Current
Components, Transistor Construction, BJT Operation, Common Base, Common Emitter and
Common Collector Configurations, Limits of Operation, Transistor as an Amplifier, BJT
Specifications, Principle of series voltage regulators.
The DC and AC Load lines, Quiescent operating Point, Need for Biasing, Fixed Bias, Collector
Feedback Bias, Emitter Feedback Bias, Collector-Emitter Feedback Bias, Voltage Divider Bias,
68
Bias Stability, Stabilization Factors, Stabilization against variations in V βand I .
BE, CO
BiasCompensation using Diodes, Thermistors and Sensistors, Thermal Runway, Thermal
Stability.
UNITIII
Small signal low frequency BJT Amplifiers:Small signal low frequency transistor amplifier
circuits: h-parameter representation of a transistor, Analysis of single stage transistor amplifiers
CE, CC, CB configurations using h-parameters: voltage gain, current gain, Input impedance
and Output impedance. Comparison of CB, CE, CC configurations in terms of A, R, A , R .
I i V O
UNITIV
FET, Biasing and Amplifiers:Construction and operation of Junction Field Effect Transistor
(JFET), Volt-Ampere characteristics - Drain and transfer Characteristics, FET as Voltage
Variable Resistor, Biasing FET, The JFET Small Signal Model, FET Common Source Amplifier,
Common Drain Amplifier, Construction and operation of MOSFET , MOSFET Characteristics
in Enhancement and Depletion modes. Comparison of BJT and FET amplifiers.
UNITV
Special Purpose Electronic Devices: Principle of Operation and Characteristics of Tunnel Diode
(with the help of Energy Band Diagram), Varactor Diode and schotky barrier diode. Principle
of Operation and Characteristics of UJT, UJT Relaxation Oscillator. Principle of Operation of
SCR, Schockley diode Diac and Triac. Principle of Operation of Semiconductor Photo Diode,
PIN Diode, Photo Transistor ,LED and LCD.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Electronic Devices and Circuits – J.Millman, C.C.Halkias, and Satyabratha Jit,
Tata McGraw Hill, 2nd Edition, 2007.
2. Electronic Devices and Circuits – R.L. Boylestad and Louis Nashelsky,
Pearson/Prentice Hall, 11th Edition, 2006.
REFERENCES
1. Integrated Electronics - J.Millman and Christos.C.Halkias, and Satyabratha, Jit
Tata McGraw Hill, 2ndEdition,2008.
2. Electronic Devices and Circuits – T.F. Bogart Jr., J.S.Beasley and G.Rico,
Pearson Education, 6th Edition,2004.
3. Electronic Devices and Circuits- S. S Salivahanan, N. Sursh Kumar, A. Vallava
Raju,2nd Edition., TMH,2010.
4. Electronic Devices and Circuits – David A Bell, Oxford University Press, 5th
edition (2008)
69
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EE21) PRINCIPLES OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites: Circuit Theory, Mathematics
Course Objectives
• To analyze transient response of circuits with dc excitation
• To understand two port network parameters, filters and attenuators
• To know about performance of DC machines
• To understand the operation of transformers and AC machines
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Analyze transient response of circuits
• Evaluate two port parameters and design simple filters
• Appreciate the working of DC machines
• Understand the operation of transformers and AC machines.
UNIT I
Transient Analysis (First and Second Order Circuits)
Transient Response of RL, RC and RLC Circuits for DC excitations, Initial Conditions, Solution
using Differential Equations approach and Laplace Transform Method.
UNIT II
Two Port Networks
Impedance Parameters, Admittance Parameters, Hybrid Parameters, Transmission (ABCD)
Parameters, Conversion of one Parameter to another, Conditions for Reciprocity and
Symmetry, Interconnection of Two Port networks in Series, Parallel and Cascaded
configurations, Image Parameters, Illustrative problems.
70
UNIT III
Filters and Symmetrical Attenuators
Classification of Filters, Classification of Pass band and Stop band, Characteristic Impedance
in the Pass and Stop Bands,Constant-k and m-derived filters-Low Pass Filter and High Pass
Filters (both qualitative and quantitative treatment); Band Pass filter and Band Elimination filters
(qunatitaive treatment only), Illustrative Problems. Symmetrical Attenuators – T-Type
Attenuator, p-Type Attenuator, Bridged T-type Attenuator, Lattice Attenuator.
UNITIV
DC Machines
DC Generators:Principles of Operation of DC Generator, construction, EMF equation, Types
of Generators, Magnetization, Internal and external Characteristics of DC Generators.
DC Motors:DC Motors, Types of Dc Motors, Characteristics of Dc Motors, Losses and
Efficiency, Swinburne’s Test, Speed Control of Dc Shunt Motor- Flux and Armature Voltage
control methods.
UNIT V
Transformers and AC Machines
Transformers and Their Performance:Principle of Operation of Single Phase transformer,
Types, Constructional Features, Phasor Diagram on No Load and Load, Equivalent Circuit,
Losses, Efficiency and Regulation of Transformer, OC and SC Tests, Predetermination of
Efficiency and Regulation, Simple Problems.
AC Machines - Three Phase Induction Motor: Principle of operation of three phase induction
motors- Slip ring and Squirrel cage motors –Slip_Torque characteristics.
Alternators: Principle of operation –Types - EMF Equation- Predetermination of regulation by
Synchronous Impedance Method- OC and SC tests.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Principles of Electrical Engineering- A.Sudhakar, ShyammohanS.Palli, TMH
publications
2. Introduction to Electrical Engineering – M.S.Naidu and S. Kamakshaiah, TMH
publications.
3. Network analysis and Synthesis- C L Wadhwa, New Age International Publishers.
71
REFERENCES
1. Networks, Lines, and Fields – John.D.Ryder, PHI publications.
2. Engineering Circuit Analysis – W.H.Hayt and J.E Kemmerly and S.M.Durbin, TMH
publications.
3. Circuit Theory by Chakrabarti, DhanpatRai and Co.
4. Network Analysis – N.C.Jagan and C.LakshmiNarayana, BS publications.
5. Network Analysis – A.Sudhakar, ShyammohanS.Palli, TMH publications.
72
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5EI01) SENSORS AND SIGNAL CONDITIONING
Pre-requisites: Physics, Mathematics
Course Objectives
• To provide basic knowledge in transduction principles, sensors and transducer
technology and measurement systems.
• To provide better familiarity with the Theoretical and Practical concepts of
Transducers.
• To provide familiarity with different sensors and their application in real life.
• To provide the knowledge of various measurement methods of physical parameters
like velocity, acceleration, torque, pressure, flow, temperature etc. and their relevance
to Industry.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Identify suitable sensors and transducers for real time applications.
• Translate theoretical concepts into working models.
• Design the experimental applications to engineering modules and practices.
• Design engineering solution to the Industry/Society needs and develop products.
Unit I
Introduction to measurement systems
General concepts and terminology, measurement systems, sensor classifications: Analog
Input and Output, Digital Input and Output, general input-output configuration, methods of
correction.
Passive Sensors
Resistive Sensors: Potentiometers, Strain Gages, Resistive Temperature Detectors
(RTDs),Thermistors, Light-dependent Resistors (LDRs), Resistive Hygrometers.
Capacitive Sensors: Variable capacitor and Differential capacitor.
Inductive Sensors: Reluctance variation sensors, Eddy current sensors, Linear variable
differential transformers (LVDTs), Magneto elastic sensors, Electromagnetic sensors - Sensors
based on Faraday’s law of Electromagnetic induction, Touch Sensors: Capacitive, Resistive,
Proximity Sensors.
Unit II
Self-generating Sensors
Thermoelectric Sensors: Thermocouples, Thermo electric effects, Common thermocouples,
Practical thermocouple laws, Cold junction compensation in thermocouples circuits.
73
Piezoelectric Sensors: Piezoelectric effect, piezoelectric materials, applications.
Pyroelectric Sensors: Pyroelectric effect, pyroelectric materials, Radiation laws: Plank, Wein
and Stefan-Boltzmann, Applications.
Photovoltaic Sensors: Photovoltaic effect, materials and applications.
Hall Effect Sensors
Unit III
Digital Sensors
Position Encoders, Incremental position encoders, absolute position encoders, Variable
frequency sensors-Quartz digital thermometers, vibrating cylinder sensors, SAW sensors,
Digital flow meters. Sensors based on MOSFET Transistors, Charge coupled Sensors.
Smart Sensors
Definition of a Smart sensor, Smart sensor systems, Characteristics, Architectures, buses and
interfaces, Smart sensors for electrical and non-electrical variables: Pressure and
Temperature. Standards for Smart Sensors.
Unit IV
MEMS Sensors and Applications
MEMS Overview: Unique Characteristics of MEMS, Typical Application Areas of MEMS,
MEMS Accelerometer, Optical MEMS, MEMS as a switch, MEMS Micro actuators. Principles
of micro sensors: MEMS for Pressure, Force and Temperature Measurement.
Unit V
Signal conditioning: Voltage dividers, Wheatstone Bridge, Instrumentation amplifier and
linearization of resistive bridge sensor, Electrostatic shield, Noise elimination using filters.
Introduction to Resolver-to-Digital Converters and Digital-to-Resolver converters:
Introduction to Synchros and Resolvers. Synchro-to-Resolver converters, Digital-to-Resolver
converters, Resolver-to-Digital Converters.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Sensors and Signal Conditioning, Ramon Pallas-Areny, John G.Webster,2nd Edition.
2. Sensors and Transducers: D. Patranabis, TMH 2003.
REFERENCES
1. Microsensors, MEMS and Smart Devices: Julian Garder, Vijay K. Varadan, John
Wiley & Sons Ltd. (2006).
2. Sensor Technology Hand Book – Jon Wilson, Newne 2004.
3. Instrument Transducers – An Introduction to their Performance and design – by
Herman K.P.Neubrat, Oxford University Press.
4. Measurement system: Applications and Design – by E.O.Doeblin, McGraw Hill
Publications.
5. Electronic Instrumentation by H.S.Kalsi.
74
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5EI02) ELECTRONIC MEASUREMENTS
Pre-requisites: Mathematics, Circuit Theory.
Course Objectives
• Understand different measurement methods and errors associated with them.
• Know the different standards and calibration methodologies adopted in the
measurement systems
• Know different AC and DC bridges for the measurement of R, L and C.
• Know different types of Oscilloscopes and Analyzers (Analog and Digital).
• Acquire clear concepts about the DC and AC voltage and current measurements
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Understand the different methods of measurement
• Calibrate different instruments.
• Designbridges circuits for the measurement of unknown R,L and C.
• display and analyzeany complex waveforms through analog and digital techniques.
UNIT I
Introduction to measurements
Physical measurement.Forms and methods of measurements.Measurement errors.Statistical
analysis of measurement data.Probability of errors.Limiting errors.
Standards.Definition of standard units.International standards.Primary standards.Secondary
standards.Working standards.Voltage standard.Resistance standard.Current
standard.Capacitance standard.Time and frequency standards, Standards for Mass, Length
and Volume, Standards of Temperature and Luminous Intensity, IEEE Standards.
UNIT II
Testing and calibration
Traceability.Measurement reliability.Calibration experiment and evaluation of results.Primary
calibration.Secondary calibration.Direct calibration.Indirect calibration.Routine calibration.
Calibration of a voltmeter, ammeter and an oscilloscope: case study.
UNIT III
Voltage and current measurements
DC & AC voltage measurements using Rectifier, Thermocouple & Electronic voltmeters, Ohm
meter, Digital Voltmeters, Range Extension of Ammeters & Voltmeter, Digital Multimeter
75
Frequency Counters: Basic Principle, errors associated with counter, Different modes of
operations: Frequency, Time, Time Period, Average time period, Totalizing, Frequency
synthesizer, Wave meters, Wave Analyzers, Output Power meter.
UNIT IV
Bridges
AC Bridges – measurement of inductance:- Maxwell’s bridge, Anderson bridge, Hays Bridge
measurement of capacitance:-Schering bridge, measurement of impedance: – Kelvin’s
bridge, Wheat Stone bridge, HF bridges, problems of shielding, and grounding, Q-meter.
UNIT – V
Oscilloscopes
CRO operation, CRT characteristics, probes, Time base sweep modes, Trigger generator,
Vertical amplifier, modes of operation, A, B, alternate & chop modes, sampling oscilloscopes,
storage oscilloscope, Standard specifications of CRO, Synchronous selector circuits.
Analyzers
Spectrum analyzers, Different types of spectrum analyzers, Display Devices and Display
Systems, Logic Analyzers – State & time referenced data capture. Scalar and Vector network
analyzers.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Electronic Instrumentation – HS Kalsi, Tata Mc Graw Hill, 2004..
2. Electronic Instrumentation and measurements techniques by Helfrick and
W.D.Cooper.,PHI publications.
REFERENCES
1. Principles of measurement systems, John P. Bentley: 3rd edition, Addison Wesley
Longman, 2000.
2. Measuring Systems, Application and Design : E.O. Doebelin, McGraw Hill.
3. Electrical and Electronic Measurements : Shawney, Khanna Publ.
4. Electronic Instrumentation and measurements : David A. Bell, 2nd Edition,PHI,
2003.
5. Electronic instruments and instrumentation Technology, M.M.S. Anand: Prentice-
Hall of India,2004.
Subject Practice: EDA tools.
76
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EI51) SENSORS AND MEASUREMENTS LABORATORY
Course Objectives
• To acquire hands on experience in active and passive sensors/transducers.
• To understand different signal conditioners
• To design basic measuring devices like bridges
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Appreciate the use of sensors
• Identify the sensors required for any specific application.
• Design simple measuring devices .
• Develop simple measuring systems employing appropriate sensors.
List of Experiments: (Minimum 12 experiments to be conducted)
1. Measurement of Load using Strain Gauge bridge
2. Measurement of Temperature using Thermistor, RTD and Thermocouple
3. Measurement of Displacement using LVDT, use of LVDT for Capacitance
measurement
4. Measurement of L,C and R using Bridges and comparing them with Q-Meter
5. Extension of range of DC Ammeter, converting it into Voltmeter
6. Extension of range of AC Voltmeter, converting it into Ammeter
7. Construction of Series and Shunt type Ohm meters using PMMC
8. Measurement of Resistance using Wheatstone Bridge / Kelvin Bridge
9. Measurement of Capacitance using Schering’s Bridge
10. Measurement of Inductance using Maxwell’s Bridge
11. Characteristics of Opto-Electric Transducers (Photo Transistor, Photo Diode and
LDR)
12. Pressure measurement through Bourdon Tube
13. Radiation and optical Pyrometers
14. Characteristics of pH sensors
15. Characteristics of Conductivity sensors.
16. Characteristics of DO sensors
77
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EC51) ELECTRONIC DEVICES AND CIRCUITS LABORATORY
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites: Semiconductor physics, Electronic Devices and Circuits Concepts
Course Objectives
• To identify various components and testing of active devices.
• To study and operation of millimeters, function generators ,regulated power
supplies and CRO
• To know the characteristics of various active devices.
• To study frequency response Amplifier.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply various devices to real time problems.
• Compute frequency response of various amplifiers.
Part A: (Only for viva-voce Examination)
ELECTRONIC WORKSHOP PRACTICE(in 2 lab sessions):
1. Identification, Specification, testing of R,L,C components (color codes),
Potentiometers (SPDT, DPDT, and DIP, Coils, Gang Condensers, Relays, Bread
Board, PCB’s
2. Identification, Specification, testing of Active devices : Diodes, BJT, Low power
JFET’s, MOSFET’s, Power Transistors, LED’s, LCD’s, SCR, UJT.
3. Study and operation of:
• Multimeters (Analog and Digital)
• Function Generator
• Regulated Power Supplies
• CRO
78
Part B: (For Laboratory Examination – Minimum of 10 experiments)
1. Forward and Reverse Bias V-I characteristics of PN junction Diode.
2. Zener diode V-I characteristics and Zener diode as voltage regulator.
3. Half Wave, and Full wave with and without filters.
4. Characteristics of a BJT under CE configuration and calculation of h-parameters.
5. Characteristics of a BJT under CC configuration and calculation of h-parameters.
6. Characteristics of a BJT under CB configuration and calculation of h-parameters.
7. FET characteristics under CS configuration.
8. Frequency response of CE Amplifier.
9. Frequency response of CC Amplifier.
10. Frequency response of CS FET Amplifier.
11. SCR characteristics.
12. UJT characteristics and Relaxation Oscillator.
79
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EE61) ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING LABORATORY
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites: Circuit Theory, Principles of Electrical Engineering
Course Objectives
• The theoretical concepts of KVL and KCL are verified experimentally
• The transient behavior of RLC networks are studied practically
• The network theorems are verified experimentally
• The performance and efficiency / regulation of electrical machines are
determined experimentally (under various operating conditions)
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply the network theorems in the domain applications
• Practically study the transient behavior of the RLC networks
• Find the applications of the electrical machines with the experimental
determination of the performance of the machines.
• Find the difference between Generator and Motor performance and
characteristics
PART- A
1. Verification of KVL and KCL.
2. Series and Parallel Resonance – Timing, Resonant frequency, Bandwidth and Q-
factor determination for RLC network.
3. Time response of first order RC/RL network for periodic non-sinusoidal inputs time
constant and steady state error determination.
4. Two port network parameters –Z and Y-parameters
5. Two port network parameters – ABCD and h-parameters
6. Verification of Superposition and Reciprocity theorems.
7. Verification of maximum power transfer theorem. Verification on DC and AC
Excitation with resistive and Reactive loads.
8. Experimental determination of Thevenin’s and Norton’s equivalent circuits and
verification by direct test.
9. Constant –k Low Pass Filter and High Pass Filter- Design and Test.
80
PART- B
1. Magnetization characteristics of D.C Shunt generator, Determination of critical field
resistance.
2. Swinburne’s Test on Dc shunt machine. (Predetermination of efficiency of a given
Dc Shunt machine working as motor and generator)
3. Brake test on DC shunt motor. Determination of performance characteristics.
4. OC and SC tests on Single-phase transformer (Predetermination of efficiency and
regulation at given power factors and determination of equivalent circuit).
5. Load Test on single Phase Transformer.
6. Speed Control of DC shunt Motor – flux and armature voltage control methods.
Note: Any 12 of the above experiments, 6 from each part to be conducted.
81
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS04) GENDER SENSITIZATION
(Common to All Branches)
Course Objectives:
• To develop students sensibility with regard to issues of gender in contemporary
India.
• To provide a critical perspective on the socialization of men and women.
• To introduce students to information about some key biological aspects of genders.
• To expose the students to debates on the politics and economics of work.
• To help students reflect critically on gender violence.
• To expose students to more egalitarian interactions between men and women.
Course Outcomes:
• Students will have developed a better understanding of important issues related to
gender in contemporary India.
• Students will be sensitized to basic dimensions of the biological, sociological,
psychological and legal aspects of gender. This will be achieved through discussion
of materials derived from research, facts, everyday life, literature and film.
• Students will attain a finer grasp of how gender discrimination works in our society
and how to counter it.
• Students will acquire insight into the gendered division of labour and its relation to
politics and economics.
• Men and women students and professionals will be better equipped to work and live
together as equals.
• Students will develop a sense of appreciation of women in all walks of life.
• Through providing accounts of students and movements as well as the new laws
that provide protection and relief to women, the textbook will empower students to
understand and respond to gender violence.
UNIT I
UNDERSTANDING GENDER:
Gender: Why Should We Study It? (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-1)
Socialization: Making Women, Making Men (Towards a word of Equals:
Unit-2)
Introduction, Preparing for Womanhood. Growing up Male. First lessons in Caste. Different
Masculinities.
Just Relationships: Being Together as Equals (Towards a world of Equals: Unit-12)
Mary Kom and Onler. Love and Acid just do not Mix. Love Letters, Mothers and Fathers.
Further Reading: Rosa Parks-The Brave Heart.
82
UNITII
GENDER AND BIOLOGY:
Missing Women: Sex Selection and Its Consequences (Towards a word of Equals:
Unit-4)
Declining Sex Ratio. Demographic Consequences.
Gender Spectrum: Beyond the Binary (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-10)
Two or Many? Struggles with Discrimination.
Additional Reading: Our Bodies, Our health (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-13)
UNIT III
GENDER AND LABOUR:
Housework: the Invisible Labour (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-3)
“My Mother doesn’t Work.””Share the Load.”
Women’s Work: Its Politics and Economics (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-7)
Fact and Fiction. Unrecognized and Unaccounted work. Further Reading: Wages and
Conditions of Work.
UNIT IV
ISSUES OF VOILENCE:
Sexual Harassment: Say No! (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-6)
Sexual Harassment: not Eve-Teasing-Coping with Everyday Harassment-Further Reading:
“Chupulu”.
Domestic Violence: Speaking Out (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-8)
Is Home a Safe Place?-When Women Unite [Film]. Rebuilding Lives. Further Reading: New
Forums for Justice.
Thinking about Sexual Violence (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-11)
Blaming the Victim-“I fought for my Life...”- Further reading: The Caste Face of Violence.
UNIT V
GENDER AND STUDIES:
Knowledge: Through the Lens of Gender (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-5)
Point of View. Gender and the Structure of Knowledge. Further Reading: Unacknowledged
Women Artists of Telangana.
Whose History? Questions for Historians and Others (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-
9)
Reclaiming a Past. Writing Other Histories. Further Reading. Missing Pages from Modern
Telangana History.
Essential Reading: all the Units in the Textbook, “Towards a word of Equals: A Bilingual
Textbook on Gender” written by A. Suneetha, Uma Bhrugubanda, Duggirala Vasanta, Rama
Malkote, Vasudha Nagaraj, Asma rasheed, Gogu Shyamala, Deepa Sreenivas and Susie
Tharu.
83
Note: Since it is Interdisiplinary Course, Resouse Persons can be drawn from the fields of
English Literature or Sociology or Political Science or any other qualified faculty who has
expertise in this field.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Sen, Amartya. “More than One Million Women are Missing.” New York Review of
Books 37.20 (20 December 1990). Print. ‘We Were Making History...’ Life Stories of
Women in the Telangana People’s Struggle. New Delhi: Kali for Women, 1989.
2. Tripti Lahiri. “By the Numbers: Where Indian Women Work.” Women’s Studies
Journal (14 November 2012) Available online at : http://blogs.wsj.com/India real
time/2012/11/14/by-the-numbers-where-India-women-work/>
3. K. Satyanarayana and Susie tharu(Ed) Steel Nibs are Sprouting: New Dalit Writing
from South India Dossier 2: Telugu and Kannada
http://harpercollins.co.in/BookDetail.asp?Book Code =3732
4. Vimala . “Vantillu (The Kitchen)”. Women Writing in India: 600 BC to the Present.
Volume II: The 20th Century. Ed. Susie Tharu and K. Lalita. Delhi: Oxford University
Press, 1995. 599-601.
5. Shatrughna, Veena et al. Women’s Work and its Impact on Child Health and
Nutrition, Hyderabad, National Institute of Nutrition, Indian Council of Medical
Research. 1993.
6. Stree Shakti Sanghatana. “ We Were Making History.....’Life Stories of Women in
the Telangana People’s Struggle. New Delhi: Kali for Women, 1989.
7. Menon, Nivedita. Seeing like a Feminist. New Delhi: Zubaan-Penguin Books, 2012.
8. Jayaprabha, A. “Chupulu (Stares)”, Women Writing in India: 600 BC to the Present.
Volume II: The 20th Century. Ed. Susie Tharu and K. Lalita. Delhi: Oxford University
Press, 1995. 596-597.
9. Javeed, Shayan and Anupam Manuhaar. “Women and wage Discrimination in
India: A Critical Analysis.”International Journal of Humanities and Social Science
Invention 2.4 (2013).
10. Gautam , Liela and Gita Ramaswamy. “A ‘conversation’ between a Daughter and a
Mother.”Broadsheet on Contemporary Politics, Special issue on Sexuality and
Harassment: gender Politics on Campus Today. Ed. Madhumeeta Sinha and Asma
rasheed. Hyderabad: Anveshi Research Center for Women’s Studies, 2014.
11. Abdulali Sohaila “I Fought For My Life ...and Won. “Available online at:
http://www.thealternative.in/lifestyle/i-fought-for-my-lifeand-won-sohaila-abdulal/
12. Jeganathan Pradeep, Partha Chatterjee (Ed). “Community, Gender and Violence
Subaltern Studies XI’
Permanent Black and ravi Dayal Publishers, New Delhi, 2000.
13. K. Kapadia. The Violence of Development: the Politics of Identity, Gender and
Social Inequalities in India. London: Zed Books, 2002.
14. S. Benhabib. Situating the Self: Gender, Community, and Postmodernism in
Contemporary Ethics, London: Routledge, 1992.
15. Virginia Woolf. A Room of One’s Own. Oxford: Black Swan. 1992.
16. T. Banuri and M. Mahmood, Just Development: Beyond Adjustment with a Human
Face, Karachi: Oxford University Press, 1997
84
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5EE08) CONTROL SYSTEMS
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites: Basic concepts of Mathematics and Signal concepts
Course Objectives
• To understand the different ways of system representations such as Transfer
Function representation and state space representations and Should able to assess
the system dynamic response
• To assess the system performance using time domain analysis and should know
how to improve it
• To assess the system performance using frequency domain analysis and should
know how to improve it
• To design various controllers and compensators to improve system performance
Course outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Know how to improve the system performance by selecting a suitable controller
and/or compensator for a specific application
• Apply various time domain and frequency domain techniques to assess the system
performance
• Apply various control strategies to different applications Example: Power Systems,
Electrical drives etc…)
• Test system Controllability and Observability using state space representation and
applications of state space representation to various systems.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Concepts of Control Systems- Open Loop and Closed Loop control systems and their
differences- Different examples of control systems- Classification of control systems, Feed-
Back Characteristics, Effects of feedback.
85
Mathematical models – Differential Equations, Impulse Response and Transfer Functions -
Translational and Rotational mechanical systems
UNIT II
TRANSFER FUNCTION REPRESENTATION AND TIME RESPONSE ANALYSIS
Transfer Function of DC Servo motor - AC Servo motor- Synchro Transmitter and Receiver,
Block diagram representation of systems considering electrical systems as examples -Block
diagram algebra – Representation by Signal flow graph - Reduction using Mason’s gain
formula.
Standard test signals - Time response of first order systems – Characteristic Equation of
Feedback control systems, Transient response of second order systems - Time domain
specifications – Steady state response - Steady state errors and error constants – Effects of
Proportional Derivative, Proportional Integral systems.
UNIT III
STABILITY ANALYSIS IN S-DOMAIN
The concept of stability – Routh’s stability criterion – qualitative stability and conditional stability
– limitations of Routh’s stability.
ROOT LOCUS TECHNIQUE
The root locus concept - construction of root loci-effects of adding poles and zeros to G(s) H(s)
on the root loci.
UNIT IV
FREQUENCY RESPONSE AND STABILITY ANALYSIS IN FREQUENCY DOMAIN
Introduction, Frequency domain specifications-Bode diagrams-Determination of Frequency
domain specifications and transfer function from the Bode Diagram-Phase Margin and Gain
Margin-Stability Analysis from Bode Plots. Polar Plots-Nyquist Plots-Stability Analysis.
UNIT V
CLASSICAL CONTROL DESIGN TECHNIQUES AND STATE SPACE ANALYSIS OF
CONTINUOUS SYSTEMS
Compensation techniques – Lag, Lead and Lead-Lag compensators design in frequency
Domain, PD, PI and PID Controllers.
Concepts of state, state variables and state model, derivation of state models from block
diagrams, Diagonalization- Solving the Time invariant state Equations- State Transition Matrix
and it’s Properties – Concepts of Controllability and Observability.
86
TEXT BOOKS
1. Control Systems Engineering by I. J. Nagrath and M. Gopal, New Age
International (P) Limited, Publishers, 5th edition.
2. Automatic Control Systems 8th edition by B. C. Kuo 2003– John wiley and sons.
REFERENCES
1. Modern Control Engineering by Katsuhiko Ogata, Prentice Hall of India Pvt. Ltd.,
3rd edition, 1998.
2. Control Systems by N.K.Sinha, New Age International (P) Limited Publishers,
3rd Edition, 1998.
3. Control Systems Engineering. by NISE, John wiley, 3rd Edition.
4. Modelling and Control of Dynamic Systems by Narciso F. Macia George J. Thaler,
Thomson Publishers.
5. Modern Control System Theory by M.Gopal, New age international publishers,
Revised second edition.
87
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EI03) SIGNALS AND SYSTEMS
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites: Basics of mathematical concepts
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Understand various fundamental characteristics of signals and systems.
• Study the importance of transform domain.
• Analyze and design various systems.
• Studythe effects of sampling.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
•Classify the signals and systems and determine the response of the systems.
•Analyze the spectral characteristics of signals and systems
• Design the continuous-time and discrete-time systems
UNIT I
Representation of Signals
Continuous time and Discrete Time signals, Classification of Signals – Periodic and aperiodic,
even and odd, energy and power signals, deterministic and random signals, complex
exponential and sinusoidal signals. Concepts of Impulse function, Unit step function, Signum
function. Various operations on Signals.
Signal Transmission through Linear Systems
Classification of Continuous time and discrete time Systems, impulse response, Response of
a linear system, Transfer function of a LTI system. Filter characteristics of linear systems.
Distortion less transmission through a system, Signal bandwidth, system bandwidth, Ideal LPF,
HPF and BPF characteristics, Causality and Paley -Wiener criterion for physical realization,
relationship between bandwidth and rise time.
UNIT II
Signal Analysis
Analogy between vectors and signals, Orthogonal signal space, Signal approximation using
orthogonal functions, Closed or complete set of orthogonal functions
88
Fourier Series Representation of Periodic Signals
Representation of Fourier series, Continuous time periodic signals, Dirichlet’s conditions,
Trigonometric Fourier series and Exponential Fourier series, Complex Fourier spectrum, Gibb’s
Phenomenon.
UNIT III
Fourier Transforms
Deriving Fourier transform from Fourier series, Fourier transform of arbitrary signals, Fourier
transform of standard signals, Fourier transform of periodic signals, properties of Fourier
transforms
Laplace Transforms
Concept of region of convergence (ROC) for Laplace transforms. Properties of ROC. Relation
between Laplace Transforms and Fourier transform of a signal. Introduction to Hilbert
Transform.
UNIT IV
Convolution and Correlation of Signals
Concept of convolution in time domain and frequency domain, Graphical representation of
convolution, Properties of Convolution, Concepts of correlation, properties of
correlation.Relation between convolution and correlation, Detection of periodic signals in the
presence of noise by correlation.
Sampling Theorem
Representation of continuous time signals by its samples - Sampling theorem – Reconstruction
of a Signal from its samples, aliasing – discrete time processing of continuous time signals,
sampling of band pass signals.
UNIT V
Z –Transforms
Basic principles of z-transform, region of convergence, properties of ROC, Properties of z-
transform , Poles and Zeros. Inverse z-transform using Contour integration, Residue Theorem,
Convolution Method and Partial fraction expansion.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Signals, Systems and Communications - B.P. Lathi, BS Publications, 2009.
2. Signals and Systems – Alan V.Oppenheim, Alan S.Willsky and S.Hamid Nawab,2nd
Edition, PHI.
89
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Signals and Systems- A.Anand Kumar, 2nd Edition, PHI,2012
2. Signals and Systems -Simon Haykin and Barry Van Veen, 2nd Edition, John Wiley.
3. Signals and Systems- Cengage Learning, Narayana Iyer, 2011.
4. Signals, Systems and Transforms –C.L.Philips,J.M Parr and Eve A. Riskin,3rd Edition,
Pearson, 2004 .
5. Signals and Systems Schaum’s Outlines - HWEI P. HSU , Tata Mc Graw Hill, 2004.
90
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EI04) PULSE AND DIGITAL CIRCUITS
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites: Electronic Devices andCircuits
Course Objectives
Student will be able
• To provide knowledge of Pulse and Wave shaping circuits.
• To analyze and design BJT switching circuits
• To Analyze and Design the Sweep generators for various applications.
• To Analyze and Design of the logic gates and sampling gates using discrete
components.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Design linear and non-linear wave shaping circuits.
• Apply theswitching and logic concepts in digital circuits.
• Design non-sinusoidal waveform generators.
UNIT I
LINEAR WAVESHAPING
High pass, low pass RC circuits, their response for sinusoidal, step, pulse, square and ramp
inputs. RC network as differentiator and integrator. Attenuators and its applications in CRO
probe, RL and RLC circuits and their response for step input, ringing circuits.
UNIT II
NON-LINEAR WAVE SHAPING
Diode clippers, Transistor clippers, clipping at two independent levels, Transfer characteristics
of clippers, Emitter coupled clipper, Comparators, applications of voltage comparators,
clamping operation, clamping circuits using diode with different inputs, Clamping circuit
theorem, practical clamping circuits, effect of diode characteristics on clamping voltage.
91
UNIT III
SWITCHING CHARACTERISTICS OF DEVICES
Diode as a switch, piecewise linear diode characteristics, Transistor as a switch, Break down
voltage consideration of transistor, saturation parameters of Transistor and their variation with
temperature, transistor-switching times.
SAMPLING GATES
Basic operating principles of sampling gates, Unidirectional and Bi-directional sampling gates,
Applications of sampling gates.
LOGIC GATES
Relaxation of logic gates Using Diodes and Transistors: AND, OR, NOT, NAND and NOR
gates using Diodes& Resistors
UNIT IV
MULTIVIBRATORS
Design and Analysis of Bistable, Monostable, Astable Multivibrators (Collector coupled).
Analysis of Schmitt trigger using transistors, Hysteresis. Applications of multivibrators.
UNIT V
TIME BASE GENERATORS
General features of a time base signal, methods of generating time base waveform, Miller
and Bootstrap time base generators – basic principles, Transistor miller time base generator,
Transistor Bootstrap time base generator, Current time base generators.
SYNCHRONIZATION AND FREQUENCY DIVISION
Principles of Synchronization, Pulse synchronization of Relaxation devices, Frequency
division in sweep circuits, Astable relaxation circuits, Synchronization of a sweep circuit with
symmetrical signals.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Pulse, Digital and Switching Waveforms J. Millman and H. Taub, McGraw-Hill, 1991.
2. Pulse and Digital Circuits – A. Anand Kumar, PHI.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Pulse and Digital circuits – M.S. Prakash Rao, Mc. Graw Hill
2. Solid State Pulse circuits - David A. Bell, PHI, 4th Edn.., 2002 .
3. Wave Generation and Shaping L. Strauss.
4. Pulse, Digital Circuits and Computer Fundamentals - R.Venkataraman.
Practice: Subject practice through Multisim software
92
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech EIE II sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EC04) ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT ANALYSIS
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites: Electronic Devices and Circuits
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Explain the operation, design and Analysis of multistage amplifiersusing BJT and
MOSFET.
• Design high frequency BJT amplifiers and analysis of MOS amplifiers.
• Understand the concepts of feedback amplifiers and Oscillators
• Design large signal and tuned amplifiers.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Design amplifier circuits.
• Design various feedback amplifiers and power amplifiers.
• Apply the knowledge of Tuned amplifiers andpower supplies.
UNIT I
Multistage Amplifiers
Introduction, Methods of inter-stage coupling, n-stage cascaded amplifier, Equivalent circuits,
Miller’s Theorem, Frequency effects, Amplifier analysis, High input resistance Transistor
Circuits, Darlington Pair, Two-stage RC-coupled JFET amplifier (in Common Source
configuration).
UNIT II
BJT Frequency Response of Amplifiers
Frequency response of BJT amplifier, Analysis at low and high frequencies, Effect of coupling
and bypass capacitors, Hybrid-π Common Emitter transistor model, CE short circuit gain, CE
current gain with resistive load, Single-stage CE transistor amplifier response.
93
MOS Amplifiers
Basic Concepts, MOS Small signal Model, Common source amplifier with Resistive load, Diode
connected load, and current source load, Source follower, Common Gate stage Cascode and
Folded Cascode Amplifier and their frequency response. Basic MOS differential
amplifier(Qualitative analysis) Basic CMOS circuit.
UNIT III
Feedback Amplifiers and Oscillators
Concept of feedback, Classification of feedback amplifiers, general characteristics of negative
feedback amplifiers, Effect of feedback on amplifier characteristics, voltage series, voltage
shunt, current series and current shunt feedback configurations, Illustrative problems.
Classification of oscillators, Conditions for oscillations, RC phase shift oscillator, Wien bridge
oscillator, Generalized analysis of LC oscillators – Hartley and Colpitts oscillators, Piezoelectric
crystal oscillator, Stability of oscillators.
UNIT IV
Power Amplifiers
Classification of power amplifiers, Class A large-signal amplifiers, Series-fed and transformer-
coupled Class A audio power amplifier, Efficiency of Class A amplifier , Class B amplifier,
Transformer-coupled Class B push-pull amplifier, Complementary-symmetry Class B push-pull
amplifier, Efficiency of Class B amplifier, Distortion in power amplifiers, Thermal stability and
Heat sinks
UNIT V
Tuned Amplifiers
Introduction, Small signal single tuned amplifiers, Double-tuned amplifiers , Effect of cascading
single and double tuned amplifiers on bandwidth, Stagger-tuned amplifier and Class-C tuned
amplifiers(Qualitative analysis). Power supply requirements, Introduction and classification of
Power Supplies.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Integrated Electronics - Jacob Millman and Christos C. Halkias, , Tata McGraw-Hill
Education, 2008.
2. Electronic Circuit Analysis - S. Salivahanan, N. Suresh Kumar, , Tata McGraw-Hill
Education, 2ndedition, 2012.
94
REFERENCES
1. Design of Analog CMOS Integrated Circuits - Behzad Razavi, Tata McGraw-Hill
Education, 2008
2. Electronic Devices and Circuit Theory - Robert L.Boysted , Louis Nashelisky,
Pearson Education , 9th edition, 2008. (ISBN: 978-81-219-2450-4)
3. Introductory Electronic Devices and Circuits, Robert T. Paynter, Pearson
Education, 7th edition, 2010.
4. Micro Electronic Circuits – Sedra and Smith, Oxford University Press, 5th edition,
2009.
95
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EC03) SWITCHING THEORY AND LOGIC DESIGN
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites: Basic Electronics
Course Objectives
Student will be able
• To understand the concepts of number systems, codes and design of various
combinational and synchronous sequential circuits
• To learn various methods to minimize the Boolean expressions for reducing the
number of gates and cost
• To realize logic networks, digital computers using PROM, PLA, PAL devices.
• To design state machines and ASM charts
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Represent Digital data in various formats
• Design and implement combinational and sequential circuits with minimized logic
• Design ASM charts for digital systems
UNIT I
NUMBER SYSTEMS AND CODES: Philosophy of number systems – complement
representation of negative numbers-binary arithmetic-binary codes. -error detecting & error
correcting codes –hamming codes.
BOOLEAN ALGEBRA: Fundamental postulates of Boolean algebra - Basic theorems and
properties, Boolean functions and representations: SOP, POS, Truth table, Canonical and
Standard forms-Algebraic simplification, Digital logic gates, properties of XOR gates –universal
gates-Multilevel NAND/NOR realizations.
96
UNIT II
SWITCHING FUNCTIONS:
MINIMIZATION OF SWITCHING FUNCTIONS: Karnaught-Map method-upto 5 variables,
Prime Implicants, don’t care combinations, Minimal SOP and POS forms, Tabular Method,
Prime –Implicant chart, simplification rules.
UNIT III
COMBINATIONAL LOGIC DESIGN: Design using conventional logic gates, Half adder, Full
adder, ripple carry adder, carry look ahead adder, BCD adder, Half subtractor, Full
subtractor, Binary adder/subtractor. Encoder, Decoder, Multiplexer, De-Multiplexer, Modular
design using IC chips, MUX Realization of switching functions Parity bit generator, Code-
converters, Hazards and hazard free realizations.
UNIT IV
SEQUENTIAL CIRCUITS – I: Classification of sequential circuits (Synchronous,
Asynchronous, Pulse mode, Level mode with examples) Basic flip-flops-Triggering and
excitation tables. Steps in synchronous sequential circuit design. Design of Synchronous and
Asynchronous Counters, Shift registers, Serial binary adder, sequencedetector.
UNIT V
SEQUENTIAL CIRCUITS - II: Finite state machine-capabilities and limitations, Mealy and
Moore models-minimization of completely specified and incompletely specified sequential
machines, Partition techniques and Merger chart methods-concept of minimal cover table.
Introduction to ASM charts, simple examples, system Design using data path and control
subsystems, ASM charts for Flip Flops and Binary multiplier
TEXT BOOKS
1. Switching & Finite Automata theory – Zvi Kohavi, TMH,2nd Edition.
2. Digital Design – Morris Mano, PHI, 3rd Edition, 2006.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. An Engineering Approach To Digital Design – Fletcher, PHI. Digital Logic –
Application and Design – John M. Yarbrough, Thomson.
2. Fundamentals of Logic Design – Charles H. Roth, Thomson Publications, 5th
Edition, 2004.
3. Digital Logic Applications and Design – John M. Yarbrough, Thomson Publications,
2006
4. Modern Digital Electronics by R.P JAIN, TMH
97
98
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EI52) PULSE AND DIGITAL CIRCUITS LABORATORY
Course Objectives
Student will be able
• To demonstrate the various wave shaping circuits
• To demonstrate generation of various non-sinusoidal waveforms.
• To demonstrate functionality of various logic gates.
• To analyze dynamic response of electronic switch
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Design function generator to generate various waveforms (Square, Pulse and
Sweep)
• Design the logic gates and Flip Flops
• DesignMultivibrators and Sweep Circuits
• Design electronic switch.
List of Experiments (Minimum 12 experiments to be conducted)
1. Linear wave shaping.
2. Non Linear wave shaping – Clippers.
3. Non Linear wave shaping – Clampers.
4. Transistor as a switch.
5. Study of Logic Gates and Some applications.
6. Study of Flip-Flops and some applications.
7. Sampling Gates.
8. Astable Multivibrator.
9. Monostable Multivibrator.
10. Bistable Multivibrator.
11. Schmitt Trigger.
12. UJT Relaxation Oscillator.
13. Bootstrap sweep circuit.
14. PCB Design using ORCAD Software
99
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EC63) ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT ANALYSIS LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
• To design and simulate various BJT and FET Voltage and Power amplifiers.
• To design and simulate various BJT Feedback amplifiers.
• To design and simulate various BJT Oscillators.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply the concepts of amplifiers in the design of Public Addressing System
• Analyze the amplitude and frequency response of different amplifiers
• Design various wave form generators
• Design stable system using feedback concepts.
List of Experiments
Design and simulation of the following circuits using simulation software and implementation
through hardware.
1. Common Emitter Amplifier with & without emitter bypass capacitor.
2. Common source Amplifier.
3. Two stage RC coupled BJT Amplifier.
4. Darlington pair.
5. Current shunt and voltage series feedback amplifier.
6. Cascode amplifier.
7. Wien bridge Oscillator using transistors
8. RC phase shift Oscillator using transistors.
9. Hartley and colpitt’s Oscillator using transistors.
10. Class A power Amplifier (Transformer less and with transformer load).
11. Class B Complementary Symmetry Amplifier.
12. Class C Tuned Amplifier.
13. MOS Amplifier.
100
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech EIE IISem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EC52) BASIC SIMULATION LABORATORY
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites: Basic concepts of Mathematics and Signal and systems
Course Objectives
Student will be able
• To learn basic Operations on Matrices
• To model generation of various signals
• To simulate operations on signals and systems.
• To simulate various random variables’ generation and processes
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Analyze various types of signals and perform various operations on them.
• Apply the knowledge of signals and sequences for finding response of a system
List of Experiments (Minimum 12 experiments to be conducted)
1. Basic Operations on Matrices
2. Generation of various signals and sequences (Periodic and Aperiodic), such as
unit Impulse step, Square, Saw tooth, Triangular, Sinusoidal, Ramp, Sinc.
3. Operations on signals and sequences such as Addition, Multiplication, Scaling,
Shifting, Folding, Computation of Energy and Average Power.
4. Finding the Even and Odd parts of Signal / Sequence and Real and imaginary
parts of Signal.
5. Convolution between Signals and Sequences.
6. Auto Correlation and Cross Correlation of Signals and Sequences.
7. Verification of Linearity and Time Invariance Properties of a given Continuous /
Discrete System.
8. Computation of Unit sample, Unit step and sinusoidal responses of the given LTI
system and verifying its Physical realiazability and stability properties.
9. Gibbs Phenomenon.
101
10. Finding the Fourier Transform of a given signal and plotting its magnitude and
phase spectrum.
11. Waveform Synthesis using Laplace Transform.
12. Locating the Zeros and Poles and Plotting the Pole-Zero maps in S plane and Z-
Plane for the given transfer function.
13. Generation of Gaussian noise (Real and Complex), Computation of its mean,
M.S. Value and its Skew, Kurtosis and PSD, Probability Distribution Function.
14. Sampling theorem Verification.
15. Removal of noise by Autocorrelation / Cross correlation.
16. Extraction of Periodic Signal, masked by noise using Correlation.
17. Verification of Weiner – Khinchine Relations.
18. Checking a Random Process for Stationary in Wide sense.
102
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE ISem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EI05) INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTATION
Course Objectives
• Understand the basic knowledge of the physical parameters like Pressure,
Temperature, flow, level, density and viscosity employed in different Industries.
• Grasp sound knowledge about various techniques used for the measurement of
industrial parameters.
• Understand the construction and working of measuring instruments.
• Analyze need and necessity of measuring instruments.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Acquire adequate knowledge about process transducers
• Acquire adequate knowledge about the temperature standards, thermocouples and
pyrometry techniques.
• Study area flow meters, mass flow meters and calibration.
• Understand various types of level measurements adopted in industry environment.
UNIT I
METROLOGY
Measurement of length - Gauge blocks – Plainness – Area using Simpson’s rule, Planimeter
– Diameter – Roughness – Angle using Bevel protractor, sinebars and Clinometer –
Mechanical, Electrical, Optical and Pneumatic Comparators. Optical Methods for length and
distance measurements using Optical flats and Michelson Interferometer.
VELOCITY AND ACCELERATION MEASUREMENT
Relative velocity – Translational and Rotational velocity measurements – Revolution counters
and Timers - Magnetic and Photoelectric pulse counting stroboscopic methods.
Accelerometers-different types, Gyroscopes-applications.
UNIT II
FORCE MEASUREMENT
Force measurement – Different methods –Gyroscopic Force Measurement – Vibrating wire
Force transducer.
103
PRESSURE MEASUREMENT
Basics of Pressure measurement –Manometer types – Force-Balance and Vibrating Cylinder
Transducers – High and Low Pressure measurement – McLeod Gauge, Knudsen Gauge,
Momentum Transfer Gauge, Thermal Conductivity Gauge, Ionization Gauge, Dual Gauge
Techniques, Deadweight Gauges, Hydrostatic Pressure Measurement
UNIT III
FLOW MEASUREMENT AND LEVEL MEASUREMENT
Flow Meters- Head type, Area type (Rota meter), electromagnetic type, Positive displacement
type, mass flow meter, ultrasonic type, vertex shedding type, Hotwire anemometer type, Laser
Doppler Velocity-meter.
Basic Level measurements – Direct, Indirect, Pressure, Buoyancy, Weight, Capacitive Probe
methods
UNIT IV
DENSITY, VISCOSITY AND OTHER MEASUREMENTS
Density measurements – Strain Gauge load cell method – Buoyancy method - Air pressure
balance method – Gamma ray method – Vibrating probe method.
Units of Viscosity, specific gravity scales used in Petroleum Industries, Different Methods of
measuring consistency and Viscosity –Two float viscorator –Industrial consistency meter.
Sound-Level Meters, Microphones, Humidity Measurement
UNIT V
CALIBRATION AND INTERFACING
Calibration using Master Sensors, Interfacing of Force, Pressure, Velocity, Acceleration, Flow,
Density and Viscosity Sensors, Variable Frequency Drive
TEXT BOOKS
1. Measurement Systems – Applications and Design – by Doeblin E.O., 4/e, McGraw
Hill International, 1990.
2. Principles of Industrial Instrumentation – Patranabis D. TMH. End edition 1997
REFERENCES
1. Process Instruments and Control Handbook – by Considine D.M., 4/e, McGraw Hill
International, 1993.
2. Mechanical and Industrial Measurements – by Jain R.K., Khanna Publishers, 1986.
3. Instrument Technology, vol. I – by Jones E.B., Butterworths, 1981.
104
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B. Tech EIE ISem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS41) BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Course Objectives
• To explain different forms of organizing private and public sector business
enterprises and to analyze the significance of Business Economics in solving the
problems of business enterprise. Also to define and analyze the concepts of Demand,
Elasticity of Demand and Demand Forecasting Methods.
• To analyze the various types of costs and to determine the level of output at which
there is neither profit nor loss. To estimate capital requirements and to describe
various sources of mobilizing funds. Also to identify least cost combinations of inputs
produce desired quantity of output.
• To describe the features of different market structure and pricing strategies.
• To explain the basic accounting concepts and conventions. To elaborate the
importance of finance function for evaluating the economic status of a business unit.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Select the suitable form of business organization which meets the requirement of
selected business also perform decision – making function effectively in an uncertain
frame work by applying concepts of Managerial Economics. Meet and manipulate the
demand efficiently and plan the future course of action.
• Apply right kind cost to reduce cost by paying attention towards the costs which can
be reduced. Take decision whether to buy or produce? Reduce the cost of capital by
selecting best source of fund mobilization and select best investment opportunity
which yields higher rate of return.
• Fix the right price which can best meets the predetermined objectives of the business
firm under different market conditions. Able to select best combination of inputs to
produce required quantity of output.
• Prepare books of accounts and know over all financial position of the business
enterprise which enables the concerned to take appropriate measures to improve the
situation. Also interpret the financial position from difference angles and initiates the
measures/ efforts in that direction.
105
UNIT I
BUSINESS AND NEW ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
Characteristic features of business; Features and evaluation of sole proprietorship;
Partnership; Joint stock company; Public enterprises and their types; Changing business
environment in post- liberalization scenario.
UNIT II
INTRODUCTION TO BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND DEMAND ANALYSIS
Definition; Nature and scope of managerial economics - demand analysis determinants; Law
of demand and its exceptions.
ELASTICITY OF DEMAND AND DEMAND FORECASTING
Definition; Types; Measurement and significance of elasticity of demand; Demand forecasting;
Factors governing demand forecasting; Methods of demand forecasting - Survey methods,
statistical methods, Expert opinion method, Test marketing, Controlled experiments, and
Judgmental approach to demand forecasting.
UNIT - III
COST ANALYSIS
Cost concepts - Opportunity cost, Fixed vs. Variable costs, Explicit costs vs. Implicit costs, and
Out of pocket costs vs. Imputed costs; Break-even analysis (BEA) - determination of break-
even point (simple problems), managerial significance, and limitations of BEA.
CAPITAL AND CAPITAL BUDGETING
Capital and its significance; Types of capital; Estimation of fixed and working capital
requirements; Methods and sources of raising finance.
Nature and scope of capital budgeting; Features of capital budgeting proposals; Methods of
capital budgeting - payback method, Accounting Rate of Return (ARR), and Net Present Value
method (simple problems)
UNIT - IV
THEORY OF PRODUCTION
Production function - isoquants and isocosts, least cost combination of inputs, and laws of
returns; Internal and external economies of scale.
MARKET STRUCTURES
Types of competition; Features of perfect competition, Monopoly, and Monopolistic
competition; Price-output determination in case of perfect competition and Monopoly.
PRICING POLICIES AND METHODS
Cost plus pricing; Marginal cost pricing; Sealed bid pricing; Going rate pricing, Limit pricing,
Market skimming pricing, Penetration pricing, Two-part pricing, Block pricing, Bundling pricing,
Peak load pricing, Cross subsidization.
106
UNIT V
INTRODUCTION TO FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING
Double-entry book keeping; Journal; Ledger; Trial balance; Final accounts - trading account,
profit and loss account, and balance sheet with simple adjustments.
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS THROUGH RATIOS
Computation; Analysis and interpretation of liquidity ratios - current ratios, and quick ratio;
Activity ratios - Inventory Turnover ratio, and Debtor Turnover ratio; Capital structure ratios –
Debt-Equity ratio, and Interest Coverage Ratio; Profitability ratios - Gross profit Ratio, Net Profit
Ratio, Operating Ratio, P/E ratio, and EPs.
TEXT BOOKS
1) Managerial Economics and Financial Analysis by Aryasri, Tata McGraw Hill, 2009.
2) Managerial Economics by Varshney & Maheswari, Sultan Chand, 2009
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Financial Accounting for Management: An analytical perspective by Ambrish Gupta,
Pearson Education, 2010.
2. Managerial Economics by H. Craig Peterson & W. Cris Lewis, Prentice Hall of India.
107
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EI06) LINEAR AND DIGITAL IC APPLICATIONS
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Course Objectives
• Study about electrical properties of analog ICs like Op-Amps, IC 555 timer, PLL.
• Analyze and know the design concepts of various applications of ICs.
• Describe the Analog to Digital and Digital to Analog conversion techniques
• Study the design concepts of Digital circuits using ICs and its applications.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Analyze the characteristics of analog ICs and logic families.
• Design applications using analog ICs.
• Design applications using digital ICs
UNIT I
INTEGRATED CIRCUITS : Classification, chip size and circuit complexity, basic information
of Op-amp, ideal and practical Op-amp, internal circuits, Op-amp characteristics, DC and AC
characteristics, 741 op-amp and its features, modes of operation-inverting, non-inverting,
differential.
OP-AMP APPLICATIONS: Basic applications of Op-amp, Instrumentation amplifier, ac
amplifier,
V to I and I to V converters, Sample and Hold circuits, Log and antilog amplifier, Precision
rectifiers, Differentiators, Integrators, Peak detector, Comparators.
UNIT II
ACTIVE FILTERS and OSCILLATORS: Introduction, 1st order LPF, HPF filters. Band pass,
Band reject and all pass filters. Oscillator types and principle of operation – RC and Wien
Bridge, Waveform generators – triangular, square wave and VCO.
UNIT III
SPECIAL ICs: Introduction to 555 timer, functional diagram, Monostable and Astable
operations and applications, Schmitt Trigger, PLL-Introduction, block schematic, principles
and description of individual blocks of 565, Introduction to voltage regulators.
D-A AND A- D CONVERTERS : Introduction, basic DAC techniques, Weighted resistor DAC,
R-2R ladder DAC, inverted R-2R DAC, and IC 1408 DAC, Different types of ADCs - parallel
108
comparator type ADC, counter type ADC, successive approximation ADC and dual slope
ADC. DAC and ADC specifications.
UNIT IV
LOGIC FAMILIES : Classification of Integrated circuits, comparison of TTL and CMOS logic
families, standard TTL NAND Gate- Analysis and characteristics, TTL open collector O/Ps,
Tristate TTL, MOS and CMOS open drain and tristate outputs, CMOS transmission gate, IC
interfacing- TTL driving CMOS and CMOS driving TTL .
UNIT V
COMBINATIONAL CIRCUITSAPPLICATIONS OF TTL74XX SERIES: Code Converters,
Decoders, De-multiplexers, Encoders, priority Encoders, multiplexers and their applications,
Priority Generators. Arithmetic circuit ICs-parallel binary Adder/Subtractor circuits using 2’s-
Complement system. Digital comparator circuits.
SEQUENTIAL CIRCUITS : RS, JK, JK Master Slave, D and T Type Flip-Flops & their
conversions, Design of Synchronous and Asynchronous counters, Decade counter, shift
registers.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Linear Integrated Circuits –D. Roy Chowdhury, New Age International (p) Ltd,
2ndEdition, 2008.
2. Digital Fundamentals – Floyd and Jain, Pearson Education, 8th Edition, 2005.
REFERENCES
1. Operational Amplifiers and Linear Integrated Circuits – R.F. Coughlin and Fredrick
F. Driscoll, PHI, 1977.
2. Operational Amplifiers and Linear Integrated Circuits:4/e William D Stanley PEI
2009.
3. Op-Amps and Linear ICs – Ramakanth A. Gayakwad, PHI, 1987
4. Operational Amplifiers and Linear Integrated Circuits by K.Lal Kishore - Pearson
education, 2008.
5. Modern Digital Electronics RP Jain 4/e TMH 2010.
Practice: Subject Practice through Multisim and Pspice.
109
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EI07) BIO-MEDICAL INSTRUMENTATION
(Common to ECE & EIE)
CourseObjectives
• Identifysignificant biological variables at cellular level and ways to acquire different
bio-signals.
• Elucidate the methods to monitor the activity of the heart,brain, eyes and muscles.
• Introduce therapeutic equipment for intensive and critical care.
• Outline medical imaging techniques and equipment for certain diagnosis and
therapies.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Understand biosystems and medical systems from an engineering perspective.
• Identify the techniques to acquire record and primarily understand physiological
activity of the human body through cell potential, ECG, EEG, BP and blood flow
measurement and EMG.
• Understand the working of various medical instruments and critical care
equipment.
• Know the imaging techniques including CT,PET, SPECT and MRI used in
diagnosis of various medical conditions.
UNIT I: Bio Potential Signals and Electrodes
Bio-signals and their characteristics, Organization of cell, Nernst equation of membrane,
Resting and Action potentials.
Bio-amplifiers, characteristics of medical instruments, problems encountered with
measurements from living systems.
Bio-potential electrodes – Body surface recording electrodes, Internal electrodes, micro
electrodes.
Bio-chemical transducers – reference electrode, the pH electrodes, Blood gas electrodes.
UNIT II: Cardiovascular Instrumentation
Heart and cardiovascular system Heart electrical acvitity, blood pressure and heart sounds.
110
Cardiovascular measurements electro cardiography – electroeardiogram, ECG Amplifier,
Electrodes and leads, ECG recorder principles.Types of ECG recorders. Principles of blood
pressure and blood flow measurement.
UNIT III: Neurological Instrumentation
Neuronal communication, electro encepherogram (EEG), EEG Measurements EEG electrode-
placement system, interpretation of EEG, EEG system Block diagram, pre-amplifiers and
amplifiers
EMG block diagram and Stimulators
UNIT IV: Equipments for Critical Care
Therapeutic equipment - Pacemaker, Defibrillator, Shortwave diathermy, Hemodialysis
machine. Respiratory Instrumentation - Mechanism of respiration, Spirometry,
Pneumotachograph, Ventilators.
UNIT V: Principles of Medical Imaging
Radiography, computed Radiography, Computed Tomography (CT), Magnetic Resonance
Imaging (MRI), Nuclear Medicine, Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT),
Positron Emission Tomography (PET), Ultrasonography, Introduction to Telemedicine.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Hand-book of Biomedical Instrumentation – by R.S. Khandpur, McGraw-Hill, 2003.
2. Medical Instrumentation, Application and Design – by John G. Webster, John Wiley.
REFERENCES
1. Biomedical Instrumentation and Measurements – by Leslie Cromwell, F.J. Weibell,
E.A. Pfeiffer, PHI.
2. Principles of Applied Biomedical Instrumentation – by L.A. Geoddes and L.E. Baker,
John Wiley and Sons.
3. Introduction to Biomedical equipment technology-by Joseph Carr and Brown.
111
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective– I 3 0 3
(5CE71) DISASTER MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives
• Understand the difference between a hazard and disaster
• Know about various disasters and their impacts
• Understand Different approaches of disaster risk reduction
• Understand Disaster risks in India
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Acquire the knowledge disaster Management
• Understand the vulnerability of ecosystem and infrastructure due to a disaster
• Acquire the knowledge of Disaster Management Phases
• Understand the hazard and vulnerability profile of India
UNIT-1
Introduction to disaster
Concepts and definitions (Disaster, Hazard, Vulnerability, Resilience, Risks)
UNIT-II
Disasters: Classifications, Causes, Impacts (including social, economic, political,
environment, health, psychosocial, etc.)
Differential impacts-in terms of caste, class, gender, age, location, disability Global trends in
disasters. Urban disaster, pandemics, complex emergencies, Climate change
UNIT-III
Approaches to disaster Risk reduction
Disaster cycle-its analysis, phase, Culture of safety, prevention, mitigation and preparedness,
community based DRR, Structural measures, roles and responsibilities of community.
Panchayati Raj Institutions/Urban Local Bodies (PRIs/ULBs), states, center and other stake-
holders.
112
UNIT-IV
Inter-relationship between Disaster and Development
Factors affecting Vulnerabilities, differential impacts, impact of development projects such as
dams, embankments, change in land-use etc. Climate change Adaption. Relevance of
indigenous knowledge, appropriate technology and local resources.
UNIT-V
Disaster Risk Management in India
Hazard and vulnerability profile of IndiaComponents of Disaster relief: Water, food, sanitation,
shelter, health, waste managementInstitutional arrangements (Mitigation, Response and
Preparedness, DM Act Policy, Other related polices, plan, programmes and legislation)
Project Work :( Field Work, Case Studies):
The project/fieldwork is meant for students to understand vulnerabilities and to work on
reducing disaster risks and to build a culture of safety. Projects must be conceived creatively
based on the geographic location and hazard.
Suggested Reading list:
1. Alexander David, Introduction in ‘Confronting Catastrophe’, oxford University press,
2000
2. Andharia J. Vulnerability in disaster Discourse, JTCDM, Tata Institute of Social
Sciences working paper no.8, 2008
3. Blaikie, P, Cannon T, Davis I, Wisner B 1997. At Risk Natural Hazards, Peoples’
Vulnerability and Disaster, Rutledge.
4. Coppola P Damon, 2007. Introduction to International Disaster Management.
5. Carter, Nick 1991.Disaster Management: A Disaster Manager’s Handbook. Asian
Development Bank, Manila Philippines.
6. Cuny,F.1983. Development and Disasters, Oxford University Press
7. Govt.of India; Disaster Management Act 2005,Government of India, New Delhi.
113
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE – I sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective-I 3 0 3
(5EE71) RENEWABLE ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES
Course Objectives:
• To provide necessary knowledge about the modeling, design and analysis of various PV
systems
• To show that PV is an economically viable, environmentally sustainable alternative to the
world's energy supplies
• To understand the power conditioning of PV and WEC system’s power output
Course Outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Model, analyze and design various photovoltaic systems
• Know the feasibility of various storage systems
• Design efficient stand alone and grid connected PV and WEC power systems
UNIT I
Introduction to photovoltaic (pv) systems:
Historical development of PV systems- Overview of PV usage in the world Photovoltaic effect-
conversion of solar energy into electrical energy.
Solar cells and arrays
Behavior of solar cells-basic structure and characteristics: types - equivalent circuit-modeling
of solar cells including the effects of temperature, irradiation and series/shunt resistances on
the open-circuit voltage and short-circuit currentSolar cell arrays- PV modules-PV generators-
shadow effects and bypass diodes- hot spot problem in a PV module and safe operating area-
Terrestrial PV module modelingInterfacing PV modules with different loads.
UNIT II
Energy storage alternatives for pv systems
Methods of Energy storage –Pumped Energy Storage – Compressed Energy Storage –
Storage batteries- lead-acid- nickel cadmium-nickel-metal-hydride and lithium type batteries.
Small storage systems employing ultra capacitors- properties- modeling of batteries.
UNIT-III
Wind Energy Conversion systems (WECS)
Basic Principle of WECS, Nature of Wind, Wind survey in india, Components of WECS, Power
Vs Speed, TSR, Maximum Power operation, WECS- Trade off- Control Requirements, Basic
Principle of Induction generator for WECS
114
UNIT-IV
Converters for PV and Wind
AC-DC Rectifier, DC-AC inverter (Basic operation) Grid interface voltage and frequency
control, Battery charger (Basic operation)
Power conditioning of PV systems
Array Design, Sun Tracking, Single axis-Dual Axis, Maximum Power point Tracking- PO
method- IC method
UNIT-V
Stand Alone systems:
PV Stand Alone, Electric Vehicle, Wind stand Alone, Standalone Hybrid systems- Hybrid with
diesel, Hybrid with Fuel cell- Mode controller- Load sharing, systems sizing, wind farm sizing-
Power and Energy estimates, , Residential systems, PV water pumping, PV powered lighting-
TEXT BOOKS
1. Patel M. R., “Wind and Solar Power Systems Design, Analysis, and Operation”, CRC
Press, New York, 2nd Edition, 2005
2. Goetzberger, Hoffmann V. U., “Photovoltaic Solar Energy Generation”,
SpringerVerlag,Berlin, 2005.
REFERENCES
1. Komp R.J., “Practical Photovoltaics: Electricity from solar cells”, Aatec
Publications,Michigan, 3rd Edition, 2001.
2. Castaner L., Silvestre S., “Modeling Photovoltaic Systems Using PSpice”, John Wiley &
Sons, England, 2002.
3. Jenny Nelson, “The physics of solar cells”, Imperial College Press, London, 2004.
115
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE I sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective – I 3 0 3
(5ME71) DIGITAL FABRICATION
Course Objectives:
• Understand the need of digital fabrication
• Understand about Two dimensional layer by layer techniques
• Know about extrusion based systems, post processing and the software issues
involved in digital fabrication
• Know the applications of digital fabrication
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
• Understand the importance of digital fabrication
• Identify different techniques involved in two dimensional layering
• Analyze the software issues involved in digital fabrication and know about extrusion
based systems and post processing
• Apply the knowledge gained in the digital fabrication
UNIT I:
Introduction to Additive Manufacturing: Introduction to AM, AM evolution, Classification of
Additive Manufacturing, Distinction between AM & CNC Machining, Advantages of AM
UNIT II:
Two- Dimensional Layer- by Layer Techniques: Stereolithography (SL), Solid Foil
Polymerization (SFP), Selective Laser Sintering (SLS), Selective Powder Building (SPB),
Ballistic Particle Manufacturing (PM).
UNIT III:
Extrusion Based Systems: Introduction, basic principles, Fused Deposition Modeling,
Materials, Limitations of FDM
Post Processing: Introduction, Support Material Removal, Surface Texture Improvements,
Accuracy Improvements, Aesthetic Improvements.
116
UNIT IV:
Software Issues for Additive Manufacturing: Introduction, Preparation of CAD Models: The
STL file, Problems with STL files, STL file manipulation, Beyond the STL file, Additional
software to assist AM
UNIT V:
AM Applications
Applications in design, Applications in Engineering Analysis and Planning
Medical Applications: Customized Implants and Prosthesis
Aerospace applications and Automotive Applications
Other Applications: Jewelry Industry, Coin Industry, Tableware Industry.
Text Books:
1. Ian Gibson, David W Rosen, Brent Stucker, “Additive Manufacturing Technologies:
Rapid Prototyping to Direct Digital Manufacturing”, Springer 2010.
2. Chuaa Chee Kai, Leong Kah Fai, “Rapid Prototyping: Principles & Applications”,
World Scientific, 2010.
Reference Books:
1. Ali K.Karmani, Emand Abouel Nasr, “Rapid Prototyping: Theory and Practice”,
Springer 2006.
2. Andreas Gebhardt, Understanding Additive Manufacture: Rapid Prototyping, Rapid
Tooling and Rapid Manufacture, Hanser Publishers, 2013.
3. Hopkinson, N.Haque, and Dickens Rapid Manufacturing: Advanced Research in
Virtual and Rapid Prototyping, Taylor and Francis, 2007.
117
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective –I 3 0 3
(5EC71) PRINCIPLES OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS
(Qualitative Analysis only)
Course Objective:
• To make students understand different types of communication.
• To make students understand different modulation technique
• To make students understand basics of wireless communications.
• To make students understand basics of cellular communications.
Course Outcome:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Analyze the techniques used for signal modulation and demodulation.
• Distinguish the need for PPM, PWM, Multiplexing.
• Learn basics of wireless networks.
• Understand the fundamental concepts of Cellular & Mobile communications
UNIT I
Introduction
Block diagram of Electrical communication system, Radio communication, Types of
communications: Analog, pulse and digital.
Analog Modulation
Need for modulation, Types of Analog modulation, Amplitude Modulation, Angle Modulation:
Frequency & Phase modulations. Generation and Demodulation techniques.Advantages of
FM over AM, Bandwidth consideration, Narrow band and Wide band FM, Comparison of FM
& PM.
UNIT II
Pulse Modulations
Sampling, Nyquist rate of sampling, Sampling theorem for Band limited signals, PAM,
regeneration of base band signal, PWM and PPM, Time Divison Multiplexing, Frequency
Divison Multiplexing, Asynchronous Multiplexing.
UNIT III
Digital Communication
Advantages, Block diagram of PCM, Quantization, effect of quantization, quantization error,
Base band digital signal, DM, ADM, ADPCM and comparison. Digital Modulation : ASK, FSK,
PSK, DPSK, QPSK demodulation, offset and non-offset QPSK, coherent and incoherent
reception, Modems.
118
UNIT IV
Introduction to Wireless Networking
Introduction, Difference between wireless and fixed telephone networks, Development of
wireless networks, Traffic routing in wireless networks.
UNIT V
Cellular Mobile Radio Systems
Introduction to Cellular Mobile System, concept of frequency reuse, Performance criteria,
uniqueness of mobile radio environment, operation of cellular systems, Hexagonal shaped
cells, Analog and Digital Cellular systems. Cell splitting.
Handoffs and Dropped Calls
Handoff, dropped calls and cell splitting, types of handoff, handoff initiation, delaying handoff,
forced handoff, mobile assisted handoff, Intersystem handoff, micro cells, vehicle locating
methods, dropped call rates and their evaluation.
Text Books
1. Communication Systems Analog and Digital – R.P. Singh and SD Sapre, TMH, 20th
reprint, 2004.
2. Principles of Communications – H. Taub and D. Schilling, TMH, 2003.
3. Wireless Communications, Principles, Practice – Theodore, S. Rappaport, 2nd Ed.,
2002,PHI.
Reference Books
1. Electronic Communication Systems – Kennedy and Davis, TMH, 4th edition, 2004.
2. Communication Systems Engineering – John. G. Proakis and Masoud Salehi, PHI,
2ndEd. 2004.
3. Wireless Communication and Networking – William Stallings, 2003, PHI.
119
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - I 3 0 3
(5CS71)Object Oriented programming Through JAVA
CourseObjectives:
• ImplementDifferent object-oriented Concepts in Java.
• Develop the concepts of Multi-Threading and IO-Streams
• Construct GUI models.
CourseOutcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Write Java programs using various programming constructs using java.
• Solve different mathematical problems using OOP Paradigm
• Design and analyze the solutions for Thread and I/O management Concepts.
• Implement the Applications involving GUI models and Events.
UNIT-I Fundamentals of Object Oriented programming:
Object oriented paradigm - Basic concepts of Object Oriented Programming - Benefits of OOP
- Applications of OOP
Java Evolution: Java Features - How Java differs from C and C++ - Java and Internet - Java
and World Wide Web - Web Browsers - Hardware and Software Requirements - Java
Environment. Overview of Java Language: Simple Java Program - Java Program Structure -
Java Tokens- Java Statements - Implementing a Java Program - Java Virtual Machine -
Constants - Variables - Data types - Scope of Variables-Symbolic Constants-Type Casting and
type promotions – Operators, Operator Precedence and Associativity - Control Statements –
break - continue- Arrays-Multi dimensional arrays, Wrapper Classes - Simple examples.
UNIT-II Classes:
Classes and Objects - Constructors – methods - this keyword – garbage collection- finalize -
Overloading methods and constructors - Access Control- Static members – nested and inner
classes – command line arguments - variable length arguments.
Inheritance: Forms of inheritance – specialization, specification, construction, extension,
limitation, combination, benefits and costs of inheritance. Super uses- final - polymorphism,
method overriding - dynamic method dispatch –abstract classes – exploring String class.
120
UNIT-III Packages and Interfaces:
Defining and accessing a package – understanding CLASSPATH – access protection
importing packages – Interfaces - Defining and implementing an interface, Applying interfaces,
Variables in interfaces and extended interfaces. Exploring java.lang and java.util packages.
Exception Handling-Fundamentals, usage of try, catch, multiple catch clauses, throw, throws
and finally. Java Built in Exceptions and creating own exception subclasses.
UNIT – IV Multithreaded Programming:
Java Thread life cycle model – Thread creation - Thread Exceptions - Thread Priority –
Synchronization - Messaging - Runnable Interface - Interthread Communication - Deadlock -
Suspending, Resuming and stopping threads.
I/O Streams: File – Streams – Advantages - The stream classes – Byte streams – Character
streams.
UNIT – V Applet Programming:
How Applets differ from Applications - Applet Life Cycle - Creating an Applet - Running the
Applet- Designing a Webpage - Applet Tag - Adding Applet to HTML file - More about Applet
Tag - Passing parameters to Applets - Aligning the display.
Event handling: basics of event handling, Event classes, Event Listeners, delegation event
model, handling mouse and keyboard events, adapter classes, AWT Class hierarchy - AWT
Controls - Layout Managers and Menus, limitations of AWT.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. The Complete Reference Java J2SE 5th Edition, Herbert Schildt, TMH Publishing
Company Ltd, NewDelhi.
2. Big Java 2nd Edition, Cay Horstmann, John Wiley and Sons
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Java How to Program, Sixth Edition, H.M.Dietel and P.J.Dietel, Pearson
Education/PHI
2. Core Java 2, Vol 1, Fundamentals, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell, Seventh
Edition, Pearson Education.
3. Core Java 2, Vol 2, Advanced Features, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell,
Seventh Edition, Pearson Education.
121
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - I 3 0 3
(5EI71) PRINCIPLES OF MEASUREMENT AND INSTRUMENTATION
Course Objectives
• To provide basic knowledge in transduction principles, sensors and transducer
technology and measurement systems.
• To provide better familiarity with the concepts of Sensors and Measurements.
• To provide the knowledge of various measurement methods of physical parameters
like velocity, acceleration, force, pressure and viscosity.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Able to identify suitable sensors and transducers for real time applications.
• Able to translate theoretical concepts into working models.
• Able to understand the basic of measuring device and use them in relevant situation.
• Able to estimate the errors in measurement by means of calibrating the different
instruments against the standards.
UNIT I
Introduction to measurements. Physical measurement. Forms and methods of measurements.
Measurement errors. Statistical analysis of measurement data. Probability of errors. Limiting
errors.
Standards. Definition of standard units. International standards. Primary standards. Secondary
standards. Working standards. Voltage standard. Resistance standard. Current standard.
Capacitance standard. Time and frequency standards.
UNIT II
PASSIVE SENSORS
Resistive Sensors: Potentiometers, Strain Gages, Resistive TemperatureDetectors
(RTDs),Thermistors, Light-dependent Resistors (LDRs), Resistive Hygrometers , Capacitive
Sensors: Variable capacitor, Differential capacitor, Inductive Sensors: Reluctance variation
sensors, Eddy current sensors
122
UNIT III
METROLOGY
Measurement of length – Plainness – Area – Diameter – Roughness – Angle – Comparators –
Gauge blocks. Optical Methods for length and distance measurements.
VELOCITY AND ACCELERATION MEASUREMENT
Relative velocity – Translational and Rotational velocity measurements – Revolution counters
and Timers - Magnetic and Photoelectric pulse counting stroboscopic methods.
Accelerometers- different types, Gyroscopes-applications.
UNIT IV
FORCE AND PRESSURE MEASUREMENT
Gyroscopic Force Measurement – Vibrating wire Force transducer.
Basics of Pressure measurement –Manometer types – Force-Balance and Vibrating Cylinder
Transducers – High and Low Pressure measurement
UNIT V
FLOW, DENSITY AND VISCOSITY MEASUREMENTS
Flow Meters- Head type, Area type (Rota meter), electromagnetic type, Positive displacement
type, Density measurements – Strain Gauge load cell method – Buoyancy method.
Units of Viscosity, Two float viscorator –Industrial consistency meter
TEXT BOOKS
1. Measurement Systems – Applications and Design – by Doeblin E.O., 4/e, McGraw Hill
International, 1990.
2. Principles of Industrial Instrumentation – Patranabis D. TMH. End edition 1997
REFERENCES
1. Sensor Technology Hand Book – Jon Wilson, Newne 2004.
2. Instrument Transducers – An Introduction to their Performance and design – by Herman
K.P.Neubrat, Oxford University Press.
3. Measurement system: Applications and Design – by E.O.Doeblin, McGraw Hill
Publications.
4. Electronic Instrumentation by H.S.Kalsi.
123
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester
L T/P/D C
Open Elective - I 3 0 3
(5IT71) CYBER SECURITY
Course Objectives:
• Identify the key components of cyber security in network
• Describe risk management processes and practices
• Define types of service delivery process and storage management process
• Access additional external resources to supplement knowledge of cyber
forensics and laws
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Categorization of cyber-crime and an understanding social, political, ethical
and psychological dimensions cyber security
• Demonstrate cyber offenses tools, methods used in cyber crime
• Document an appropriate procedure of Risk Management and Security
Standards
• Understanding computer forensics and analyzing them
UNIT-I
INTRODUCTION TO CYBER CRIME: Introduction Cybercrime: Definition and Origins of the
word, Cybercrime and Information Security, Who are Cybercriminals, Classifications of
Cybercrimes, E-mail Spoofing, Spamming, Cyber defamation, Internet Time Theft, Salami
Attack/ Salami Technique, Data Diddling, Forgery, Web Jacking, Newsgroup Spam/ Crimes
Emanating from Usenet Newsgroup, Industrial Spying/Industrial Espionage, Hacking, Online
Frauds, Pornographic Offenses, Software Piracy, Computer Sabotage, E-Mail Bombing/Mail
Bombs, Usernet Newsgroup as the Source of Cybercrimes, Computer Network Intrusions,
Password Sniffing, Credit Card Frauds, Identity Theft, Cybercrime: The Legal Perspectives,
Cybercrimes: An Indian Perspective, Cybercrime and the Indian ITA 2000, Hacking and the
Indian Law(s), A Global Perspective on Cybercrimes, Cybercrime and the Extended
Enterprise.
UNIT-II
CYBER OFFENSES: HOW CRIMINALS PLAN THEM: Introduction, Categories of
Cybercrime, How Criminals Plan the Attacks, Reconnaissance, Passive Attacks, Active
Attacks, Scamming and Scrutinizing Gathered Information, Attack (Gaining and Maintaining
the System Access), Social Engineering, Classification of Social Engineering, Cyber stalking,
Types of Stalkers, Cases Reported on Cyber stalking, How Stalking Works?, Real-Life
Incident of Cyber stalking, Cyber cafe and Cybercrimes, Botnets: The fuel for Cybercrime,
124
Botnet, Attack Vector, Cloud Computing, Why Cloud Computing?, Types of Services,
Cybercrime and Cloud Computing.
UNIT-III
TOOLS AND METHODS USED IN CYBER CRIME: Introduction, Proxy Servers and
Anonymizers, Phishing, How Phishing Works, Password Cracking, Online Attacks, Offline
Attacks, Strong, Weak and Random Passwords, Random Passwords, Keyloggers and
Spywares, Software Keyloggers, Hardware Keyloggers, Antikeylogger, Spywares, Virus and
Worms, Types of Viruses, Trojan Horses and Backdoors, Backdoor, How to Protect from
Trojan and Backdoors, Steganography, Steganalysis, Dos and DDos Attacks, Dos Attacks,
Classification of Dos Attacks, Types of Levels of Dos Attack, Tools Used to Launch Dos
Attacks, DDos Attacks, How to protect from Dos/DDos Attacks, SQL Injection, Steps for SQL
Injection Attack, How to Prevent SQL Injection Attacks.
UNIT-IV
UNDERSTANDING COMPUTER FORENSICS: Introduction, Historical Background of Cyber
forensics, Digital Forensics Science, The Need for Computer Forensics, Cyber forensics and
Digital Evidence, The Rules of Evidence, Forensics Analysis of E-Mail, RFC2822, Digital
Forensics Life Cycle, The Digital Forensics Process, The Phases in Computer
Forensics/Digital Forensics, Precautions to be Taken when Collecting Electronic Evidence,
Chain of Custody Concept, Network Forensics, Approaching a Computer Forensics
Investigation, Typical Elements Addressed in a Forensics Investigation Engagement Contract
, Solving a Computer Forensics Case, Computer Forensics and Steganography, Rootkits,
Information Hiding, Forensics and Social Networking Sites: The Security/Privacy Threats,
Challenges in Computer Forensics, Technical Challenges: Understanding the Raw Data and
its Structure, The Legal Challenges in Computer Forensics and Data Privacy Issues, Special
Tools and Techniques, Digital Forensics Tools Ready Reckoner, Special Technique: Data
Mining used in Cyber forensics, Forensics Auditing.
UNIT-V
CYBERCRIME AND CYBERTERRORISM: SOCIAL, POLITICAL, ETHICAL and
PSYCHOLOGICAL DIMENSIONS: Introduction, Intellectual Property in the Cyberspace,
Copyright, Patent, Trademarks, Trade Secret, Trade Name, Domain Name, The Ethical
Dimension of Cybercrimes, Ethical Hackers: Good Guys in Bad Land, The Psychology,
Mindset and Skills of Hackers and Other Cybercriminals, Inside the Minds and Shoes of
Hackers and Cybercriminals, Hackers and Cybercriminals: Evolution of Technical prowess
and Skills, Ethical Hackers, Sociology of Cybercriminals, Personality Traits of Cybercriminals
and Younger Generation’s views about Hacking, Information Warfare: Perception or An
Eminent Reality?, Cyberwar Ground is HOT, Cyber Jihadist on the Rise.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Cyber Security- Understanding Cyber Crimes, Computer Forensics and Legal
Perspectives by Nina Godbole and Sunit Belpure, Publication Wiley.
125
REFERENCES:
1. Management of Information Security, M. E. Whitman, H. J. Mattord, Nelson Education,
CENGAGE Learning, 2011, 3rd Edition.
2. Guide to Computer Forensics and Investigations, B. Nelson, A. Phillips, F. Enfinger, C.
Steuart, Nelson Education / CENGAGE Learning, 2010, 4th Edition
126
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE ISem L T/P/D C
Open Elective – I 3 0 3
(5AE71) PRINCIPLES OF AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
Course objectives:
• Understand the layout of an automobile and functionalities subsystems
• Provide overview on concepts of engine, cooling, lubrication and fuel systems
• Present constructional features and working of automotive driveline and running
systems
• Study the fundamentals and principles of automotive electrical systems
Course outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Explain the functionalities of automotive systems and subsystems
• Give an overview on engine and engine subsystems.
• Describe working of automotive driveline and running systems
• Discuss the concepts of automotive starting, ignition and charging systems
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION: Classification of automobiles, layout of an automobile, automobile sub
systems and their role. Types of chassis, role and requirement of a chassis frame, types of
frames, materials, loading points and types of bodies.
UNIT II
ENGINE: Classification and components of an engine, principle and working of four stoke and
two stroke SI and CI engines. Carburetor, diesel fuel injection and introduction to electronic
fuel injection system. Cooling - Necessity of cooling, air-cooling and water cooling. Lubrication
– Mist, splash and forced system.
UNIT III
DRIVE LINE: Clutches, principle, single plate clutch, multi plate clutch and centrifugal clutch.
Gear box - Need, sliding mesh, constant mesh and synchromesh gear box. Propeller shaft,
universal joint, differential, wheels and tyres.
127
UNIT IV
RUNNING SYSTEMS: Suspension systems – Objective, rigid axle and independent
suspension system and torsion bar. Steering system – Layout, steering mechanism, steering
geometry and steering gearboxes. Brake system –Principle, stopping distance, types of brakes
and actuation.
UNIT V
ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS: Starting system - Principle, working of different starter drive units
and solenoid switches. Ignition system - Conventional ignition system types, ignition advance
and retarding mechanisms. Charging system - Alternatorprinciple, construction and working,
cut-outs and regulators.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Heinz Heisler, “Advanced Vehicle Technology”. Butterworth Heinemann Publishers, 2002.
2. Crouse W H, “Automobile Electrical Equipment” , McGraw Hill Book Co., Inc., New York
3rd edition,1986.
REFERENCES:
1. Garrett T K, Newton K. and Steeds W. “Motor Vehicle”, Butter Worths & Co. Publishers
Ltd., New Delhi, 2001.
2. Kholi P L, “Automotive Electrical Equipment”, Tata McGraw Hill Co., Ltd., New Delhi, 1975.
3. Crouse W H, "Automotive Chassis and Body," McG raw Hill Book Co., 5th edition, 1976.
4. .Giri N K, Automotive Mechanics, Khanna Publications,2006.
128
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. EIE I-Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - I 3 0 3
(5BS71) PROFESSIONAL ETHICS AND HUMAN VALUES
Introduction
Human values and ethics have a significant role to play in the betterment of our society.
Ethics and values are a liberating force, enabling higher performance, better quality
relationships and an expanded sense of purpose and identity. This syllabus aims to
present a framework for understanding human values and their role in life, work, business
and leadership. It aims to transform individuals from having self-focused, survivalist
mindset that has scant regard for ethics, through to compliance with laws and conventions,
and then to the aspiration to live a higher ethical and spiritual life.
It mainly focuses on improving the capacities of leadership /management through training
in human values and professional ethics. It serves to contribute to good governance in the
organizations and foster an environment that supports and encourages just practices and
fairplay.
Course Objectives:
• To create an awareness on Engineering Ethics and Human Values.
• To study the moral issues and decisions confronting individuals and organizations
engaged in engineering profession.
• To study the related issues about the moral ideals, character, policies, and
relationships of people and corporations involved in technological activity.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Learn the moral issues and problems in engineering; find the solution to those
problems.
• Learn the need for professional ethics, codes of ethics and roles, concept of safety,
risk assessment.
• Gain exposure to Environment Ethics & computer ethics; know their responsibilities
and rights
UNIT I
Introduction to Human Values and Ethics Human Values: Morals, Values and Ethics
– Integrity – Work Ethic – ServiceLearning – Civic Virtue – Respect for Others – Living
129
Peacefully – caring – Sharing –Honesty – Courage – Valuing Time – Co-operation –
Commitment – Empathy – Self-Confidence – Character – Spirituality.
Introduction to Ethical Concepts: Definition of industrial ethics and values, Ethical rules
of industrial worker- Values and Value Judgments -- Moral Rights and Moral rules 121 --
Moral character and responsibilities -- Privacy, confidentiality, Intellectual property and the
law -- Ethics as law.
UNIT II
Understanding Engineering Ethics: Action Oriented- Ethical Vision- Indian Ethos-
Ethics Defined-Engineering Ethics: Various Connotations of Engineering Ethics, Why
Study Engineering Ethics?, Personal and Business Ethics-Ethics and the Law-Senses of
‘Engineering Ethics’ – Variety of moral issues –Types of inquiry – Moral dilemmas – Moral
Autonomy – Kohlberg’s theory –Gilligan’s theory – Consensus and Controversy –
Professions and Professionalism –Professional Ideals and Virtues – Theories about right
action – Selfinterest –Customs and Religion – Uses of Ethical Theories -Engineering as a
Profession -- Professional Societies -- Core Qualities of Professional Practitioners --
Professional Institutions, Operating in a Pluralistic Society - Environments and Their
Impact - Economic Environment -- Capital Labor-- Price Levels -- Government Fiscal and
Tax Policies – Customers -- Technology
UNIT III
Engineering as Social Experimentation – Comparison with Standard Experiments,
Knowledge Gained Conscientiousness, Relevant Information, Learning from the Past,
Engineers as managers, consultants, and Leaders, Accountability, Engineers as
responsible Experimenters – Codes of Ethics – A Balanced Outlook on Law. Engineers
and Managers -- Organizational complaint procedures - Government agencies Resolving
Employee concerns – Limits on acceptable behavior in large corporations -- Ethical and
legal considerations, Organizational responses to offensive behavior and harassment.
UNIT IV
Workplace Rights and Responsibilities Professional Responsibility: The basis and
scope of Professional Responsibility -- Professions and Norms of Professional Conduct -
- Ethical Standards versus Profession -- Culpable mistakes -- the Autonomy of professions
and codes of ethics - - Employee status and Professionalism -- Central Professional
Responsibilities of Engineers: The emerging consensus on the Responsibility for safety
among engineers, Hazards and Risks. Safety and Risk – Assessment of Safety and Risk
– Risk Benefit Analysis and reducing risk - Ethical standards vs. Professional conduct -
Collegiality and Loyalty – Respect for Authority – Collective Bargaining –Confidentiality –
Conflicts of Interest – Occupational Crime – Professional Rights –Employee Rights –
130
Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) – Discrimination - Organizational complaint procedures
- Government agencies - Resolving Employee concerns.
UNIT V
Ethics in Global Context and Global Issues: Multinational Corporations –
Environmental Ethics – Computer Ethics – Weapons Development – Engineers as
Managers – Consulting Engineers – Engineers as Expert Witnesses and Advisors – Moral
Leadership – Sample Code of Ethics like ASME, ASCE, IEEE, Institution of Engineers
(India), Indian Institute of Materials Management, Institution of Electronics and
Telecommunication Engineers (IETE), India, etc.122
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Ethics in Engineering, Mike Martin and Roland Schinzinger, McGraw Hill. New York
1996.
2. Ethics in Engineering Practice and Research, Caroline Whitbeck, Elsevier.
3. Engineering Ethics, Govindarajan. M, Natarajan. S, Senthilkumar. V.S, Prentice Hall of
India, 2004.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Ethics, Charles D Fleddermann, Prentice Hall, New Jersey,2004 (Indian
Reprint).
2. EngineeringEthics Concepts and Cases, Charles E Harris, Michael S Pritchard and
Michael J Rabins,Thompson Learning, United States, 2000 (Indian Reprint now available).
3. Ethics and the Conduct of Business, John R Boatright, Pearson Education, New Delhi,
2003.
4. Fundamentals of Ethics for Scientists and Engineers, Edmund G Seebauer and Robert
L Barry, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2001.
5. Ethics in Engineering, Fourth Edition, Mike W. Martin, Rolan Schinzinger, Mc Graw Hill
publishers
6. Engineering Ethics-An industrial Perspective, Gail Dawn Baura
7. Ethics and Values in Industrial-Organizational Psychology, Joel Lefkowitz
131
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5IT04) COMPUTER ORGANIZATION
(Common to ECE, CSE, EIE & IT)
Course Objectives
• To understand the basic structure and operation of a digital computer.
• To analyse the operations of the arithmetic unit including the algorithms &
implementation of fixed-point and floating-point addition, subtraction, multiplication
& division.
• To learn the different ways of communicating with I/O devices and standard I/O
interfaces.
• To analyse the hierarchical memory system including cache memories, secondary
memory and virtual memory.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Describe the structure and functioning of a digital computer, including its overall
system architecture, operating system, and digital components.
• Understand the impact of instruction set architecture on cost-performance of
computer design
• Differentiate the applicability of single-cycle (MIPS), multi-cycle (MIPS), parallel,
pipelined, superscalar, and RISC/CISC architectures
• Analyze cost performance and design trade-offs in designing and constructing a
computer processor including memory
UNIT I
BASIC STRUCTURE OF COMPUTERS: Introduction, Computer Evolution and performance,
System Buses, bus Structures, Improvements in Chip Organization and Architecture, The
evolution of the INTEL x86 architecture, Embedded system and the arm.
Register Transfer Language and Micro operations: Register Transfer language, Register
Transfer, Arithmetic Micro operations, Logic Micro operations, Shift Micro operations, and
Arithmetic logic shift unit.
132
UNIT II
BASIC COMPUTER ORGANIZATION AND DESIGN: Instruction Codes, Computer Registers,
computer instructions – instruction Cycle, memory reference instructions, input-output and
interrupt. Central Processing Unit: Stack organization, instruction formats, addressing modes,
data transfer and manipulation, program control, CISC and RISC.
UNIT III
THE MEMORY ORGANIZATION: The Computer System: Characteristics of Computer
Memory Systems, The Memory Hierarchy Semiconductor Main Memory, SRAM and DRAM,
External Memory, performance considerations, RAID, virtual memory, secondary storage.
MICROPROGRAMMED CONTROL: Control memory, address sequencing, micro program
example, design of control unit, hardwired control, micro programmed control.
UNIT IV
COMPUTER ARITHMETIC: Addition and subtraction, multiplication algorithms, Division
algorithms, floating-point arithmetic operations, Decimal arithmetic unit, Decimal arithmetic
operations.
INPUT-OUTPUT ORGANIZATION: Peripheral devices, input-output interface, asynchronous
data transfer, modes of transfer, priority interrupt, direct memory access.
UNIT V
PIPELINE AND VECTOR PROCESSING: Parallel Processing, Pipelining, Arithmetic
Pipeline, Instruction pipeline, RISC pipeline Vector Processing, Array Processors.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Computer Organization and Architecture – William Stallings Sixth edition,
Pearson/PHI
2. Computer System Architecture – M. Morris Mano, III edition, Pearson/PHI
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Fundamentals of Computer Organization and Design, Sivarama Dandamudi
2. Computer organization – Carl Hamacher, Zvonks Vranesic, Safeazaky, V edition,
Mc Graw Hill
3. Computer Architecture a Quantitative approach, John L. Hennessy and David A
Patterson, Fourth edition Elsevier.
4. Computer Architecture Fundamentals and Principles of Computer Design, Joseph
D/ Dumas II, BS Publication
133
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EI54)LINEAR AND DIGITAL IC APPLICATIONS LABORATORY
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Demonstrate functionalities of analog and digital ics
• Demonstrate applications of analog and digital ics
• Explore usage of ASLKV2010 Starter Kit
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Design various applications using Analog ICs.
• Verify the functionality of digital ICs
Note: Minimum of 12 experiments have to be conducted (Four from each part).
List of Experiments:
PART 1: To Verify the following Functions.
1. Adder, Subtractor, Comparator using IC 741 OP-AMP.
2. Square Wave Generator and Triangular Wave Generator using OP-AMP.
3. RC Phase Shift & Wien Bridge Oscillators using IC 741 OP-AMP.
4. 4-bit Digital to Analog converter.
5. Schmitt Trigger circuits using IC 741 & IC 555.
6. Voltage Regulator using IC 723, Three terminal voltage regulators-7805, 7809,
7912.
PART -2: To Verify the Functionality of the following 74 Series TTL ICs.
7. D-Flip- Flop – (74LS74) and JK Master-Slave Flip- Flop (74LS73).
8. Decade Counter (74LS90) and UP-DOWN Counter (74LS192).
9. Universal Shift registers – 74LS194/195.
10. 3- 8 Decoder – 74LS138.
11. 4-bit COMPARATOR -74LS85.
12. 8X1 Multiplexer– 74151 and 2X4 De-multiplexer- 74155.
PART - 3: Design of the Analog Systems using Analog System Lab Starter Kit
(ASLKV2010 Starter Kit).
13. Negative Feedback Amplifier and Instrumentation Amplifier.
14. Regenerative Feedback system, Astable and Monostable Multivibrator.
15. Integrators and Differentiators
16. Analog Filters
17. Low Dropout (LDO)/Linear Regulator.
PRATICE:
Simulation through Workbench/ Multisim software, Xilinx /Altera tool boxes.
134
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EI53) INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTATION LABORATORY
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
1. Understand the basic knowledge of measurement of Velocity, Acceleration,
Vibration, Humidity, Density, Viscosity, Sound Level and Intensity of Light.
2. Understand the construction, working and calibration of measuring instruments
3. Understand various Industrial Bus Protocols
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
1. Understand the knowledge of measurement of various parameters.
2. Understand construction, working and calibration of measuring instruments and
design .
3. Analyze various Industrial Bus Protocols
4. Design of signal conditioner for various sensors
Industrial Instrumentation:
1. Calibration of Pneumatic pressure to Current (P to I) and
Current to Pneumatic Pressure (I to P) Converters
2. Measurement of RPM using opto-coupler and comparing it with stroboscope
3. Measurement of precision Angular Velocity and RPM of a rotating Disk
4. Measurement of Velocity, Acceleration and Vibration using Piezo- electric transducer
5. Measurement of Humidity
6. Measurement of intensity of Light
7. Measurement of Sound Level.
8. Measurement of Viscosity of Edible Oil using Redwood Viscometer
9. Measurement of Viscosity of Crude Oil using Saybolt Viscometer
10. Measurement of Density
11. MEMS based Accelerometer
12. Design of signal conditioner for MEMS based Accelerometer
13. MEMS based Gyroscope
14. Design of signal conditioner for MEMS based Gyroscope
15. Experiments based on Industrial Bus Protocols
135
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5EC10) DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites: Signals and systems
Course Objectives
• Understand characteristics of discrete time signals and systems
• Analyze and Process signals using various transform techniques
• Understand various factors involved in design of digital filters and role of multi rate
signal processing.
• Understand the effects of finite word length implementation.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Analyze and process signals in the discrete domain and transform domain
• Design filters to suit specific applications
• Design multi rate systems and represent numbers in digital scenario.
UNIT I
Introduction: Introduction to Digital Signal Processing. Applications of Z-Transforms : Solution
of Linear constant coefficient difference equations, Block diagram representation of LCCD
equations. System function, Frequency domain representation of discrete time signals and
systems.
Discrete Fourier series: DFS representation of periodic sequences, Relation between Z-
transform and DFS.
UNIT II
Discrete Fourier Transforms: Properties of DFT, linear convolution of sequences using DFT,
Computation of DFT.
Fast Fourier Transforms: Radix-2 decimation in time and decimation in frequency FFT
Algorithms, Inverse FFT.
136
UNIT III
IIR Digital Filters: Analog filter approximations- Butterworth and Chebyshev , comparison of
Butterworth and Chebyshev filters. Design of IIR Digital filters from analog filters, Step and
Impulse invariance transformation techniques, Bilinear transformation method. Spectral
transformations (Analog to Analog).
Realization of IIR Filters: Direct, Canonic, Cascade, Parallel, Lattice and Ladder forms.
UNIT IV
FIR Digital Filters : Characteristics of linear phase FIR filters and its frequency response.
Comparison of IIR and FIR filters.
Design of FIR filters : Fourier Method, Frequency Sampling method and windowing methods:
Rectangular window, Hanning window, Hamming window, Bartlett window and Kaiser
window.,
Realization of FIR Filters: Direct form, cascade realization and Linear phase Realization.
UNIT V
Multirate Digital Signal Processing: Introduction, Down sampling, Decimation, Up sampling,
Interpolation, sampling rate conversion, Implementation of sampling rate conversion,
Applications of Multirate Signal Processing.
Finite Word Length Effects: Limit cycles, Overflow oscillations, Round-off noise in IIR digital
filters , Computational output round off noise, Methods to prevent overflow.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Digital Signal Processing: Principles, Algorithms and Applications – John G.Proakis,
D.G.Manolakis, 4th Edition, Perason/PHI, 2009.
2. Digital Signal Processing – A Pratical Approach – Emmanuel C.Ifeacher, Barrie. W.
Jervis, 2nd Edition, Pearson Education, 2009.
REFERENCES
1. Discrete Time Signal Processing – A.V.Oppenheim and R.W. Schaffer, PHI, 2009
2. Digital Signal Processing- Fundamentals and Applications – Li Tan, Elsevier, 2008.
3. Fundamentals of Digital signal Processing using MatLab- Robert J.Schilling, Sandra
L.Harris,Thomson , 2007.
4. Digital Signal Processing – S.Salivahanan, A.Vallavaraj, C.Gnanapriya,TMH, 2009.
5. Fundamentals of Digital Signal Processing - Loney Ludeman, John Wiley,2009.
137
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EC09) MICROPROCESSORS AND MICROCONTROLLERS
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites: Digital fundamentals, Computer Organization
Course Objectives
• To understand characteristics and architectures of various microprocessors and
microcontrollers.
• Understand basic programming concepts and software tools
• Learn various interfacing circuits necessary for various applications
• To learn various interfacing concepts.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Understand the architecture of microprocessor/ microcontroller and their operation
• Demonstrate programming skills in assembly language for processors and
Controllers
• Analyze various interfacing techniques and apply them for the design of processor/
controller based systems
UNIT I
Introduction to 8085 Microprocessor, Architecture of 8086 Microprocessor, Addressing modes
of 8086, Instruction set of 8086, Assembler directives, simple assembly language programs,
procedures, and macros. Pin diagram of 8086-Minimum mode and maximum mode of
operation.
UNIT II
Memory and I/O organization of 8086, 8255 PPI – various modes of operation and interfacing
to 8086, D/A and A/D converter to 8086 using 8255, memory interfacing to 8086.
138
UNIT III
Serial Communication standards, serial data transfer schemes, 8251 USART architecture and
interfacing, RS-232, IEEE 488 standards. Interrupt structure of 8086, Interrupt Vector Table.
Need for 8259 Programmable Interrupt Controller.
UNIT IV
Introduction to Microcontrollers, 8051 Microcontroller Architecture, I/O ports, memory
organization, counters and Timers, Serial data Input/Output, Interrupts. Addressing modes,
Instruction set of 8051, Simple programs.
Timer, serial port and Interrupts programming: Programming 8051 timers/counters, 8051
serial port programming, programming timer interrupts, programming External hardware
interrupts, programming serial communication interrupts.
UNIT V
Interfacing to 8051: A/D and D/A Converter, Stepper Motor Interface, Key Board Interfacing,
LCD Interfacing.
ARM Processor: Fundamentals, Registers, current program status register, pipeline,
Exceptions, Interrupt and the vector table.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Microprocessors and interfacing – Douglas V. Hall, TMH, 2nd Edition, 1999.
2. The 8051 microcontrollers and Embedded systems- Mazidi and mazidi, PHI, 2000.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. ARM System Developer’s Guide: Designing and Optimizing System Software-
Andrew N. Sloss, Dominic Symes, Chris Wright, Elsevier Inc., 2007.
2. Micro computer systems, The 8086/8088 Family Architecture, Programming and
Design – Y.Liu and G.A. Gibson, PHI, 2nd edition.
3. Advanced microprocessors and Peripherals – A.K.Ray and K.M.Bhurchandi, TMH,
2000.
4. Micro Computer System 8086/8088 Family Architecture Programming and Design –
By Liu and GA Gibson PHI, 2nd Edition.
5. The 8085 Microprocessor : Architecture Programming and Interfacing – K.Uday
Kumar, B.S Umashankar, Pearson , 2008.
139
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5CE72) INTRODUCTION TO GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM
Course Objectives
• To describe and define various concepts of Remote Sensing and GIS.
• To enable the students to analyze data using GIS.
• To make the students appraise the importance of accuracy in GIS.
• To enable the students to apply GIS knowledge in solving various problems in real
world scenario.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Students will be able to describe different concepts and terms used in GIS
• Students will be able to compare and process different data sets
• Students will be able to evaluate the accuracy and decide whether a data set can
be used or not.
• Students will be able demonstrate various applications GIS.
UNIT I:
Introduction to GIS: Introduction, History of GIS, GIS Components, GIS Applications in
Real life, The Nature of geographic data, Maps, Types of maps, Map scale, Types of scale,
Map and Globe, Co-ordinate systems, Map projections, Map transformation, Geo-
referencing,
UNIT II:
Spatial Database Management System: Introduction: Spatial DBMS, Data storage,
Database structure models, database management system, entity-relationship model,
normalization
Data models and data structures: Introduction, GIS Data model, vector data structure, raster
data structure, attribute data, geo-database and metadata,
UNIT III:
Spatial Data input and editing: Data input methods – keyboard entry, digitization, scanning,
conversion of existing data, remotely sensed data, errors in data input, Data accuracy, Micro
and Macro components of accuracy, sources of error in GIS.
Spatial Analysis: Introduction, topology, spatial analysis, vector data analysis, Network
analysis, raster data analysis, Spatial data interpolation techniques
140
UNIT IV: Implementing a GIS and Advanced GIS
Implementing a GIS: Awareness, developing system requirements, evaluation of alternative
systems, decision making using GIS
Advanced GIS: WebGIS concept, webGIS fundamentals, Potential of web GIS, Server side
strategies, client side strategies, mixed strategies, webGIS applications
UNIT V: Applications of GIS
GIS based road network planning, Shortest path detection using GIS, Hazard Zonation using
remote sensing and GIS, GIS for solving multi criteria problems, GIS for business
applications, Mineral mapping using GIS.
Text Books:
1. Introduction to Geographic Information systems by Kang-tsung Chang, McGrawHill
Education (Indian Edition), 7th Edition, 2015.
2. Fundamentals of Geographic Information systems by Michael N. Demers, 4th
Edition, Wiley Publishers, 2012.
3. Geographic Information systems – An Introduction by Tor Bernhardsen, Wiley India
Publication, 3rd Edition, 2010.
References:
1. Remote Sensing and GIS by Basudeb Bhatta, Oxford University Press, 2nd Revised
Edition, 2011.
2. Textbook of Remote Sensing and Geographical Information systems by M.Anji
Reddy, B.S.Publications, 4th Edition, 2012.
3. Textbook of Remote Sensing and Geographical Information systems by Kali Charan
Sahu, Atlantic Publishers and Distributors, 1st Edition, 2007.
141
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective – II 3 0 3
(5EE72) ENERGY AUDITING, CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives
• To understand the necessity of conservation of Energy.
• To know the methods of Energy management.
• To identity the factors to increase the efficiency of electrical equipment.
• To know the benefits of carrying out energy Audits.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• To conduct Energy Audit of industries.
• To manage energy Systems
• To specify the methods of improving efficiency of electric motor.
• To improve power factor and to design a good illumination system
• To calculate pay back periods for energy saving equipment.
Unit I Basic principles of Energy audit
Energy audit- definitions, concept , types of audit, energy index, cost index ,pie charts, Sankey
diagrams, load profiles, Energy conservation schemes- Energy audit of industries- energy
saving potential, energy audit of process industry, thermal power station, building energy audit
Unit II Energy management
Principles of energy management, organizing energy management program, initiating,
planning, controlling, promoting, monitoring, reporting- Energy manager, Qualities and
functions, language, Questionnaire - check list for top management
Unit III Energy efficient Motors
Energy efficient motors, factors affecting efficiency, loss distribution, constructional details,
characteristics - variable speed, variable duty cycle systems, RMS hp- voltage variation-voltage
unbalance- over motoring- motor energy audit
Unit IV Power Factor Improvement, Lighting and energy instruments
Power factor – methods of improvement, location of capacitors, p.f with non-linear loads, effect
of harmonics on p.f. , p.f motor controllers - Good lighting system design and practice, lighting
142
control, lighting energy audit - Energy Instruments- watt meter, data loggers, thermocouples,
pyrometers, flux meters, tongue testers ,application of PLC’s
Unit V Economic aspects and analysis
Economics Analysis-Depreciation Methods, time value of money, rate of return, present worth
method, replacement analysis, life cycle costing analysis- Energy efficient motors- calculation
of simple payback method, net present worth method- Power factor correction, lighting -
Applications of life cycle costing analysis, return on investment.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Energy management by W.R. Murphy & G. Mckay Butter worth, Heinemann
publications.
2. Energy management by Paul o’ Callaghan, Mc-graw Hill Book company-1st edition,
1998
REFERENCES:
1. Energy efficient electric motors by John .C. Andreas, Marcel Dekker Inc Ltd-2nd
edition, 1995-
2. Energy management handbook by W.C.Turner, John wiley and sons
3. Energy management and good lighting practice: fuel efficiency- booklet12-EEO
143
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective – II 3 0 3
(5ME72) OPTIMIZATION TECHNIQUES
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Operation Research
Course Objectives:
• To understand the classification of optimization techniques and its practical use.
• To understand about the optimization of one dimensional optimization methods.
• To know about constrained minimization methods.
• To understand Geometric and dynamic programmings
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Apply the different types of optimization techniques for different purposes.
• Formulates and solve the problems by using one dimensional unconstrained
minimization methods.
• Formulates and solve the problems (industrial/research) by using the geometric
programming.
• Formulate and solve the industrial problems by using the dynamic programming
methods.
UNIT I
Introduction: Engineering Applications; Statement of the Optimal Problem: Classification;
Optimization Techniques. Classical Methods: Single Variable Optimization; Multivariable
Optimization without any Constraints with Equality and Inequality Constraints.
UNIT II
One-Dimensional Minimization Methods: Uni-model Function; Elimination Methods –
Dichotomous Search, Fibonacce and Golden Section Methods; Interpolation Methods –
Quadratic and Cubic Interpolation Methods.
UNIT III
Unconstrained Minimization Methods: Univariate, Conjugate Directions, Gradient and Variable
Metric
Methods.Constrained Minimization Methods: Characteristics of a constrained problem; Direct
Methods of feasible directions; Indirect Methods of interior and exterior penalty functions.
144
UNIT IV
Geometric Programming: Formulation and Solutions of Unconstrained and Constrained
geometric programming problems.
UNIT V
Dynamic Programming: Concept of Sub-optimization and the principle of optimality; Calculus,
Tabular and Computational Methods in Dynamic Programming; An Introduction to Continuous
Dynamic Programming.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Optimization (Theory & Applications) – S.S. Rao, Wiley Eastern Ltd., New Delhi.
2. Optimization Concepts and Applications in Engineering - Ashok D.Belegundu and
Tirupathi R Chandrupatla -- Pearson Education.
REFERENCES:
1. Optimization: Theory and Practice, C.S.G. Beveridge and R.S. Schechter, MGH, New
York.
2. Genetic Algorithms in search, Optimization and Machine, Goldberg D. E., Addison-
Wesley-NewYork.
3. Optimization for Engineering Design Algorithms and Examples, Kalyanamoy Deb,
Prentice Hall of India.
145
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective – II 3 0 3
(5EC72) INTRODUCTION TO MICROPROCESSORS AND CONTROLLERS
Course Objectives:
• Differentiate various number systems
• Develop simple application using 8085 microprocessors
• Develop simple applications using 8051 microcontrollers
Course outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Understand basic computing concepts
• Know architecture of 8085 microprocessors and 8051 Microcontrollers
• Interface peripherals to microprocessor
• Program internal resources of 8051 microcontroller
UNIT I Introduction to Computing
Numbering and Coding Systems: Binary, Decimal, Hexadecimal and conversions, Binary and
Hexadecimal Arithmetic, Complements, Alphanumeric codes. Digital Premier, Inside the
Computer
UNIT II8085 Microprocessor
Features, Architecture and operation of 8085, Programming Model, External Memory for
8085
UNIT III Programmable Peripheral Devices
Programmable Peripheral Interface (8255), USART (8251), Programmable Interval Timer
(8253) and interfacing.
UNIT IV8051 Microcontrollers
Microcontrollers and Embedded Processors, Overview of the 8051 family, Architecture and
Programming Model of 8051, Timers and Counters, parallel and serial ports, Interrupts,
Special Function Register formats, Internal Memory Organization
UNIT V Applications
8051 Programming in C: Data types for the 8051, programs for IO operations, programs on
Timer operations, Serial IO ports, and interrupts, Case Study: DC Motor Control
146
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Microprocessor Architecture, Programming and Applications with the 8085/8080A,
Gaonkar
2. The 8051 Microcontroller and Embedded Systems: Using Assembly and C, 2nd
Edition, Muhammad Ali Mazidi,Janice Gillispie Mazidi, Rolin D. McKinlay
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. The 8051 Microcontroller : programming, architecture by Ayala & Gadre, Cengage
Publications
2. Digital Design – Morris Mano, PHI, 3rd Edition, 2006.
147
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5EC95) WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS AND NETWORKS
Prerequisite: Computer Networks
Course Objectives:
• Understand fundamentals of wireless communications
• Know basics of wireless networks
• Differentiate fixed IP and Mobile IP
• Learn design of basic wireless LAN network
Course outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the fundamental concepts of Cellular communications
• Differentiate various multiple access techniques
• Learn wireless protocols used in wireless Networks
• Understand mobile IP requirements
UNIT I
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS & SYSTEM FUNDAMENTALS:
Introduction to wireless communications systems, examples, comparisons & trends. Cellular
concepts-frequency reuse, strategies, interference & system capacity, trunking and grade of service,
improving coverage &capacity in cellular systems.
UNIT II
MULTIPLE ACCESS TECHNIQUES FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATION:
FDMA, TDMA, SSMA (FHMA/CDMA/Hybrid techniques), SDMA technique (AS applicable to
wireless communications). Packet radio access-protocols, CSMA protocols ,reservation protocols
,capture effect in packet radio , capacity of cellular systems .
UNIT III
WIRELESS NETWORKING:
Introduction, differences in wireless & fixed telephone networks, traffic routing in wireless networks –
circuit switching, packet switching X.25 protocol. Wireless data services – cellular digital packet data
(CDPD), advanced radio data information systems, RAM mobile data (RMD). Common channel
148
signaling (CCS), ISDN-Broad band ISDN & ATM, Signalling System no .7(SS7)-protocols, network
services part, user part, signaling traffic, services and performance.
UNIT IV
MOBILE IP AND WIRELESS APPLICATION PROTOCOL:
Mobile IP Operation of mobile IP, Co-located address, Registration, Tunneling, WAP Architecture,
overview, WML scripts, WAP service, WAP session protocol, wireless transaction, Wireless datagram
protocol.
UNIT V
WIRELESS LAN TECHNOLOGY:
Infrared LANs, Spread spectrum LANs, Narrow bank microwave LANs, IEEE 802 protocol
Architecture, IEEE802 architecture and services, 802.11 medium access control, 802.11 physical
layer.
BLUE TOOTH: Overview, Radio specification, Base band specification, Links manager Specification,
Logical link control and adaptation protocol. Introduction to WLL Technology.
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Wireless Communication and Networking – William Stallings, PHI, 2003.
2. Wireless Communications, Principles, Practice – Theodore, S. Rappaport, PHI, 2nd Edn.,2002.
3. Principles of Wireless Networks – Kaveh Pah Laven and P. Krishna Murthy,Pearson Education,
2002.
REFERENCES:
1. Wireless Digital Communications – Kamilo Feher, PHI, 1999Page 26 of 38
149
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective – II 3 0 3
(5CS72)OPEN SOURCE TECHNOLOGIES
Course Objectives
• Understand Perl, Python, PHP and Ruby to new situations and learn from the experience.
• Assist Perl programmer or database administrator to compile large programming set.
• Incorporate PHP into HTML files, Write basic PHP scripts, Process form input, Write and
use functions.
• Apply advanced techniques, tools, and methodologies that can be used to build complex,
scalable, PHP applications.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply regular expressions to tokenize and validate data in a variety of languages
• Utilize Ruby to solve a wide range of text processing problems
• Understand the nuances and differences in a web based environment as compared to
more traditional environments
• Distinguish variety of languages to develop interactive web applications
UNIT I
Introduction to PERL
Scripts and Programs, Origin of Scripting, Scripting Today, Characteristics of Scripting
Languages, Web Scripting, and the universe of Scripting Languages. PERL- Names and
Values, Variables, Scalar Expressions, Control Structures, arrays, list, hashes, strings, pattern
and regular expressions, subroutines, advance Perl - finer points of looping, pack and unpack,
file system, eval, data structures, packages, modules, objects, interfacing to the operating
system, Creating Internet ware applications, Dirty Hands Internet Programming, security
Issues.
UNIT II
PHP Basics
PHP Basics- Features Embedding PHP Code in your Web pages, Outputting the data to the
browser, Data types, Variables, Constants, expressions, string interpolation, control structures
. Function, Creating a Function, Function Libraries, Arrays, strings and Regular Expressions.
150
UNIT III
Advanced PHP Programming
PHP and Web Forms, Files, PHI3 Authentication and Methodologies -Hard Coded, File Based,
Database Based, IP Based, Login Administration, Uploading Files with PHI3, Sending Email
using PHP, PHI3Encryption Functions, the Merypt package, Building Web sites for the World -
Translating Websites- Updating Web sites Scripts, Creating the Localization Repository,
Translating Files, text. Generate Binary Files, Set the desired language within your scripts.
Localizing Dates, Numbers and Times.
UNIT IV
Python
Introduction to Python language, Python-syntax, statements, functions,Built-in-functions and
Methods, Modules in python, Exception Handling, Integrated Web Applications in Python -
Building Small, Efficient Python Web Systems ,Web Application Framework.
UNIT V
Ruby
Basics of Ruby, classes, objects and variable, arrays, Exception Handling ,threads, Regular
Expressions, Strings, Objects in Ruby
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Programming Perl Larry Wall, T.Christiansen and J.Orwant, O’Reiily,SPD.
2. Guide to Programming with Python, M.Dawson, Cengage Learning.
3. The Ruby Programming Language 1st Edition by David Flanagan
4. Professional PHP Programming by Jesus M. Castagnetto , Harish Rawat , Deepak
T. Veliath (WROX publication)
REFERENCES:
1. Perl Power, J.P.Flynt, Cengage Learning.
2. Perl by Example, E, QuigIey, Pearson Education.
3. Programming Ruby: The Pragmatic Programmer's Guide, by Pragmatic Dave
Thomas, Andy Thomas.
4. Professional PHP6 by WROX publication
151
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5EI72) LabVIEW PROGRAMMING
Course Objective
• Understand the new concept in measurement and automation.
• Understand how to control an external measuring device by interfacing a computer.
• Competent in data acquisition and instrument control.
• Program for networking and other applications like Digital image processing control
system and signal processing.
Course Outcome
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Develop a Virtual Instrument using LabVIEW to communicate with real world.
• Identify salient traits of a virtual instrument and incorporate these traits in their
projects.
• Experiment, analyze and document in the laboratory prototype measurement
• Develop program for application like networking, Digital image processing ,control
system, etc
UNIT I
Virtual Instrumentation
Historical perspective, advantages, block diagram and architecture of a virtual instrument, data-
flow techniques, graphical programming in data flow, comparison with conventional
programming. Development of Virtual Instrument using GUI, Active X Programming.
UNIT II
Structures and sequence
Controlling program execution with structures: While and For loops, Shift registers, Case and
Sequence structure and Sub VI
UNIT III
Composite Data and Displays
Arrays and Structures: Two dimension array, Auto Indexing to set the for loop count, Building
arrays with auto indexing, Array Acrobats, Polymorphism, Cluster Order, Cluster to pass data,
Bundling and unbundling cluster, Interchangeable arrays and cluster , Error Cluster and Error
handling functions:
Chart update modes, Single Plot chart, Wiring multiple plot chart, Single Plot verus Multiple
plot data types, The X scroll bar, clearing the chart, Stacked and overlaid plots, Multiple Y
152
scales and chart history lengths.: Activity: Temperature monitor, Graphing a sine wave, XY plot
to plot a circle, Temperature analysis and 3D graphs.
UNIT IV
Strings, File output and Signal Measurements and generation
Single line strings, online string updation, Scroll bar, Writing and reading a measurement file,
Writing and reading from a spread sheet, Computer to real world interface using LabVIEW,
Creating Ni DAQ Task in Measurement and Automation Explorer (MAX), Generating code from
MAX, DAQ timing and trigger, Multichannel and continuous acquisition, Streaming Data file
and Counting frequency and events.VI Chassis requirements. Common Instrument Interfaces:
Current loop, RS 232C/RS485,GPIB.
UNIT V
Applications
Networking basics for office & Industrial applications, VISA and IVI, VI toolsets, Distributed
I/O modules, Development of Control system, Industrial Communication, Image acquisition
and processing
TEXT BOOKS
1. Gary Johnson, LabVIEW Graphical Programming, 2nd edition,McGraw Hill, Newyork,
1997.
2. Lisa K. wells & Jeffrey Travis, LabVIEW for everyone, Prentice Hall, New Jersey, 1997.
REFERENCES
1. Kevin James, PC Interfacing and Data Acquisition: Techniques for Measurement,
Instrumentation and Control, Newnes,2000.
153
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5EI79) FUNDAMENTALS OF ROBOTICS
Course Objectives
The course is intended for students to:
· Understand the Robot coordinate system and control system
· Learn different types of Robot sensors and actuators
· Identify different types of Robot grippers and their applications.
· Acquire Knowledge on kinematics and vision systems used for different Robots
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
· Gain knowledge about basic concepts of robots.
· Appreciate the usage of different actuators, sensors and grippers in Robotics.
· Analyze the direct and the inverse kinematic problems.
· Able to identify the applications of Machine Vision in Robotics.
UNIT I:
Basic Concepts:
An over view of Robotics, classification of Robots, Robot Components, Robot degrees of freedom,
Robot Joints, Robot Coordinates, Robot reference frames, Programming modes, Robot
Characteristics.
UNIT II:
Sensors:
Sensor characteristics, Position sensors, Velocity sensors, Acceleration sensors, Force and Pressure
sensors, Torque sensors, Microswitches, Light and infrared sensors, Touch and tactile sensors,
Proximity sensors, Range finders.
Unit III:
Actuators and Grippers:
Characteristics of actuating system, Comparison of actuating systems, Hydraulic actuators,
Pneumatic devices, Electric motors, Magneto-strictive actuators, Shape-Memory Metals, Electro-
active Polymer Actuators.
Classification of Grippers, Drive system for Grippers, Mechanical Grippers, Magnetic Grippers,
Vacuum Grippers, Adhesive Grippers, Hooks and Scoops, Gripper Force analysis and design, Active
and Passive Grippers.
154
UNIT IV:
Kinematics:
Robots as Mechanisms, Matrix Representation, Homogeneous Transformation Matrices,
Representation of Transformations, Inverse of Transformation Matrices, Forward and Inverse
Kinematics with Equations.
UNIT V:
Vision:
Image acquisition, Illumination Techniques, Imaging Geometry, Basic Relationships between Pixels,
Segmentation, Description, Segmentation and Description of 3-D Structures, Recognition,
Interpretation.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Saeed B. Niku ,Introduction To Robotics : Analysis, Control, Applications ,Wiley, 2nd
Edition .
2. Deb.S.R, ”Robotics technology and flexible Automation”, John Wiley
REFERENCES
1. Mikell P Groover, Nicholas G Odrey, Mitchel Weiss, Roger N Nagel, Ashish Dutta,
“Industrial Robotics, Technology programming and Applications", McGraw Hill, 2012.
2. K.S.Fu, R.C.Gonzalez, C.S.G Lee, “Robotics- Control ,Sensing ,Vision and Intelligence
”,McGraw-Hill International Edition.
3. Klafter. R.D, Chimielewski. T.A, Negin. M, “Robotic Engineering–An integrated approach”,
Prentice Hall of India, New Delhi
155
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE IISem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5IT72) RELATIONAL DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Course Objectives:
• To describe database management systems (DBMS) concepts and relational data
model.
• To employ DBMS concepts to organize, maintain and retrieve information efficiently
and effectively from a DBMS.
• To discuss the concepts of transactions and transaction processing systems
• To examine the issues and techniques relating to concurrency and recovery in multi-
user database environments
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Describe the fundamental concepts of database management. These concepts
include aspects of database design, database languages, and database-system
implementation.
• Employ the Relational Database Model to understand the Logical and Physical
aspects of the DBMS architecture.
• Analyse and apply normal forms for real time database applications.
• Evaluation of transaction properties and file organization methods
UNIT-I
Introduction to Databases and Database Management System - Database system Applications
- Advantages of DBMS over File System - Data Models – Instances and schema - View of
Data - Database Languages -DDL-DML - Database Users and Administrator - Database
System Structure.
UNIT-II
Database Design and ER diagrams – Attributes and Entity Sets – Relationships and
Relationship Sets – Constraints - Keys - Design Issues - Entity-Relationship Diagram- Weak
Entity Sets - Extended E-R Features- Database Design with ER model - Database Design for
Banking Enterprise
156
UNIT – III
Introduction to the Relational Model – Structure of RDBMS - Integrity Constraints over
Relations – Enforcing Integrity Constraints – Querying Relational Data - Relational Algebra and
Calculus.
Introduction to SQL- Data Definition commands, Data Manipulation Commands, Basic
Structure, Set operations Aggregate Operations - Join operations - Sub queries and correlated
queries, SQL functions , views ,Triggers, Embedded SQL.
UNIT – IV
Functional Dependencies– Introduction , Basic Definitions, Trivial and Non trivial
dependencies, closure of a set of dependencies, closure of attributes, irreducible set of
dependencies- Schema Refinement in Database Design- Problems Caused by Redundancy –
Decompositions – Problem Related to Decomposition –- Lossless Join Decomposition –
Dependency Preserving Decomposition - FIRST, SECOND, THIRD Normal Forms – BCNF –
– Multi valued Dependencies – Fourth Normal Form.
UNIT-V
Transaction concept- Transaction state- Implementation of atomicity and Durability- Concurrent
executions – Serializability, Recoverability
File Organization – Organization of records in file - Data Dictionary Storage – Indexing and
Hashing – Basic Concepts , Ordered Indices,B+Tree Index files, B- tree index files
TEXT BOOKS
1. Database System Concepts, Silberschatz, Korth , Fifth Edition, McGraw hill ( 1,2,3
and 5 Units)
2. Introduction to Database Systems, C.J.Date, Pearson Education (4th Unit)
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Fundamentals of Database Systems, Elmasri Navrate Pearson Education
2. Database Management Systems, Raghu ramakrishnan, Johannes Gehrke, TATA Mc
Graw Hill(1,2,3 and 5 Units)
3. Data base Systems design, Implementation, and Management, Peter Rob and Carlos
Coronel 7th Edition.
4. Data Base Systems using Oracle : A simplified guide to SQL and PL /SQL, Shah,
PHI
157
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective – II 3 0 3
(5AE72) MODERN AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGIES
Course Objectives:
• Provide an overview on advanced engine control system concepts
• Study the concepts and drivetrain configurations of electric and hybrid electric
vehicles
• Present principle, working and automotive applications of fuel cell and solar
technology
• Awareofintelligent vehicle technologies like navigation, safety, security and comfort
systems
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply advanced engine control system concepts in engineering
• Discuss electric and hybrid electric drivetrain technologies and drivetrain components
• Describe automotive applications of fuel cell and solar technology
• Appreciate the technological advancements driver assistance systems
UNIT I
ADVANCED ENGINE CONTROLS: Concept of an electronic engine control system, electronic
fuel injection - throttle body fuel injection, multi point fuel injection, gasoline direct injection,
common rail direct injection, electronic ignition control, engine mapping, on-board diagnostics
– engine control module and powertrain control module.
UNIT II
ELECTRIC AND HYBRID VEHICLES: Electric vehicles -Layout of an electric vehicle,
performance, energy consumption, advantage and limitations. Hybrid electric vehicles -
Concepts, types of hybrid drive train architecture, merits and demerits.
158
UNIT III
FUEL CELL AND SOLAR VEHICLES: Fuel cell vehicle – Operating principle, types of fuel
cells, fuel cell options for fuel cell vehicle and fuel cell hybrid vehicle. Solar vehicle - Solar
photovoltaic cell, solar array, solar car electrical system and drive train.
UNIT IV
TELEMATICS AND COMFORT SYSTEMS: Global positioning system, geographical
information systems, navigation system, automotive vision system, adaptive cruise control
system, active suspension system, power steering and power windows.
UNIT V
SAFETY AND SECURITY SYSTEMS: Active and passive safety, airbags, seat belt tightening
system, collision warning systems, anti lock braking systems, traction control system, electronic
immobilizers, remote keyless entry, smart card system, number plate coding.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. William B Riddens, “Understanding Automotive Electronics”, 5th edition, Butter worth
Heinemann Woburn,1998.
2. Mehrdad Ehsani, Yimin Gao, sebastien E. Gay and Ali Emadi, “Modern Electric,
Hybrid Electric and Fuel Cell Vehicles: Fundamentals, Theory and Design”, CRC
Press, 2005.
3. Ljubo Vlacic, Michel Parent and Fumio Harashima, “Intelligent Vehicle Technologies”,
Butterworth-Heinemann publications, Oxford, 2001.
REFERENCES:
1. “Automotive Hand Book” Robert Bosch, SAE, 5th edition, 2000.
2. Iqbal Husain, “Electric and Hybrid Vehicles: Design Fundamentals, CRC Press, 2003.
3. “Navigation and Intelligent Transportation Systems – Progress in Technology”,
Ronald K Jurgen, Automotive Electronics Series, SAE, USA, 1998.
159
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective – II 3 0 3
(5BS72) ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Course Objectives:
• To introduce basics of entrepreneurship development and the skills set required for
innovation.
• To Understand changing business trends to enhance decision making skills.
• To learn analytical and conceptual skills of identifying opportunities and check on
their feasibility for start-ups.
• To motivate the engineers to choose entrepreneurship as a career for personal and
societal growth.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the students are able:
• To identify business opportunities and equip themselves in preparing business plans
• To analyze and evaluate different proposals and its requirements for start-up’s.
• To pitch the ideas to launch their own venture.
• To assess the impact of competition and find methods to overcome the problems in
business.
UNIT I: Entrepreneurial Skills-Opportunities
Entrepreneurship as a career, Personality and Skill Set of Entrepreneur, The Wisdom of Five
WHY’s and in action, Value and Growth-Stories of Successful Enterprises.
Innovation and Entrepreneurship: Three Learning Milestones of Innovation: Use of Minimum
Viable Product-Startup’s must tune the baseline towards the ideal-Pivot or Persevere.
UNIT II: Changing Business Environment-Role of Entrepreneur
The Role of Quality and Design, Beyond “The right place at the right time”, Current trends in
Business, Entrepreneurial Management.
160
UNIT-III: Origins Of Lean Start-up-Business Plans
The Concept of Vision to Steering: From Start-Define-Learn-Experiment to Leap-Test-
Measure-Pivot.
UNIT-IV: Validation of Projects and Products
Projects Evaluation by Budgeting Techniques, Value vs Waste, Analogs and Antilogs, Analysis
Paralysis, Why first products are not meant to be perfect-Experiences, Forecasting and
Experimenting of Products.
UNIT-V: Start-up Methods and Understanding Competition
Accelerating Start-up’s, optimization versus learning, Kanban Diagram of work as it progresses
from stage to stage, the value of three A’s: Actionable, Accessible and Auditable, Engines of
growth to determine product/market fit, adopting smaller batches, reasons for Failures in Start-
up’s, Pricing Strategies Based On Competition
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Eric Ries, “The Lean Startup”, Crown Business, New York. v.3.1.
2. Hisrich, Entrepreneurship, Tata McGraw Hill, New Delhi, 2001.
3. S.S. Khanka, Entrepreneurial Development, S. Chand and Company Limited, New Delhi,
2001.
REFERENCES:
1. Mathew Manimala, Entrepreneurship Theory at the Crossroads, Paradigms &
Praxis, Biztrantra ,2nd Edition ,2005.
2. Prasanna Chandra, Projects – Planning, Analysis, Selection, Implementation and
Reviews, Tata McGraw-Hill, 1996.
3. P.Saravanavel, Entrepreneurial Development, Ess Pee kay Publishing House,
Chennai -1997.
4. Arya Kumar. Entrepreneurship. Pearson. 2012
5. Donald F Kuratko, T.V Rao. Entrepreneurship: A South Asian perspective. Cengage
Learning. 2012
161
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5EI08) PROCESS CONTROL INSTRUMENTATION
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Identify and monitor process parameters of various processes.
• Understand the principles of controllers, degrees of freedom, and control valves.
• Recognize these principles written in form of mathematical equations for various
control applications.
• Apply these equations to analyze problems by making good assumptions and learn
systematic engineering method to solve practical process control problems.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply fundamental knowledge of mathematics to modeling and analysis of fluid flow,
level, pressure, temperature problems.
• Conduct experiments in pipe flows and open-channel flows and interpreting data
from model studies to prototype cases. Documenting them in engineering reports.
• Understand the possible disasters caused by an incorrect Design/Analysis in
hydraulic, pneumatic engineering system.
• Apply multiloop control systems in various process industries.
UNIT I
Process Dynamics
Process variables – Load variables – Dynamics of simple pressure, flow, level and temperature
process – interacting and non-interacting systems – continuous and batch process – self-
regulation – Servo and Regulator operation - problems.
UNIT II
Control Actions and Controllers and Types of Controllers
Basic control actions – characteristics of two position, three position, Proportional, Single speed
floating, Integral and Derivative control modes – PI, PD, PID control modes – Problems -types
162
of controllers -Pneumatic, Hydraulic and Electronic Controllers to realize various control
actions.
UNIT III
Controller Settings and Tuning of Controllers
Evaluation criteria – 1/4th decay ratio, I AE, ISE,ITSE, ITAE - determination of
optimum settings for mathematically described process using time response and frequency
response-tuning of controllers- process curve reaction method – continuous oscillation method
– damped oscillation method – problems.
UNIT IV
Final Control Elements and Control Valves
I/P Converter , P/I converter - pneumatic, electric and hydraulic actuators – valve Positioned -
Control valves – characteristic of control valves – valve body – Globe, Butterfly, diaphragm,
Ball valves – Control valve sizing – Cavitations, flashing - problems.
UNIT V
Multiloop Control System
Feed forward control – Feed Forward Feedback Controller (FFFBC) – Ratio control – Cascade
control – Split range – Multivariable control and examples from distillation column, Boiler
system and heat exchanger.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Automatic Process Control – by Eckman D.P. Wiley Eastern Ltd., New Delhi, 1993.
2. Process Control Instrumentation technology by Curtis.D.Johnson, Edition 8,PHI
Publishers
REFERENCES
1. Chemical Process Control : An introduction to Theory and Practice – by
Stephanopoulos, Prentice Hall, New Delhi, 1999
2. Process Control, Third Edition – Liptak B.G., Chilton Book Company, Pennsylvania,
1995
3. Process control – by Pollard A., Heinemann Educational Books, London,1971.
4. Process Control – Harriott P. , TMH, 1991
5. Process Control – by Patranabis.
Practice: Subject practice through LabVIEW software.
163
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS42) MANAGEMENT SCIENCE
Course Prerequisites: Business Economics and Financial Analysis
Course Objectives
• Understand the principles, functions, theories and practices of different
management areas and to provide them with practical exposure to cases of
success/failure in business.
• Expose with a systematic and critical understanding of organizational theory,
structures and design.
• Comprehend conceptual models of strategic management and to familiarize with
the tools of operations and project management.
• Understand the role of human relations in the management of operations and to
provide basic insights into contemporary management practices.
Course outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Function effectively in multidisciplinary teams to accomplish a common goal of
organizations.
• Apply theories to improve the practice of management.
• Appreciatethe management challenges associated with high levels of change in the
organizations.
• Develop global vision and management skills at both a strategic level and
interpersonal level.
UNIT I
Introduction to management
Concepts of management - nature, importance, and functions of management; Taylor’s
scientific management theory; Fayol’s principles of management; Mayo’s Hawthorne
experiments; Maslow’s theory of human needs; Douglas McGregor’s theory X and theory Y;
Herzberg’s two-factor theory of motivation; System and contingency approach to management;
Planning – meaning, significance, and types of plans; Decision making and steps in decision
making process; Leadership styles; Social responsibilities of management.
Organizing - Meaning, and features; Process of organization; Principles of organization;
Elements of organization; Organization chart; Span of control - Graicunas formulae;
164
Centralisation and decentralization; Types of mechanistic and organic structures of
organisation - line organization, line and staff organization, functional organization, committee
organization, matrix organization, virtual organisation, cellular organisation, team structure,
boundaryless organization, inverted pyramid structure, and lean and flat organization structure;
Their merits, demerits and suitability.
UNIT II
Human resources management
Concepts of HRM; Basic functions of HR manager - human resource planning (definition;
objectives; process), recruitment (definition; sources; techniques), selection (definition;
process), induction and orientation, training and development (definition; need; methods),
employee exit process, employee relations management, employee compensation and
benefits administration, job evaluation (objectives; process; methods), and performance
appraisals (objectives; process; methods).
UNIT III
Strategic management
Mission; Goals; Objectives; Policy; Strategy; Programmes; Elements of corporate planning
process - environmental scanning; value chain analysis, BCG matrix, generic strategy
alternatives, SWOT analysis, and steps in strategy formulation and implementation; Balance
score card; Capability maturity model (CMM)/ People capability maturity model(PCMM).
UNIT IV
Operations management
Plant location; Types of plant layout; Methods of production – job, batch, and mass production;
Work study-basic procedure involved in method study and work measurement.
Materials management
Objectives; Need for inventory control; EOQ, ABC Analysis; Purchase procedure; Value
analysis; JIT, Six sigma; TQM; Supply chain management; Stores management and stores
records.
Marketing
Functions of marketing; Marketing mix, and marketing strategies based on product life cycle;
Channels of distribution.
UNIT V
Project management – network analysis
Network analysis; Programme evaluation review technique - PERT (probability of completing
the project within given time); Critical path method - CPM (Identifying critical path); Project cost
analysis; Project crashing; Simple problems.
165
TEXT BOOK
1. Management Science by Aryasri; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill, 2009.
2. Management by James Arthur, Finch Stoner, R. Edward Freeman, and Daniel R. Gilbert
6th Ed; Publisher: Pearson Education/Prentice Hall.
3. Principles and Practice of Management - L.M. Prasad; Publisher: Sultan Chand
Publications, New Delhi.
REFERENCES
1. Principles of Marketing: A South Asian Perspective by Kotler Philip, Gary Armstrong,
Prafulla Y. Agnihotri, and Eshan ul Haque , 2010, 13th Edition, Publisher: Pearson
Education/ Prentice Hall of India.
2. A Handbook of Human Resource Management Practice by Michael Armstrong, 2010;
Publisher: Kogan Page Publishers.
3. Quantitative Techniques in Management by N.D. Vohra, 4th edition, 2010; Publisher: Tata
McGraw Hill.
4. Operations Management: Theory and Practice by B. Mahadevan, 2010; Publisher:
Pearson Education.
5. Strategic Management by V.S.P. Rao and V. Hari Krishna, 2010; Publisher: Excel Books.
166
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EC56) MICROPROCESSORS AND MICROCONTROLLERS LABORATORY
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites: Programming concepts, Instruction sets
Course Objectives
• Devices and circuits to microprocessors and microcontrollers.
• Design and develop both the hardware and software for microprocessor
/microcontroller based systems.
• To provide practical introduction to microcontrollers and microprocessors,
assembly language programming techniques and interfacing
• Connect peripheral
• Interpret specifications for any microprocessor or peripheral chip
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Enhance programming skills for simple and complex tasks used in various
engineering disciplines.
• Apply the knowledge of interfacing techniques to design processor/ controller based
systems
Note: Minimum of 12 experiments have to be conducted (Four from each part).
List of Experiments:
1. Programs for 16 bit arithmetic operations for 8086 (using Various Addressing
Modes).
2. Program for sorting an array for 8086.
3. Program for searching for a number or character in a string for 8086.
4. Program for string manipulations for 8086.
5. Program for digital clock design using 8086.
6. Interfacing ADC and DAC to 8086 / 8051.
7. Interfacing stepper motor to 8086 / 8051.
8. Programming using arithmetic, logical and bit manipulation instructions of 8051.
9. Program and verify Timer/ Counter in 8051.
167
10. Program and verify Interrupt handling in 8051
11. UART Operation in 8051.
12. Communication between 8051 kit and PC.
13. Interfacing LCD to 8051.
14. Interfacing Matrix / Keyboard to 8051.
168
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS03)ADVANCED ENGLISH COMMUNICATION LABORATORY
Introduction This
course aims to offer students a practical approach to Technical Writing, and provide a relevant,
contemporary and authoritative introduction to the dynamic field of technical communication
that prepares them for Workplace Communication. Each unit in the syllabus is devised so as
to include a writing component as well as an oral component.
Course objectives:
• enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content to write
business letters, resume, SOP, Proposals and Technical Reports for
academics as well as for workplace
• enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific
target audience
• groom students to speak accurately and fluently and prepare them for real
world activities through behavioral skills.
• train students in soft skills through role play and group discussion to improve
their EQ.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• summarize and synthesize information and produce technical writing that is required
in academics as well as in the engineering profession
• write covering letters, resume, SOP, Project Proposals and Technical Reports
• speak fluently and address a large group of audience and participate in debates and
discussions.
• negotiate terms, manage complex situations through interpersonal skills, persuade
people and make quick decisions.
Methodology
Writing Component
A Process- Genre methodology will be used in teaching the technical genres. This method
would enable students to understand the use of particular lexico-grammatical patterns required
of in the context of technical writing. They would learn to use language to express the particular
communicative intent that is required of in the context of writing these genres.
Syllabus Outline
UNIT I
• Oral Communication :Talking About Yourself
• Applications and Covering letters
• Resume Writing
169
• Verbal Ability: Vocabulary ( Technical and Non-Technical) reading and listening
(analysis and reasoning)
UNIT II
• Oral Communication: Making Presentations
• Writing an SOP
• Summarizing and Synthesizing Information
UNIT III
• . Oral Communication: Group Discussions
• Writing Abstracts
UNIT IV
• Oral Communication : Debate
• Writing Reports
Unit V
Soft Skills
REQUIRED TEXT AND MATERIALS
1. Ashraf Rizvi, M (2005). Effective Technical Communication, Tata Mc Graw Hill
Publishing Company Limited, New Delhi.
2. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical
Communication: A Reader-Centered Approach ( 5th ed..) (pp. 457-473). Boston:
Heinle.
3. William S. Pfeiffer, (2012) Technical Communication: A Practical Approach (7th ed.)
Longman
REFERENCES
1. Burnett, Rebecca. Technical Communication. 5th Ed., Heinle, 2001.
2. Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson : Technical Writing Process and Product. 3rd
edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
3. Markel, Mike. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies (8th EDITION
(2006-2007)
4. R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan, Business Correspondence and Report Writing, Third
Edition, TMH, 2002. (Indian Edition)
5. M. Raman and S. Sharma, Technical Communication : Principles and Practices,
OUP, 2004. (Indian Edition)
170
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EI55) PROCESS CONTROL INSTRUMENTATION LABORATORY
Course Objectives
• Identify and obtain process parameters of various processes in the prototype
model.
• Understand the working of Actuators, Converters, Controllers and Control Valves.
• Acquire the working knowledge of different controller types, modes of control
actions, tuning of controllers and control schemes.
• Learn systematic engineering methodologies to solve practical process control
problems.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Do mathematical modeling of different process to analyze its time response.
• Apply the control system knowledge to monitor and control industrial parameters
like flow, level, pressure, temperature, pH problems.
• Identify optimal values for PID controller and realize Electronic, Pneumatic and
Hydraulic Control actions for different applications.
• Learn to apply software tools typically used by process control professionals.
List of Experiments
1. Realization of PID control actions and time response analysis with electronic controllers for
First and Second Order Systems Using Process Controller Simulator.
2. Effect of ON-OFF, P, PI, PD and PID controller on Liquid Level Process Dynamics.
3. Temperature control process with PID Control Action.
4. Servo and Regulator operation for Set point tracking and Disturbance Rejection for DC Servo
Motor.
5. Realization of control actions with Pneumatic and Hydraulic Actuation.
6. Optimum Controller settings with Process reaction curve tuning method Using Process
Controller Simulator.
7. Optimum Controller settings with continuous and damped oscillation tuning method Using
Process Controller Simulator.
8. Effect of ON-OFF, P, PI, PD and PID controller on Flow Process Dynamics.
9. Experimental analysis of Control valve characteristics (Different types).
10. Realization of Feed forward control System for Flow-Level Process Station.
11. Multi loop control systems for Flow-Level Process Station using Ratio Control.
12. Multi loop control systems for Flow-Level Process Station using Cascade Control.
13. Mathematical Modeling and Time Response Analysis of Interacting and non interacting
system.
14. Neutralization of waste water using PID controller for pH Control System.
PRACTICE: Simulation through Lab VIEW software.
171
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5EI09) VIRTUAL INSTRUMENTATION
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Develop virtual instruments for specific application using LabVIEW software.
• Ease the programming required to make computer interact with real world.
• To acquire, analyze and display the throughput of any compactible system.
• Knowledge to connect with third party software and hardware
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Create Virtual Instrument using LabVIEW software for Control system, Signal
Processing and Image processing applications.
• Create effective Virtual Instrument that shall use minimum memory space and work
effectively with any processor.
• Interface the computer with DAQ to monitor, process and control real world
applications
• Analyze the throughput using the tools in LabVIEW software
UNIT I
Virtual Instrumentation:
An introduction
Historical perspective, advantages, blocks diagram and architecture of a virtual instrument,
data-flow techniques, graphical programming in data flow, comparison with conventional
programming..
UNIT II
VI programming techniques
VIs and sub-VIs, loops and charts, arrays, clusters and graphs, case and sequence structures,
formula nodes, local and global variables, string and file I/O, Instrument Drivers, mathscript .
172
UNIT III
VI Interface requirements
Common Instrument Interfaces: Current loop, RS 232C/ RS485, GPIB. Bus Interfaces: USB,
PCMCIA, VXI, SCSI, PCI, PXI, Firewire. PXI system controllers, Ethernet control of PXI, VISA
and IVI, Data Acquisition Hardware
UNIT IV
Application of Virtual Instrumentation
Application of Virtual Instrumentation: Instrument Control using RS-232C and IEEE488,
Development of Virtual Instrument using GUI, Real-time systems, Embedded Controller, OPC,
Active X programming, Publishing measurement data in the web.
UNIT V
VI toolsets
Distributed I/O modules, Control Design and Simulation, Digital Signal processing tool kit,
Image acquisition and processing, Motion control
TEXTBOOKS
1. LabVIEW Graphical Programming, Gary Johnson, Second edition, McGraw Hill,
Newyork, 1997.
2. LabVIEW for everyone, Lisa K. wells & Jeffrey Travis Prentice Hall, New Jersey,
1997.
REFERENCES
1. Kevin James, PC Interfacing and Data Acquisition: Techniques for Measurement,
Instrumentation and Control, Newnes, 2000.
2. Rick Bitter ,LabVIEW advanced programming technique, 2nd Edition, CRC
Press,2005
3. Jovitha Jerome, Virtual Instrumentation using LabVIEW, 1st Edition, PHI, 2001.
WEB RESOURCES
www.ni.com
www.ltrpub.com
PRATICE: Subject practice through LABVIEW software.
173
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EI10) ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTATION
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Students will be introduced to a whole array of modern analytical instrumentation with
the goal of providing them with the tools with which they can further their applied
research.
• The emphasis will be a "hands-on" approach with sample preparation, theory,
application, method development, data analysis and interpretation being key
elements.
• Interpret data derived from any of the above mentioned spectroscopic instruments
• Appreciate the basic concept, principles and terms of chromatography
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Understand the principles,procedures and applications of Analytical Instrument and
analytical techniques
• Use statistical method for evaluating and interpreting data
• Appreciate the basic principles of spectroscopy and chromatography techniques.
• Integrate different analytical techniques to solve analytical and bio-analytical
problems
UNIT I
Electrochemical Instruments
Basic concepts of Analytical Instrumentation, Electro chemical instruments- pH meter,
Conductivity meter, Dissolved oxygen analyzers, sodium analyzers, silica analyzers
UNIT II
Spectrophotometers-I (Absorption)
Concepts of Spectrometry, Beer- Lambert’s law-Derivation of Beer Lamberts Law- Problems
associated with the Law. UV, VIS spectrophotometers – single beam and double beam
instruments – Instrumentaion associated with the above spectrophotometers – sources and
detectors.
IR Spectrometers – sources and detector, Instrumentation associated with the above
spectrophotometers, FTIR. Interpretation and Analysis.
174
Spectrophotometers-II (Emission)
Flame emission and Atomic emission spectrophotometers – Sources for Flame Photometers,
Online calorific value measurements.
UNIT III
Gas and Liquid Chromatographs
Chromatography – types- Basic principles of gas chromatography, liquid chromatography
(HPLC) ---- different types of columns, detectors, recorders and associated equipment for Gas
and Liquid Chromatographs and their applications,Interpretation and Analysis.
Principles of Nuclear Magnetic Resonance
Instrumentation associated with NMR spectrophotometer – Introduction to mass
spectrophotometers, Introduction and Working Principle of Electron Spin Resonance
(ESR),Interpretation and Analysis.
UNIT IV
Gas Analyzers-I
Analysis using Thermal conductivity principle, Katharometer – oxygen analyzers using
paramagnetic principle, H S analyzer system.
2
Gas Analyzers-II
CO monitors, NOx analyzers, Industrial analyzer circuits, Pollution Monitoring systems
UNIT V
Thermal Analyzers
Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC), Derivative Thermo Gravimetric Analyzers(DTGA).
Nuclear Radiation Detectors
Gas filled Detectors- GM counters, Scintillation counter, Ionization chamber, Proportional
counter, solid state detector.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Handbook of Analytical Instrumentation, R.S. Khandpur, TMH.
2. Instrumental Method of Analysis- by Willard.H.H, Merrit L.L,Dean,
D.VanNostrand, CBS publishing and Distributors, 6/e, 1995.
REFERENCES
1. Process Measurement and Analysis- by B.G. Liptak, CRC Press
2. Principles of Instrumental Analysis- by Skoog D.A and West D.M, Holt Sounder
publication,Philadelphia,1985
3. Instrument Technology- by Jones B.E, Butterworth Scientific Publications,
London, 1987.
175
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EI11) PC BASED INSTRUMENTATION
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• It is to provide and ensure a comprehensive understanding of using personal
computers in measurement and control instrumentation.
• Learn the process of collecting information/ data through PC from real world
sources.
• Learn remote and networked data acquisition and operating system.
• Learn programmable logic controllers, and its application.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Understand the main functional units in a PC and be able to explain how they
interact. They should know different bus types, and on this basis be able to
distinguish account for different generations of PCs.
• Understand the basics of PLC and its programming.
• Apply different PLC functions to applications.
• Learn the basics of SCADA.
UNIT I
Review of Computer Instrument Communication:
Personal Computer, Overview of operating System, I/O Ports, Plug-in-slots, PCI bus,
Operators Interface. Computer Interfacing for Data Acquisition and Control – Interfacing Input
Signals, Output system with continuous actuators. Data Acquisition and Control using Standard
Cards: PC expansion systems, Plug-in Data Acquisition Boards; Transducer to Control room,
Backplane bus – VXI.
UNIT II
Programmable logic controller (PLC) basics:
Definition, Overview of PLC systems, input/output modules, Power supplies and Isolators.
Basic PLC programming:
Programming On-Off inputs/ outputs. Creating Ladder diagrams, Basic PLC functions, PLC
Basic Functions, register basics, timer functions, counter functions.
176
UNIT III
PLC intermediate and advanced functions
Arithmetic functions, Number comparison functions, Skip and MCR functions, data move
systems. Utilizing digital bits, sequencer functions, Matrix functions. PLC Advanced functions:
Analog PLC operation, Networking of PLC,
UNIT IV
Application of PLC
Controlling of Robot using PLC, PID control of continuous processes, Continuous Bottle-filling
system, Batch mixing system, 3-stage air conditioning system, Automatic frequency control of
Induction heating
Related Topics
Alternate programming languages. Auxiliary commands and functions.PLC installation,
troubleshooting and maintenance. Field bus: Introduction, concept. HART protocol: Method of
operation, structure, and applications. Smart transmitters, smart valves and smart actuators.
UNIT V
SCADA BASICS
Computer Process interface for Data Acquisition and control – Computer control loops.–
Supervisory Digital Control (SCADA) - introduction and brief history of SCADA – SCADA
Hardware and software – Landlines for SCADA – use of modems in SCADA – SCADA with
LAN
TEXT BOOKS
1. Programmable Logic Controllers – Principles and Applications, John. W .Webb
Ronald A Reis , Fourth edition, Prentice Hall Inc., New Jersey, 1998.
2. Computer Control of Processes – M.Chidambaram. Narosa 2003
REFERENCES
1. Introduction to Programmable Logic Controllers - Gary Dunning Thomson Delmar
Learning Second Edition Second reprint 2003.
2. PC Based Instrumentation and Control Third Edition by Mike Tooley ; Elsevier.
3. PC Interfacing and Data Acquisition Techniques for Measurement, Instrumentation
and Control.
By Kevin James; Elsevier.
4. Practical Data Acquisition for Instrumentation and Control Systems by John Park and
Steve Mackay.
5. Programmable Logic Controllers, Second edition, Frank D. Petruzella,Mc Graw Hill,
Newyork, 1997.
177
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective I 3 0 3
(5EI73) INSTRUMENTATION PRACTICES IN INDUSTRIES
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Identify and quantitatively estimate different materials required for the
manufacturing of Cement, Pulp, Paper, food, Power and pharmacy.
• Understand the principles of different manufacturing processes.
• Recognize these principles written inform of mathematical & chemical
equations.
• Apply these equations to analyze problems by making good assumptions and
learn systematic engineering method to solve practical industrial problems.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply fundamental knowledge of chemistry & instrumentation to modeling and
analysis of different Industrial engineering.
• Understand disasters caused by an incorrect analysis/design indifferent Industrial
engineering system.
• Students will demonstrate a working knowledge of the basic principles of measuring
techniques.
and demonstrate technical knowledge and skills in the calibration and use of
equipment used in different industrial process measurement and control.
• Students will demonstrate a working knowledge of safety practices and skills in
trouble-shooting problems used in the measurement and control in industrial
processes
UNIT I
Cement Industries
Corrosion Analyzer Porositester Compressive strength measurement, Blast Furnace
Temperature Measurement using Radiation Pyrometers.
UNIT II
Pulp and Paper Industries
Manufacture of pulp: Raw materials, Pulping processes, Craft pulping, Soda pulping, Sulfite
pulping, Semi chemical pulping, Mechanical and Thermo mechanical Pulping.
Manufacture of paper: Wet Processing, Fourdrinier Machine, Coated Papers, Special Papers.
178
Wet-end Instrumentation:
Pressure: Force Balanced, Bell and Limp or Slack type systems
Temperature: Liquid in Glass, Thermal bulbs, Resistance Bulbs
Liquid Density and Specific Gravity: Fixed Volume, Differential Pressure, Nuclear Radiation
Level: Liquid Level- Continuous Purge Instrument, Diaphragm box, Float and Cable,
Capacitive.
Solid Level- Diaphragm solids.
Flow: Tapered tube & float type meter, Cylinder & Piston type meter, Weir and Flumes
Consistency: Atmospheric with Driven and Atmospheric with Stationary Sensors.
pH: pH Electrode system, types of electrodes.
Oxidation Reduction Potential (ORP): ORP Electrode system, electrode holders.
Freeness: Continuous Sample and Intermittent Sample Systems.
Dry-end Instrumentation:
Moisture: Conductivity, Resistance, Capacitance, Hygroscopic, Infrared Absorption type
systems
Basis Weight: Transmission type, On-Machine type, Off-Machine type and Backscatter type
systems
Caliper or Thickness: Contacting type- Electrical, Mechanical and Electro Mechanical, Non-
Contacting type
UNIT III
Petroleum Industries
Unit Operations: Distillation, Drying Separation Measurements in refineries petrochemical
industries –Differential pressure transmitter, Thermocouples Infrared Pyrometer, Mass flow
meters, Potentiometric level Transmitter, Vacuum Measurement, Near Infrared Analyzer,
Hydro Carbon Dew point meter IR Spectrometry, Mass Spectrometry, Flame Ionization
Detectors, Chromatography.
UNIT IV
Nuclear Power Plant
Introduction, The power plant scheme, Pressure, flow and level measurement, Vibration and
expansion measurements, Analysis of impurities in cooling water, Flue Gas analysis, Ultrasonic
Thermometry, Radiation Pyrometry, Emittance measurement.
UNIT V
Food Processing and Allied Industries
Chromatography, Spectrometry – Mass Spectrometer, Toxicity meter.
179
TEXT BOOKS
1. Chemical Process Industries, Austin G.T. Shreeves, McGraw-Hill International
student edition, Singapore, 1985
2. Pulp and Paper Industry Technology & Instrumentation, Sankaranarayana, P.E.,
Kothari’s Deskbook.
REFERENCES
1. An Introduction to Paper Industry Instrumentation, John R Lavigne, Miller Freeman
Publications, Califirnia, 1985 Series.
2. Process measurement and analysis, Liptak B.G., Third edition, Chilton book
Company, 1996.
3. Mearsurement and Control in Papermaking, Robert J. McGill, Adam Hilger Limited,
Bristol, 1980.
4. Process/ industrial instruments and controls hand book, Gregory K. McMillan,
Doig;as M. Considine.
5. Instrumentation in process industries, Liptak B.G., Chilton book Company, 1994.
180
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective I 3 0 3
(5EE79) DIGITAL CONTROL SYSTEMS
Course Objectives
Student will be able
• To facilitate the knowledge of basic of digital control system for the real time
analysis
• To analyze and design the controllers for digital sytems.
• To provide comprehensive knowledge of concepts of stability analysis and design of
discrete time systems.
• To expose the students to the concepts of optimal control for discrete domain
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• To expose the students to the concepts of Digital control systems.
• To provide adequate knowledge of discrete systems in state variable analysis.
• To teach about the concept of stability analysis and design of discrete time systems.
• To provide comprehensive knowledge of optimal control.
UNIT I
SAMPLING AND RECONSTRUCTION
Introduction, sample and hold operations, sampling theorem, Reconstruction of original signal
from sampled signal.
THE Z – TRANSFORMS
Introduction, Linear difference equations, pulse response, Z – Transforms, Theorems of Z –
Transforms, the inverse Z – Transforms, Modified Z- Transforms
Z-PLANE ANALYSIS OF DISCRETE-TIME CONTROL SYSTEM
Z-Transform method for solving difference equations; Pulse transfer function, Pulse transfer
function of closed loop system, block diagram analysis of sampled – data systems, mapping
between s-plane and z-plane: primary strips and complementary strips.
181
UNIT II
STATE SPACE ANALYSIS
State Space Representation of discrete time systems, Pulse Transfer Function Matrix solving
discrete time state space equations, State transition matrix and it’s Properties, Methods for
Computation of State Transition Matrix, Discretization of continuous time state – space
equations
CONTROLLABILITY AND OBSERVABILITY
Concepts of Controllability and Observability, Tests for controllability and Observability. Duality
between Controllability and Observability, Controllability and Observability conditions for Pulse
Transfer Function
UNIT III
STABILITY ANALYSIS
Stability Analysis of closed loop systems in the Z-Plane.Jury stability test – Stability Analysis
by use of the Bilinear Transformation and Routh Stability criterion. Stability analysis using
Liapunov theorems.
UNIT IV
DESIGN OF DISCRETE TIME CONTROL SYSTEM BY CONVENTIONAL METHODS
Design based on the frequency response method – Bilinear Transformation and Design
procedure in the w-plane, Lead, Lag and Lead-Lag compensators and digital PID controllers.
Design of digital control through deadbeat response method.
UNIT V
STATE FEEDBACK CONTROLLERS AND OBSERVERS
Design of state feedback controller through pole placement – Necessary and sufficient
conditions, Ackerman’s formula.
State Observers – Full order and Reduced order observers.
LINEAR QUADRATIC REGULATORS
Introduction to adaptive controls, Min/Max principle, Linear Quadratic Regulators, Kalman state
estimation through Kalman filter.
182
TEXT BOOKS
1. Discrete-Time Control systems - K. Ogata, Pearson Education/PHI,
2nd Edition
2. Digital Control and State Variable Methods by M.Gopal, TMH
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Digital Control Systems, Kuo, Oxford University Press, 2ndEdition, 2003.
2. Digital Control Engineering, M.Gopal, New age international publishers
183
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective I 3 0 3
(5IT08) OPERATING SYSTEMS
(Common to ECE, CSE, EIE& IT)
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Analyze the tradeoffs inherent in operating system design.
• Summarize the various approaches to solving the problem of mutual exclusion in an
operating system.
• Evaluate the trade-offs in terms of memory size (main memory, auxiliary memory)
and processor speed.
• Understand disk storage strategies and file strategies with protection and security
issues.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Identify System calls and evaluate process scheduling criteria of OS.
• Develop procedures for process synchronization and scheduling services of an OS.
• Distinguish disk access, file systems supported by an OS.
• Extend operating systems virtual memory, protection and security aspects.
UNIT I
Computer System and Operating System Overview: Overview of Computer System
hardware, Operating System Objectives and functions, Evolution of operating System,
Example Systems. Operating System Services, System Calls, System Programs.
Process Management: Process Description, Process Control Block, Process States
UNIT II
CPU Scheduling: Basic Concepts, Scheduling Criteria, Scheduling Algorithms and evaluation,
Threads Overview, Threading issues.
Concurrency: Cooperating Processes, Inter-process Communication, Principles of
Concurrency, Mutual Exclusion, Software and hardware approaches, Semaphores, Monitors,
Message Passing, Classic problems of synchronization.
184
UNIT III
Principles of deadlock: System Model, Deadlock Characterization, Methods for handling
Deadlocks, Deadlock Prevention, Deadlock avoidance, Deadlock detection, Recovery from
Deadlocks, Dining philosopher’s problem.
UNIT IV
Memory Management: Basic concepts, Swapping, Contiguous memory allocation, Paging,
Segmentation, Virtual memory, Demand paging, Page-replacement algorithms, Thrashing.
Secondary storage structure: Disk structure; Disk scheduling, Disk management, Swap-
space Management, RAID structure, Stable-storage Implementation, Tertiary-Storage
Structure
UNIT V
File Management: File system-File concepts, Access methods, Directory structure, File
system mounting, File sharing and Protection. Implementing file systems-File system structure
and implementation, Directory implementation, Allocation methods, Free-space management,
Efficiency and performance
Protection & Security: Protection mechanisms, OS Security issues, threats, Intruders,
Viruses, Case studies: windows, Unix, Linux.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Operating System Principles- Abraham Silberchatz, Peter B. Galvin, Greg Gagne 7th
Edition, John Wiley.
2. Operating Systems - Internal and Design Principles, Stallings, Fifth Edition-2005,
Pearson education/PHI
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Operating System A Design Approach-Crowley,TMH.
2. Modern Operating Systems, Andrew S Tanenbaum 2nd edition Pearson/PHI.
3. “An Introduction to Operating Systems, Concepts and Practice”, PHI, 2003 - Pramod
Chandra P. Bhat.
4. Operating Systems – A concept based approach – DM Dhamdhere – 2nd Edition TMH
185
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective I 3 0 3
(5EI74) PRINCIPLES AND APPLICATION OF NANOTECHNOLOGY
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Physics, Engineering Chemistry, Electronic Devices &
Circuits
Course Objectives
• Introduce the multidisciplinary nature of nanotechnology and its applications
• Outline various nanomaterials and methods manipulating these materials for wide
variety of applications
• Introduce Instrumentation for nanoscale measurements
• Enumerate specific applications of nanotechnology to electronics and medicine
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Evaluate the design considerations for nanoscale materials, devices, and structures
in a wide variety of applications
• Gain theoretical knowledge to synthesize, manipulate, characterize, and use
nanomaterials for typical applications
• Appreciate the need for specialized metrology for nanoscale measurements and
familiarize with various commonly used equipment
• Identify the applications of nanotechnology to electronics with focus on the use of III-
V compounds and carbon nano-tubes and Learn the advancements in the field of
medicine due to the advent of nanotechnology.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO NANOTECHNOLOGY
Introduction & History: Overview of atomic physics; Chemistry of atoms and molecules;
Overview of quantum mechanics; Feynman’s perspective of nanoscience; Social impact of
nanotechnology; Motivation, Top-down vs. Bottom-up approaches
Applications: Electronics, instrumentation, medicine, aerospace, and material science.
Considerations: Size constraints on measurements; Constraints of thin-film structures,
constraints due to dimensions of nanostructures; Optical, Electronic, and Magnetic Properties
at Nanoscale
186
UNIT II
NANOMATERIALS AND FABRICATION
Introduction to Nanomaterials: Metal Nanomaterials, Semiconductor nanomaterials,
Quantum Dots, Quantum Wells, 2-terminal Quantum Wires, Buckyballs, Carbon Nanotubes,
Nano Peapods, Nano Rods, Polymer-based Nanostructures, Gold Nanostructures: Nano-rods,
Nano-cages, Nano-shells
Fabrication Techniques: Top-down approach – Nanolithography, CVD; Bottom-up approach
– sol-gel process, chemical synthesis, wet deposition techniques, Self-assembly and Layer-by-
layer assembly (LbL)
UNIT III
NANOSCALE MEASUREMENTS
Instrumentation: Principle of working, Operational aspects, Limitations, and Applications for:
SEM, TEM, STM, SPM, AFM, Fluorescence microscopy
UNIT IV
NANOELECTRONICS
Materials: Graphene, Boron Nitride Nano-mesh, III-V compounds: GaAs, GaN, AlGaN,
InGaAs, High-K/Metal-Gate applications for non-Si nanoelectronics
Devices: Silicon nanowires, Carbon Nanotubes, III-V Quantum Wells, Ballistic deflection
transistors (BDT)
Applications: Printed electronics, Molecular electronics, Spintronics, Nanoelectronic displays,
Memory devices, Electronics modelled after living systems
UNIT V
NANOMEDICINE
Nanoprinting of DNA, RNA, and proteins; Site-directed drug delivery: Discovery, delivery, and
controlled drug release; Cytotoxicity of Nanoparticles; Nanotechnology in regenerative therapy;
Nanotechnology in cancer treatment; NEMS sensors and biosensors; Lab on a Chip (LoC)
TEXTBOOKS
1. Poole, C.; Owens, F., “Introduction to Nanotechnology”, Wiley, 2007 (ISBN: 978-
8126510993)
2. Ramachandra, M.S.; Singh, S., “Nano Science and Nanotechnology: Fundamentals
to Frontiers”, Wiley India Pvt. Ltd., 2013 (ISBN: 978-8126542017)
3. Pradeep, T., “Nano: The Essentials: Understanding Nanoscience and
Nanotechnology”, McGraw Hill India, 2007 (ISBN:978-0070617889)
187
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Bhushan, B. (Ed.), “Springer Handbook of Nanotechnology”, Springer, 2006 (ISBN:
978-3540298557)
2. Theodore, L., “Nanotechnology: Basic Calculations for Engineers and Scientists”,
Wiley India Pvt. Ltd., 2011 (ISBN: 978-8126529667)
3. Varghese, T.; Balakrishna, K.M., “Nanotechnology: An Introduction to Synthesis,
Properties and Applications of Nanomaterials”, Atlantic, 2012 (ISBN: 978-
8126916382)
188
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective -II 3 0 3
(5IT06) COMPUTER NETWORKS
(Common to ECE,CSE, EIE& IT)
Course Objectives
• Analyze the terminology and concepts of the OSI and TCP-IP reference model.
• Examine various error correction and error detection methods.
• Learn addressing mechanisms efficiently to build a network.
• Understand and predict the Pros and cons of existing protocols and its working
procedures.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Demonstrate the Layered Architecture (OSI and TCP-IP reference models) of Computer
Networks.
• Apply all the error correction and detection mechanisms.
• Implement the Addressing mechanisms to assign IP addresses to network efficiently.
• Design and formulate new protocols or reproduce the existing protocols for efficient
working of computer networks.
UNIT I
Data communications: Components – Direction of Data flow – Networks – Components and
Categories – Types of Connections – Topologies –Protocols and Standards – ISO / OSI model,
Example Networks such as ATM, Frame Relay, ISDN
Physical layer: Transmission modes, Multiplexing, Transmission Media, Switching, Circuit
Switched Networks, Datagram Networks, Virtual Circuit Networks.
UNIT II
Data link layer: Introduction, Framing, and Error – Detection and Correction – Parity – LRC –
CRC Hamming code, Flow and Error Control, Noiseless Channels, Noisy Channels, HDLC,
Point to Point Protocols.
Medium Access sub layer: ALOHA, CSMA/CD, LAN - Ethernet IEEE 802.5 - IEEE 802.11,
Random access, Controlled access, Channelization,
UNIT III
Network layer: Logical Addressing, Internetworking, Tunneling, Address mapping, ICMP,
IGMP, Forwarding, Uni-Cast Routing Protocols, Multicast Routing Protocols.
189
UNIT IV
Transport Layer: Process to Process Delivery, UDP and TCP protocols, Data Traffic,
Congestion, Congestion Control, Qos, Integrated Services, Differentiated Services, QoS in
Switched Networks.
UNIT-V
Application Layer: Domain name space, DNS in internet, electronic mail, SMTP, FTP, WWW,
HTTP, SNMP.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Data Communications and Networking – Behrouz A. Forouzan , Fourth Edition
TMH,2006.
2. Computer Networks — Andrew S Tanenbaum, 4th Edition. Pearson Education/PHI.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Data communications and computer Networks, P.C .Gupta, PHI.
2. An Engineering Approach to Computer Networks-S.Keshav, 2nd Edition, Pearson
Education.
3. Understanding communications and Networks, 3rd Edition, W.A. Shay, Cengage
Learning.
4. Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach Featuring the Internet. James F.
Kurose&Keith W. Ross,3rd Edition, Pearson Education.
5. William Stallings, “Data and Computer Communication”, Sixth Edition, Pearson
Education, 2000.
190
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 0 3
(5EC12)VLSI DESIGN
(Common to EEE, ECE& EIE)
Pre-requisites: Electronic Devices and circuits, Digital IC Concepts
Course Objectives
• To learn the various fabrication steps of IC and come across basic electrical
properties of MOSFET.
• To study the concepts of stick diagrams and layouts with the knowledge of MOS
layers through design rules.
• To study gate level design of subsystems, integrated circuits
• To learn concepts of PLD’s, design capture tools and CMOS testing.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Understand IC Fabrication process steps required for various MOS circuits
• Analyze electrical properties and layout flow for circuit level and gate level models
• Design and test VLSI circuits.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION: Introduction to MOS Technology – MOS, PMOS, NMOS, CMOS and
BiCMOS technologies, fabrication fundamentals: Oxidation, Lithography, Diffusion, Ion
implantation, Metallization and Encapsulation.
BASIC ELECTRICAL PROPERTIES: Basic Electrical Properties of MOS ,CMOS and BiCMOS
Circuits: I -V relationships, MOS transistor threshold Voltage, g , g , figure of merit w ,
DS DS M DS o
Pass transistor, NMOS inverter, Various pull - ups, Determination of pull-up to pull-down ratio(
Z / Z ) , CMOS Inverter analysis and design, BiCMOS inverters, Latch-up in CMOS circuits.
pu pd
UNIT II
VLSI CIRCUIT DESIGN PROCESSES: VLSI Design Flow, MOS Layers, Stick Diagrams,
Design Rules and Layouts, Lambda based design rules, Contact cuts , CMOS Lambda based
design rules, Layout Diagrams for logic gates, Transistor structures, wires and vias, Scaling
of MOS circuits- Scaling models, scaling factors, scaling factors for device parameters,
Limitations of Scaling.
191
UNIT III
GATE LEVEL DESIGN AND LAYOUT: Architectural issues, Switch logic networks: Gate logic,
Alternate gate circuit: Pseudo-NMOS , Dynamic CMOS logic. Basic circuit concepts, Sheet
Resistance R and its concept to MOS, Area Capacitance Units, Calculations, The delay unit
S
T, Inverter Delays, Driving large Capacitive Loads, Wiring Capacitances, Fan-in and fan-out,
Choice of layers.
UNIT IV
SUBSYSTEM DESIGN: Subsystem Design, Shifters, Adders, ALUs, Multipliers: Array
multiplier, Serial-Parallel multiplier, Parity generator, Comparators, Zero/One Detectors,
Up/Down Counter, Memory elements.
SEMICONDUCTOR INTEGRATED CIRCUIT DESIGN: PLDs, FPGAs, CPLDs, Standard
Cells, Programmable Array Logic, Programmable Logic Array Design Approach.
UNIT V
VHDL SYNTHESIS: VHDL Synthesis, Circuit Design Flow, Circuit Synthesis, Simulation,
Layout, Design capture tools, Design Verification Tools.
CMOS TESTING : CMOS Testing, Need for testing, Test Principles, Design Strategies for test,
Over view of Chip level Test Techniques and System-level Test Techniques, Layout Design
for Improved Testability.
TEXTBOOKS
1. Essentials of VLSI circuits and systems – Kamran Eshraghian, Dougles and A.
Pucknell, PHIEdition, 2005.
2. Modern VLSI Design –Wayne Wolf, Pearson Education , 3rd Edition, 1997.
3. CMOS VLSI Design – A circuits and systems perspective, Neil H.E Weste , David
Harris , Ayan Banerjee,pearson ,2009.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. CMOS logic circuit Design – John P. Uyemura , Springer , 2007
2. VLSI DESIGN – K.Lal Kishore , VSV Prabhakar – I.K..International ,2009
3. VLSI Design – A.Albert Raj, Latha PHI, 2008.
4. Introduction to VLSI Design- Mead and Convey , BS Publcations, 2010.
5. VLSI Design – M. Michal Vai, CRC Press, 2009.
192
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 0 3
(5EI75) ROBOTICS AND APPLICATIONS
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Classification by coordinate system and control system
• Acquire Knowledgeon Different types Power Sources and Sensors
• Classification of Manipulators, Actuators and Grippers
• Acquire Knowledge on kinematics and Applications of different Robots
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Acquire knowledge on different types of Power Sources (actuators) and Sensors,
Classification Of Manipulators, Actuators and Grippers
• Acquire knowledge on different applications of various types of robots.
• Analyze the direct and the inverse kinematic problems and calculate the manipulator
dynamics
• Able to identify the applications of robots in different process operations.
.
UNIT I: Basic Concepts & Power Sources
Fundamentals:
An over view of Robotics, classification of Robots, Robot Components, Robot degreesof
freedom, Robot Joints, Robot Coordinates, Robot reference frames, Programming modes,
Robot Characteristics.
Actuators:
Characteristics of activating system, comparison of activating system Hydraulic devices,
Pneumatic devices, electric motors, magnetostrictive actuators.
UNIT II: Sensors, Manipulators and Grippers
Sensors: Sensors characteristics, Position sensors, velocity sensors, acceleration sensors,
torque sensors, micro switches, lighten infrared sensors, touch and tactile sensors, proximity
sensors, range finders.
193
Grippers: Robot end effectors, Classification, drive system for Gripper, Mechanical Grippers,
Magnetic Grippers, Vacuum Grippers, Adhesive Grippers, Hooks, Scoops and other
Miscellaneous Devices, Gripper force Analysis and Gripper Design, Active and passive
Grippers.
UNIT III: Kinematics
Matrix representation of translational and Rotational motion – Homogeneous Transformation-
DH representation of standard configuration Robots- Inverse Kinematics.Joint space vs.
Cartesian space-Basics of Trajectory planning in joint and Cartesian space.
UNIT IV: Low level and high level vision
Image acquisition, Illumination Techniques, Imaging Geometry, Some Basic Relationships
between Pixels, Segmentation, Description, Segmentation and Description of 3-D Structures,
Recognition, Interpretation.
UNIT V: Robot Applications
Material Transfer and Machine loading/unloading: General Considerations in Robot Material
Handling, Material Transfer application, Machine loading and unloading. Liquid handling and
pumping.
Processing operations: Spot welding, Continuous Arc Welding, Spray Coating, other
processing operations using Robots.
Assembly and Inspection: Assembly and Robot Assembly automation, Parts Presentation
methods, Assembly operations, compliance and the Remote Center Compliance (RCC)
Device, Assembly system configuration, Adaptable-Programmable assembly system,
Designing for Robotic Assembly, Inspection Automation.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Mikell. P, Weiss .G.M, Nage.l R.N and Odraj .N.G, ”Industrial Robotics”,McGraw Hill
Singapore, 1996.
2. Ghosh, ”Control in Robotics and Automation: Sensor Based Integration”,Allied
Publishers, Chennai, 1998.
REFERENCES
1. Deb.S.R, ”Robotics technology and flexible Automation”, John Wiley, USA1992.
2. Asfahl. C.R, “Robots and manufacturing Automation”, John Wiley, USA 1992.
3. Klafter. R.D, Chimielewski. T.A, Negin. M, “Robotic Engineering – An integrated
approach”, Prentice Hall of India, New Delhi, 1994.
194
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 0 3
(5EE80) ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS AND FUZZY LOGIC
(Common to EEE, ECE& EIE)
Course Objectives
• To cater the knowledge of Neural Networks and Fuzzy Logic Control and use these
for controlling real time systems.
• To expose the students to the concepts of feed forward neural networks and about
feedback neural networks.
• To teach about the concept of fuzziness involved in various systems and
comprehensive knowledge of fuzzy logic control
• To teach the design of fuzzy logic controllers.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• The concepts of feed forward neural networks and learning and understanding of
feedback neural networks.
• Concept of fuzziness involved in various systems and fuzzy set theory.
• Comprehensive knowledge of fuzzy logic control and adaptive fuzzy logic.
• Adequate knowledge of application of fuzzy logic control to real time systems.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO NEURAL NETWORKS
Introduction, Humans and Computers, Biological Neuron and organization of the brain,
Biological and Artificial Neuron Models, Hodgkin-Huxley Neuron Model, Integrate-and-Fire
Neuron Model, Spiking Neuron Model, Characteristics of ANN, McCulloch-Pitts Model and
Design of logic gates, Historical Developments, Potential Applications of ANN.
ESSENTIALS OF ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS
Artificial Neuron Model, Operations of Artificial Neuron, Types of Neuron Activation Function,
ANN Architectures, Classification Taxonomy of ANN – Connectivity, Neural Dynamics
195
(Activation and Synaptic), Learning Strategy (Supervised, Unsupervised, Reinforcement),
Learning Rules, Types of Application.
UNIT II
SINGLE LAYER FEED FORWARD NEURAL NETWORKS
Introduction, Perceptron Models: Discrete, Continuous and Multi-Category, Training
Algorithms: Discrete and Continuous Perceptron Networks, Perceptron Convergence theorem
and concepts, Limitations of the Perceptron Model, Applications.
MULTILAYER FEED FORWARD NEURAL NETWORKS
Credit Assignment Problem, Generalized Delta Rule, Derivation of Back propagation (BP)
Training, Summary of Back propagation Algorithm, Learning Difficulties and Improvements.
UNIT III
ASSOCIATIVE MEMORIES
Paradigms of Associative Memory, Pattern Mathematics, Hebbian Learning, General Concepts
of Associative Memory (Associative Matrix, Association Rules, Hamming Distance, The Linear
Associator, Matrix Memories, Content Addressable Memory), Bidirectional Associative
Memory (BAM) Architecture, BAM Training Algorithms: Storage and Recall Algorithm, BAM
Energy Function
Architecture of Hopfield Network: Discrete and Continuous versions, Storage and Recall
Algorithm, Stability Analysis, Capacity of the Hopfield Network, Applications.
UNIT IV
CLASSICAL AND FUZZY SETS
Introduction to classical sets - properties, Operations and relations; Fuzzy sets, Operations,
properties, fuzzy relations, membership functions.
FUZZY LOGIC SYSTEM COMPONENTS
Fuzzification, Membership value assignment, development of rule base and decision making
system, Defuzzification to crisp sets, Defuzzification methods.
UNIT V
APPLICATIONS
NEURAL NETWORK APPLICATIONS: Process identification, control, fault diagnosis and load
forecasting.
196
FUZZY LOGIC APPLICATIONS: Fuzzy logic control, Design and Analysis
TEXT BOOKS
1. Neural Networks, Fuzzy logic, Genetic algorithm - synthesis and applications by
Rajasekharan and Rai, PHI Publications.
2. Artificial neural networks by B.Yegnarayana, PHI publications.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Neural Networks by James A Freeman and Davis Skapura, Pearson Education,
2002.
2. Neural Networks by Simon Hakins , Pearson Education
3. Neural Engineering by C.Eliasmith and CH.Anderson, PHI
4. Neural Networks and Fuzzy Logic System by Bart Kosko, PHI Publications.
5. Introduction to Artificial Neural Systems by J.M.Zurada, Jaico Publishing House.
6. Introduction to Neural Networks using MATLAB 6.0 by S.N.Sivanandam, S.Sumathi,
S.N.Deepa, TMH, 2006.
197
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EI56) VIRTUAL INSTRUMENTATION LABORATORY
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Acquire the concepts towards measurement and automation through LabVIEW.
• Acquire knowledge about how to control an external measuring device by interfacing
a computer.
• Be competent in data acquisition and instrument control.
• Provide knowledge on developing different applications in Digital image processing
,control system, signal processing and simulation.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Design virtual instrument for any application
• Acquire ,analyze and display the result of any project performed
• Suggest a device to be interfaced based on the design constrains
List of Experiments
(Minimum 14 experiments should be completed)
1. Introduction to LabVIEW through examples-Front Panel, Block Diagram, Creating
sub-VI using Icon and Connector Pane.
2. LabVIEW basic Programming through examples - Loops, Case Structures, Formula
Node, Graphs, charts.
3. LabVIEW basic Programming through examples - Arrays, Clusters, Local & Global
variables.
4. LabVIEW basic Programming through examples - File I/O, Strings, Event Structures.
5. Design a Level measurement VI with simulated sensor input (4 mA to 20 mA) that
raise an alarm when the level crosses a fixed (user defined) limit.
6. Data Acquisition in LabVIEW - Acquiring analog signal from a function generator
through NI-USB-6210 into LabVIEW using DAQ Assistant Express VI.
7. Plotting Dynamic Characteristics of a Spring-Mass Damper system using control
Design & simulation module.
8. Design a Velocity controller for a DC Motor using PID toolkit and control design &
simulation module.
9. Analysis of Sampling Theorem, Aliasing and Signal Reconstruction using LabVIEW
DSP Module.
198
10. Design and Analysis of IIR and FIR filters using DFD tool kit in LabVIEW.
11. Noise Cancellation using Adaptive Filtering approach in LabVIEW.
12. Implementing a Digital filter system using LabVIEW DSP module and NI SPEEDY
33.
13. Finding the area of circular particles in a metal image using NI Vision assistant.
14. Free space optical communication using Nl-ELVIS.
15. Measuring the characteristics of a low pass, high pass, and band pass filter using NI-
ELVIS.
Lab VIEW: Control of real time process
16. LabVIEW based control to Flow process station
17. LabVIEW based control to Level process station
18. LabVIEW based control to Ratio and Cascade Control system process station.
199
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EI57) ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTATION LABORATORY
Course Objectives
• To introduce the student to principles and theory of instrument analysis.
• To introduce the student to a whole array of modern analytical instruments .
• To emphasize a hands-on approach with sample preparation, application, method
development, data analysis and interpretation being key elements.
• They can understand the applications and usage of Water quality , Air Quality
,Spectrometry, chromatography in real time industrial environments.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Develop an understanding of the range and theories of instrumental methods available
in analytical instrumentation
• Apply knowledge pertaining to the appropriate selection of instruments for the successful
analysis of complex mixtures
• develop an understanding of the role of the Instrumentation Engineer in measurement
and problem solving in chemical analysis
• Expand skills in the scientific method of planning, developing, conducting, reviewing
and reporting experiments
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
1. Ambient and emission air monitoring using gas analyzer
2. Separation of different constituents in a mixture of chemical using chromatography
3. Identification of atoms and its concentration through absorption spectra with UV- VIS
spectrophotometer.
4. Identification of chemical compound and its concentration using FTIR spectrometer.
5. Identification of atoms and its concentration through emission spectra using flame
photometer.
6. Measurement of calorific value using digital bomb calorimeter
7. Determination of acid/alkaline nature of water using pH meter.
8. Food product quality determination using protein analyzers.
9. Qualitative analysis of milk –Milk Analyzer.
10. Determination of concentration of an unknown solution using colorimeter.
11. Radiation intensity measurement with varying distance and measurement of absorber
thickness using nuclear radiation detector-G.M. counter.
12. Analysis of water quality using water purity meter
13. Measurement of TDS and conductivity of water using digital conductivity meter
14. Measurement of turbidity of water using digital turbidity meter.
200
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EI58) PROCESS CONTROL AUTOMATION LABORATORY
Course Objectives
• To make students proficient with PLC and SCADA programming
• To make students create interface between PLC and SCADA
• To make students implement PLC and SCADA for real time systems
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Write PLC and SCADA programs for desired application.
• Implement PLC and SCADA control to real times systems.
• Design and create seamless interface between PLC and SCADA mincing the real
industrial application.
PLC: Programming and applications
1. Overview of PLC systems, input/output modules, Power supplies and Isolators
2. Simulation: Creating Ladder diagrams for arbitrary applications
3. Basic Functions: register, timer, counter
4. Interfacing PLC with at least two real time process ( Pressure Level)
5. Networking of PLC
6. Process Controllers and Loop Tuning using PLC
SCADA: Programming and Applications
1. Introduction to SCADA system, Industrial Application of SCADA
2. Remote Terminal Units programming
3. SCADA programming
4. Interfacing of SCADA and PLC
5. Remote Operation Monitoring using SCADA
6. Real time implementation of SCADA System to a process
(DC Motor-RPM Control; Stepper Motor-Angular Displacement and Linear
Displacement through Rack Pinion)
7. Implementation of SCADA interfaced PLCs to Flow Process Station
8. Implementation of SCADA interfaced PLCs to pH control system Process Station
9. Implementation of SCADA interfaced PLCs to split control system Process Station
10. Implementation of SCADA interfaced PLCs to Temperature Process Station
11. SCADA programming to simultaneously monitor and control the pH control system
process Station, the split control system process Station and Temperature process
station
12. Monitoring and evaluation of PLC network using SCADA.
201
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE I Sem L T/P/D C
0 4 2
(5EI91) INDUSTRY ORIENTED MINI PROJECT
Course Objectives
• To make students learn about the Industrial Process
• To make students earn hands on experience in the Industrial Process
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Understand the formulated industry / technical problem
• Analyze and / or develop models for providing solution to Industry / Technical
problems
• Interpret and arrive at conclusions from the project carried out
• Demonstrate effective communication skills through oral presentation
• Engage in effective written communication through project report
202
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EI12) FIBER OPTIC AND LASER INSTRUMENTATION
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Understand the principles of optics and lasing action, Design of lasers.
• Apply the knowledge of Optics to fibers and understand the different industrial
applications of Optical Fibers.
• Learn the various applications of Lasers in Instrumentation.
• Understand the Opto-Electronic devices and their principles of operation along with
their applications.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply fundamental knowledge of Optics and lasers to design application specific
optical fiber.
• Apply Lasers in Instrumentation for the measurement of Industrial parameters like
Pressure, Temperature, and Level and find the solutions for the errors.
• Understand the advantages of using Lasers in the measurements.
• Understand the applications of Lasers in medicine.
UNIT I
Optical Fibers and Their Properties
Introduction to optical fiber - fiber characteristics - principles of light propagation through a fiber
- Different types of fibers and their properties - Losses in the optical fiber - Dispersion -
advantages and disadvantages of optical fibers.
UNIT II
Opto-Electronic Components
Optical sources: LED, LD - Optical detectors: PIN, APD - Electro-optic, Magneto optic and
Acousto-optic Modulators.
UNIT III
Industrial Applications of Optical Fibers
Interferometer method of measurement of length – Moire fringes – Measurement of pressure,
Temperature, Current, Voltage, Liquid level and Strain - fiber optic Gyroscope – Polarization
maintaining fibers – Applications, Bio-Medical Applications in Endoscopy.
203
UNIT IV
Laser Fundamentals
Introduction to lasers - Laser characteristics – Laser configuration – Three level and four level
lasers – Q-switching – Mode locking – Types of lasers: Solid lasers, Gas lasers, Liquid lasers
and Semiconductor lasers
UNIT V
Laser instrumentation
Industrial applications of lasers – Lasers for measurement of distance, length, velocity,
acceleration, current, voltage and atmospheric effect - Bio-medical applications ,Holography:
Principle, Methods, Holographic Interferometers and applications.
TEXT BOOKS
1. ‘Optical Fiber Communication – Principles and Practice’, J.M. Senior, Prentice Hall
of India, 1985.
2. Lasers: Theory and Applications – by Thyagarajan K. and Ghatak A.K., Plenum
Press
REFERENCES
1. Optical Fibre Communication and Sensors’, M. Arumugam, Anuradha Agencies,
2002.
2. Understanding Fiber Optics, 4th or 5th edition; Jeff Hecht; Prentice Hall publishers
3. Optical Fibre Communication’, G. Keiser, ‘McGraw Hill, 1995.
4. Monte Ross, ‘Laser Applications’, McGraw Hill, 1968
5. ‘Introduction to Opto Electronics’, J. Wilson and J.F.B. Hawkes, Prentice Hall of
India, 2001.
204
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 0 3
(5EI76) POWER PLANT INSTRUMENTATION
Course Objective:
Student will be able to
• Understandthe working model of power plant
• Understandthe necessity of a instrumentation engineer in a power plant
• Understanddifferent components and their control in power plants.
• Understand various analyzers used in power plant
Course Outcome:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Appreciate the power generation technique used in different types of power plants
• Appreciate different parameters and their control in the power plant
• Understand and standby the saying “one watt saved = two watts generated”.
• Understand the concepts of Nuclear power plants.
UNIT I
An Overview of Power Generation
Introduction-various sources of Electrical Energy - Non-conventional Energy sources-
Wind power, solar power, tidal power, geothermal power, magnetohydrodynamic (MHD)
Power, Fuel Cells, Biomass Power, Conventional energy sources- hydropower, nuclear
power, gas power, steam power (Thermal Power), comparison of various conventional power
plants, Importance of instrumentation and control in power Generation – Classification of
Instruments in a power plant, objectives of Instrumentation and control.
Piping and Instrumentation diagram (P and I Diagram) – Examples of ISA Instrumentation
diagram symbols, examples of SAMA instrumentation diagram symbols, examples of ISA and
SAMA diagram, piping and instrumentation diagramming, Cogeneration of Power-back
pressure turbine, pass-out turbine process heat unit, control rooms, thermal or boiler control
room, electrical control room, plan of control rooms.
UNIT II
Instrumentation and Control in Water Circuit
Water circuit, boiler feed water circulation- natural circulation, forced circulation, combined
circulation, Measurements in Water Circuit- Water Flow Measurement, Differential Pressure
205
transmitter (DPT), steam flow measurement, water and steam pressure measurements, water
and steam temperature measurements, drum water level measurement.
Controls in water circuit-boiler drum level control, superheated steam temperature control,
steam pressure control, impurities in water and steam- impurities in Raw Water, Effects of
Impurities, Measurement of Impurities, feed water treatment.
UNIT III
Instrumentation and Control in Air-Fuel Circuit
Air-Fuel Circuit – Fuels, combustion air, flue gases, waste gases, Measurements in Air-Fuel
Circuit – Measurement of flow/quantity, Measurement of Pressures, Measurement of
Temperatures, Measurement of level.
Controls in Air-Fuel Circuit – Combustion control, furnace Draft Control, Analytical
Measurement – Oxygen Measurement in Flue Gas, Measurement of carbon dioxide in flue
gas, combustibles analyser (CO+H ), Infrared flue gas analyser, smoke detector, dust monitor,
2
closed circuit television, fuel analysers, chromatography, pollution monitoring instruments.
UNIT IV
Turbine Monitoring and Control
Introduction – Classification, instrumentation control points of View, Principal parts of steam
turbines, Turbine Steam Inlet System – Inlet valve arrangements, inlet measurements,
Governors, Turbine Measurements – Process Parameters, mechanical parameters, electrical
parameters, Turbine control system – safety control systems, process control systems,
Lubrication for turbo-alternator – Lubrication system, Controls in Lubrication system, Turbo-
Alternator Cooling System – Lube Oil cooling system, Alternator/Generator cooling system.
UNIT V
Nuclear Power Plant Instrumentation
Introduction – Instrumentation and Control for Nuclear Power Plant - Important Components of
I&C System - Evolution of I&C in NPP – Reactor Control – Methods of Control, Control loops,
Functionsof control system, Pressurized water reactor (PWR) controls, boiler water reactor
(BWR) controls, Liquid metal cooled reactor (LMCR) Control, role of reactor controls during
start-up, normal operation and shut down.
Digital Architectures in Nuclear Power Plants- System-level Instrumentation and control
architecture, safety related systems, non-safety-related systems, man machine interface
system (MMIS), Instrumentation and controls architecture platform.
Radiation protection and monitoring – accident at three mile Island, USA, disaster at
Chernobyl nuclear power plant, Ukraine, calamity at Fukushima, Daiichi nuclear power plant,
Japan, Radiation Units, Biological Effects of Radiation, Radiation Monitoring, Nuclear Reactor
Safety - Reactor protection system, Reactor Tripping, Engineered Safety Features,
Surveillance, Diagnostics and Prognostics – Surveillance, Diagnosis, Prognosis.
206
TEXT BOOKS
1. Modern Power Station Practice, Volume.6, Instrumentation, Controls and Testing,
Pergamon Press, Oxford, 1971.
2. Power Plant Technology, Wakil M.M., McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES
1. Standard Boiler operations-Questions and Answers., Elonka S.M and Kohal A.L.,–
Tata McGraw Hill, New Delhi, 1994.
2. Power Plant Instrumentation by Prof. K. Krishna Swamy, Newage International
Publisher.
3. Standard Boiler Operations - Questions and Answers – by Elonka S.M., andKohal
A.L., TMH, New Delhi, 1994
207
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 0 3
(5EI77) MICRO ELECTROMECHANICAL SYSTEMS (MEMS)
Course Objectives
The course is intended for students to:
• Acquire knowledge about MEMS devices and their applications in various domains.
• Understand the techniques to fabricate MEMS devices.
• Learn the design considerations for MEMS devices and Microsystems.
• Learning to characterize Microsystems using optical and electron microscopy and
other techniques.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply fundamental knowledge of physics and chemistry to design microsystems for
various applications.
• Select appropriate tools and techniques considering particular practical need for a
microsystem application.
• Realize the need for advancement of technology towards microsystems for better
living in the society.
• Understand the need to keep oneself updated constantly to understand the ease of
use of emerging technologies.
UNIT I
Fundamentals of MEMS
Overview of MEMS and Microsystems; Evolution of microfabrication; Applications of MEMS in
optical devices (Micro-Opto-Electro-Mechanical Systems or MOEMS), healthcare and
biomedicine (including Bio-MEMS and Bio-MOEMS), aerospace, telecommunications,
consumer products, automotive, and industrial products; Working principles of microsystems:
Microsensors – acoustic wave, bio-, chemical, optical, pressure, thermal; Microactuation –
thermal, shape-memory alloys, piezoelectric, electrostatic; MEMS devices – Microgrippers;
Micromotors; Microfluidics – Micropumps, Microvalves; Micro accelerometers
208
UNIT II
Materials for MEMS and Microsystems
Substrates and Wafers; Silicon as a Substrate, Silicon Compounds, Silicon piezoresistors,
Non-silicon based materials: Gallium Arsenide, Gallium Nitride, Quartz, Piezeoelectric
Crystals, Polymers.
Unit III
Basics of Micromanufacturing
Photolithography; Cleanroom Environment; Deposition techniques: Ion implantation, Diffusion,
Vapour Deposition (PVD, CVD, PECVD), Oxidation, Epitaxial growth; Etching techniques:
Chemical (Wet) Etching, Plasma (Dry) Etching
Design considerations; Process Design; Photomask layout using CAD; Mechanical design
overview
UNIT IV
Fabrication of MEMS
Bulk micromachining, Surface micromachining, LIGA Process, Deep X-Ray Lithography
(DXRL)
UNIT V
Characterization of MEMS
Characterization techniques: Principle of working and operation of: Scanning Electron
Microscope (SEM), Transmission Electron Microscope (TEM), Atomic Force Microscope
(AFM), X-Ray Diffraction (XRD), Optical microscope
TEXT BOOKS
1. Tai-Ran Hsu, “MEMS and Microsystems Design and Manufacture”, Tata McGraw-
Hill, 2002 (ISBN: 978-0070487093)
2. N. Mahalik, “MEMS”, McGraw-Hill Education (India) Pvt. Ltd., 2007 (ISBN: 978-
0070634459)
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Marc J. Madou, “Fundamentals of Microfabrication: The Science of Miniaturization”,
CRC Press, 2002 (ISBN: 978-0849308260)
2. Stephen D. Senturia, “Microsystem Design”, Springer, 2004 (ISBN: 978-
8181285461)
3. Ville Kaajakari, “Practical MEMS”, Small Gear Publishing, 2009 (ISBN: 978-
0982299104)
209
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 0 3
(5EC14) EMBEDDED REAL TIME OPERATING SYSTEMS
(Common to EEE, ECE& EIE)
Pre-requisites: Microprocessor and Microcontrollers Concepts
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Learn the general embedded system concepts
• Understand design of embedded hardware and software development tools
• Learn the basics of OS and RTOS
• Describe key issues such as CPU scheduling, memory management, task
synchronization, and file system in the context of real-time embedded systems.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Understand and design real time and non real time embedded systems
• Define the unique design challenges of real-time systems and program them.
• Understand unique characteristics of RTOS and use RTOS to build an embedded
real-time system
UNIT I
FUNDAMENTALS OF EMBEDDED SYSTEMS
Definition – Classification of Embedded Systems - Processors in the system - Other Hardware
units. Software components - Examples for embedded systems, Design issues and trends
UNIT II
EMBEDDED HARDWARE DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT
Processor Architecture- Structured units of a processor - Processor selection factors. Common
memory devices - Memory selection - Memory map - Internal devices & I/O devices, Serial
devices - Parallel port devices, Timer and Counting devices - Direct memory access,
Communication Interface Standards.
210
UNIT III
EMBEDDED SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT
Embedded System Development Process, Embedded Operating systems, Types of
Embedded Operating systems, Host and Target machines, Linkers/Locators for embedded
software, getting embedded software into the target system, Testing on host machine.
UNIT IV
REAL TIME OPERATING SYSTEMS CONCEPTS -I
Typical OS structure - RTOS structure - The context of its use - Schedule management for
multiple tasks - Scheduling in real time - RTOS task scheduling models – Round Robin, Round
Robin with Interrupts, Priority driven- Preemptive and Non-preemptive scheduling
UNIT V
REAL TIME OPERATING SYSTEMS CONCEPTS -II
Tasks and Task states, Tasks and Data, Semaphores and shared data, Message queues,
Mailboxes and Pipes, Timer functions, events, Memory management, Interrupt routines in an
RTOS environment.
Case study of RTOS using MUCOS. Case study for RTOS based programming - Coding for
Automatic Chocolate vending machine using MUCOS.
TEXT BOOKS
1. An Embedded Software Primer – David E. Simon, Pearson Ed., 2005.
2. Embedded systems - architecture, programming and design - Raj Kamal; Tata
McGraw Hill
REFERENCES
1. Real time Systems”, J. W. S. Liu, Pearson
2. The 8051 Microcontroller & Embedded Systems using Assembly and C by Ayala
& Gadre, Cengage Publications
211
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 0 3
(5EC80)DSP PROCESSORS AND ARCHITECTURES
(Common to ECE& EIE)
Pre-requisites: Digital Signal Processing
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Study the Architectural details of TMS320C54xx DSPs and the concepts involved
in execution control and pipelining
• Analyze the importance of numeric formats and sources of errors in DSP
implementation
• Understand the concepts of Memory & I/O interfacing
• Develop various algorithms
Course Outcomes
• Design systems considering sampling rate
• Apply different DSP processor for various applications.
• Design and implement real time signal processing algorithms.
UNIT I
Introduction to DSP Processors
Digital Signal Processors, various architectures: VLIW Architecture, Multiprocessor DSPs,
SHARC, SIMD, MIMD, RISC and CISC.
Execution Control and Pipelining: Hardware looping, Interrupts, Stacks, Relative Branch
support, Pipelining and Performance, Pipeline Depth, Interlocking, Branch effects, Interrupt
effects,Pipeline Programming models.
UNIT II
Typical real-time DSP systems
Data representations and arithmetic, Analog - to – digital conversion process, Uniform and non-
uniform quantization and encoding, Oversampling in A/D conversion, Digital to analog
conversion process: signal recovery, the DAC, Anti-imaging filtering, Oversampling in D/A
212
conversion, Analog I/O interface for real-time DSP systems, sources of errors in DSP
implementation, real time implementation considerations.
UNIT III
Fixed-Point DSP Processors
Architecture of TMS 320C 5X, C54X Processors, addressing modes, Memory space of
TMS320C54XX Processors, Program Control, TMS320C54XX instructions and Programming,
On-Chip Peripherals, Interrupts of TMS320C54XX processors, Pipeline operation of
TMS320C54XX Processors, speed issues.
UNIT IV
Memory and I/O Interfacing
External bus interfacing signals, Memory interface, Parallel I/O interface: Programmed I/O,
Interrupts and I/O, Direct memory access (DMA).
Hardware interfacing, Multichannel Buffered Serial Port (McBSP), McBSP Programming,
CODEC interface circuit.
UNIT V
Implementation of DSP algorithms
The Q-notation, FIR Filters, IIR Filters, Interpolation Filters, Decimation Filters, PID Controller,
Adaptive Filters, 2-D Signal Processing.
An FFT Algorithm for DFT Computation, A Butterfly Computation, Overflow and scaling, Bit-
Reversed index generation, An 8-Point FFT implementation on the TMS320C54XX.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Digital Signal Processing – Avtar Singh and S. Srinivasan, Thomson Publications,
2004.
2. Digital Signal Processing A Practical approach, Second Edition, Emmanuel C.
Ifeachor,Barrie W Jervis,Pearson Publications. 2002.
REFERENCES
1. Digital Signal processors Architectures, implementations and Applications-Sen
M.Kuo, Woon-Seng S.Gan, Pearson Publications, 2009.
2. Digital Signal Processors, Architecture, Programming and Applications – B.
Venkata Ramani and M. Bhaskar,TMH, 2004.
3. Digital Signal Processing – Jonatham Stein, John Wiley, 2005.
4. DSP Processor Fundamentals, Architectures and Features – Lapsley, S. Chand,
2000.
5. “DSP Applications with TMS 320 Family”, K. Shin ,Prentice Hall, 1987.
213
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIEII Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(5EI78) PHARMACEUTICAL INSTRUMENTATION
Course Objectives
Student will be able to
• Understand the working pharmaceutical industry
• Understand the necessity of a instrumentation engineer pharmaceutical industry
• Understand different components and their control in pharmaceutical industry.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Appreciate the concept of analytical instrumentation learned during previous semester.
• Appreciate the necessity of homogenization of mixture and size reduction .
• Appreciate evaporation process involved in pharma industries.
• Appreciate distillation and filtration process involved in pharma industries .
UNIT I
Introduction: Pharma Industries Basic Processors and Instrumentation Techniques, Process
Analysis Technology(PAT).
Filtration: Classification of Filtration, Mechanism of Filtration, Filter media, Filter Aids, Pre
treatment of materials, small scale filtration methods, filtration equipment, filter presses, Leaf
filters, stacked disc filters, meta filters, Rotary continuous filters, other methods, ceramic filters,
seitz filters, sintered (fritted) Glass filters, Membrane filters, factors affecting the rate of filtration,
filter operation, theory of filtration, Limitations of filter theory.
Centrifugation: General principles, theoretical aspects, classification, Laboratory equipment,
Large scale equipment, Semicontinuous centrifuge, equipment with non-perforated basket, de
laval clarifier, vertical solid bowl centrifuges, continuous centrifuges.
Theory of filtration, filter aids, filter media, industrial filters including filter press, rotary filter,
edge filter, etc. Factors affecting filtration, mathematical problems on filtration, optimum-
cleaning cycle in batch filters. Principles of centrifugation, industrial centrifugal filters,
centrifugal filters, and centrifugal sedimeters.
214
UNIT II
Crystallization: Introduction, Crystal forms and crystal Habit, classification of crystallizers,
tank crystallizers, agitated batch crystallizers, Swenson Walker Crystallizer, others, Krystal
Crystallizer, Vacuum Crystallizer without External Classifying seed Bed, theoretical aspects of
Crystallization, Calculation of yields, theory of Crystallization. The miers super saturation
theory, limitations of themiers theory, rate of crystal growth, Caking of crystals.
Characteristics of crystals like; purity, size, shape, geometry, habit, forms, size and factors
affecting it. Solubility curves and calculation of yields, Material and heat balances around
Swenson Walker Crystallizer. Super saturation theory and its limitations, Nucleation
mechanisms, crystal growth. Study of various types of crystallizers, tanks, agitated batch,
single vacuum, circulating magma and crystal crystallizers. Caking of crystals and its
prevention. Numerical problems on yields.
UNIT III
Humidity control and Refrigeration: Basic concepts and definition, wet bulb temperature,
adiabatic cooling lines, use of Humidity chart, determination of humidity, air conditioning,
humidification and humidifying equipment, dehumidifiers. Introduction, refrigeration equipment,
coefficient of performance and refrigerants, Brine systems, refrigeration load, absorption
systems.
Evaporation and Distillation Heat Processes: Factors affecting evaporation, study of
evaporating stills and evaporating pans, heat transferring evaporators, vapor compression
evaporators and evaporation under reduced pressure. Distillation: Importance of distillation in
Pharmacy, methods of distillation. Brief introduction to freeze drying, sublimation, desiccation
and exsiccation, efflorescence and its importance.
UNIT IV
Size Reduction and Separation
Introduction, mechanism and principles of size reduction, classification of size reduction
equipment, law of size reduction, large equipment, mills using impact force for size reduction,
cage mills, pin mills, fluid energy or jet mills, attrition and grinding mills tumbling mills. Ball mills
and tube mills, practical size classifiers used with grinding mills, wet classifiers, non-rotary ball
and bead mills, dry vs wet grinding, end runner mill, edge runner mills, disc attrition mills,
dispersion and colloid mills, roller mills, size reduction combined with other operations, factors
influencing choice of size reduction machinery, changes resulting in the material due to size
reduction.
size separation sieving, Screening equipment, sedimentation, screen analysis Definition,
objectives of size reduction, factors affecting size reduction, laws governing energy and power
requirements of a mill, types of mills including ball mill, hammer mill, fluid energy mill etc.
215
Various methods and equipments employed for size separation, centrifugal elutriation,
microscopic methods.
UNIT V
Mixing and Homogenization
Introduction, equipment for4 mixing of miscible liquids, mixing of a soluble solid with a low
viscon liquid etc., mixing solids with solids, equipment, consideration while choosing solids
mixing equipment, theory of mixing, mixing solids with liquids, mixing miscible liquids, mixing
viscous masses, mixing of immiscible liquids, equipment for emulsification.
Theory of mixing, solid solid, solid liquid and liquid liquid mixing equipment, double cone, twin-
shell, silverson mixer, colloid mill, sigma blade mixer, planetary mixer, propeller mixer and
turbine mixer. Semi solid mixing, Triple roller mill.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Pharmaceutical Engineering . K. Samba Murthy,
2. Pharmaceutical Engineering CVS Subhramanyam,.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Tutorial Pharmacy, S.J. Carter, Cooper and Gunn’s, 6th ed., CBS publisher,
Delhi.Perry’s Handbook of Chemical Engineering.
2. Unit Operations by Mc Cabe & Smith.
216
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(5EC79) INTERNET OF THINGS
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Course Objectives
• To understand the basics of Internet of Things
• To get an idea of some of the application areas where Internet of Things can be applied
• To understand the concepts of web and middleware for Internet of Things
• To understand the concepts of Cloud of Things with emphasis on Mobile cloud
computing and IOT protocols
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Identify and design the new models for market strategic interaction
• Design business intelligence and information security for Web
• Analyze various protocols for IoT and Design different models for network dynamics
UNIT I
Introduction
Definitions and Functional Requirements –Motivation – Architecture - Web 3.0 View of IoT–
Ubiquitous IoT Applications – Four Pillars of IoT – DNA of IoT - The Toolkit Approach for End-
user. Participation in the Internet of Things. Middleware for IoT: Overview – Communication
middleware for IoT –IoT Information Security
UNIT II
IOT Protocols
Protocol Standardization for IoT – Efforts – M2M and WSN Protocols – SCADA and RFID
Protocols – Issues with IoT Standardization – Unified Data Standards – Protocols – IEEE
802.15.4 – BACNet Protocol – Modbus – KNX – Zigbee Architecture – Network layer – APS
layer – Security.
UNIT III
Web of Things
Web of Things versus Internet of Things – Two Pillars of the Web – Architecture
Standardization for WoT– Platform Middleware for WoT – Unified Multitier WoT Architecture –
WoT Portals and Business Intelligence. Cloud of Things: Grid/SOA and Cloud Computing –
Cloud Middleware – Cloud Standards – Cloud Providers and Systems – Mobile Cloud
Computing – The Cloud of Things Architecture
217
UNIT IV
Integrated
Integrated Billing Solutions in the Internet of Things Business Models for the Internet of Things
- Network Dynamics: Population Models – Information Cascades - Network Effects – Network
Dynamics: Structural Models - Cascading Behavior in Networks - The Small-World
Phenomenon
UNIT V
Applications
The Role of the Internet of Things for Increased Autonomy and Agility in Collaborative
Production Environments - Resource Management in the Internet of Things: Clustering,
Synchronization and Software Agents. Applications - Smart Grid – Electrical Vehicle Charging
TEXT BOOKS
1. The Internet of Things in the Cloud: A Middleware Perspective - Honbo Zhou – CRC
Press – 2012
2. Architecting the Internet of Things - Dieter Uckelmann; Mark Harrison; Florian
Michahelles- (Eds.) – Springer – 2011
REFERENCES
1. Olivier Hersent, David Boswarthick, Omar Elloumi , “The Internet of Things – Key
applications and Protocols”, Wiley, 2012
2. The Internet of Things: Applications to the Smart Grid and Building Automation by –
Olivier Hersent, Omar Elloumi and David Boswarthick - Wiley -2012
3. Networks, Crowds, and Markets: Reasoning About a Highly Connected World - David
Easley and Jon Kleinberg, Cambridge University Press - 2010
218
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
ElectiveIV 3 0 3
(5EC73) DIGITAL IMAGE PROCESSING
(Common to ECE, EIE & IT)
Pre-requisites: Digital Signal processing
Course Objectives
• To introduce fundamentals of digital image processing and study image transforms
• To demonstrate digital image processing techniques in spatial and frequency
domains
• To study and compare various image compression algorithms
• To study advanced image analysis methods: image segmentation, morphological
image processing, & image restoration
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Acquire, represent the digital image and transforms
• Apply various intensity based image processing techniques
• Apply various pixel position based image processing techniques
UNIT I
Fundamentals of Image Processing: Digital Image Fundamentals, Basic steps of Image
Processing System, Sampling and Quantization of an image, relationship between pixels,
Imaging Geometry.
Image Transforms: 2 D- Discrete Fourier Transform, Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT), Haar
Transform, Hadmard Transform, Hotelling Transform and slant transform.
UNIT II
Image Enhancement: Spatial domain methods: Histogram processing, Fundamentals of
Spatial filtering, Smoothing spatial filters, Sharpening spatial filters.
Frequency domain methods: Basics of filtering in frequency domain, image smoothing,
image sharpening, Selective filtering.
219
UNIT III
Image Segmentation: Segmentation concepts, Point, Line and Edge Detection, Edge Linking
using Hough Transform, Thresholding, Region Based segmentation.
Wavelet based Image Processing: Introduction to wavelet Transform, Continuous wavelet
Transform, Discrete wavelet Transform, Filter banks, Wavelet based image compression
UNIT IV
Image Compression: Image compression fundamentals - Coding Redundancy, Spatial and
Temporal redundancy, Compression models: Lossy and Lossless, Huffman coding, Arithmetic
coding, LZW coding, Run length coding, Bit plane coding, Transform coding, Predictive coding,
JPEG 2000 Standards.
UNIT V
Image Restoration: Image Restoration Degradation model, Algebraic approach to restoration,
Inverse Filtering, Least Mean square filters.
Morphological Image Processing: Dilation and Erosion, Opening and closing, the hit or miss
Transformation, Overview of Digital Image Watermarking Methods
TEXT BOOKS
1. Digital Image Processing- Rafael C. Gonzalez and Richard E.Woods, 3rd
Edition, Pearson, 2008.
2. Digital Image Processing- S.Jayaraman, S Esakkirajan, T Veerakumar, TMH,
2010.
REFERENCES
1. Digital Image Processing-William K.Pratt, 3rd Edition, John Willey, 2004.
2. Fundamentals of Digital Image Processing-A.K.Jain, PHI, 1989.
3. Digital Image Processing using MATLAB - Rafael C. Gonzalez, Richard E.Woods
and Steven L.Edding 2nd, TMH. 2010.
4. Digital Image Processing and Computer Vision – Somka, Hlavac, Boyl,
Cengage Learning,2008
5. Introduction to image Processing and Analysis – John C. Russ, J. Christian
Russ,CRCPress, 2010
220
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE IISem L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(5EC84) AD-HOC WIRELESS NETWORKS
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Course Objectives
• To learn about fundamentals of Ad-hoc wireless networks.
• To learn about different types of MAC and ad-hoc routing protocols.
• Be expose to the TCP issues in Ad-hoc networks.
• Learn the architecture and protocols of wireless sensor networks.
• To learn about Qos and different power management schemes.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Explain the concepts, network architectures and applications of ad hoc wireless
sensor networks
• Analyze the protocol design issues of ad hoc wireless sensor networks
• Evaluate the QoS related performance measurements of ad hoc and sensor
networks
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION
Fundamentals of Wireless Communication Technology – The Electromagnetic Spectrum –
Radio propagation Mechanisms – Characteristics of the Wireless Channel -mobile ad hoc
networks (MANETs) and wireless sensor networks (WSNs) :concepts and architectures.
Applications of Ad Hoc and Sensor networks. Design Challenges in Ad hoc and Sensor
Networks.
UNIT II
MAC PROTOCOLS FOR AD HOC WIRELESS NETWORKS
Issues in designing a MAC Protocol- Classification of MAC Protocols- Contention based
protocols- Contention based protocols with Reservation Mechanisms- Contention based
protocols with Scheduling Mechanisms – Multi channel MAC-IEEE 802.11
221
UNIT III
ROUTING PROTOCOLS AND TRANSPORT LAYER IN AD HOC WIRELESS NETWORKS
Issues in designing a routing and Transport Layer protocol for Ad hoc networks- proactive
routing, reactive routing (on-demand), hybrid routing- Classification of Transport Layer
solutions-TCP over Ad hoc wireless Networks.
UNIT IV
WIRELESS SENSOR NETWORKS (WSNS) AND MAC PROTOCOLS
Single node architecture: hardware and software components of a sensor node - WSN Network
architecture: typical network architectures-data relaying and aggregation strategies -MAC layer
protocols: self-organizing, Hybrid TDMA/FDMA and CSMA based MAC- IEEE 802.15.4.
UNIT V
WSN ROUTING, LOCALIZATION & QOS
Issues in WSN routing – OLSR- Localization – Indoor and Sensor Network Localization-
absolute and relative localization, triangulation-QOS in WSN-Energy Efficient Design-
Synchronization-Transport Layer issues.
TEXT BOOKS
1. C. Siva Ram Murthy and B. S. Manoj, “Ad Hoc Wireless Networks Architectures and
Protocols”, Prentice Hall, PTR, 2004.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Carlos De Morais Cordeiro, Dharma Prakash Agrawal “Ad Hoc & Sensor Networks:
Theory and Applications”, World Scientific Publishing Company, 2006.
2. Feng Zhao and Leonides Guibas, "Wireless Sensor Networks", Elsevier Publication
- 2002.
3. Holger Karl and Andreas Willig “Protocols and Architectures for Wireless Sensor
Networks”, Wiley, 2005
4. Kazem Sohraby, Daniel Minoli, & Taieb Znati, “Wireless Sensor Networks-
Technology, Protocols, and Applications”, John Wiley, 2007.
5. Anna Hac, “Wireless Sensor Network Designs”, John Wiley, 2003.
222
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EI92) TECHNICAL SEMINAR
Course Objectives
• To make students learn about the contemporary technologies and present
effectively their study.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Identify a research topic related to advanced/state-of-the-art technologies.
• Collect the literature and comprehend/analyze critically the technological
advancements.
• Demonstrate effective communication skills through oral presentation.
• Engage in effective written communication through seminar report.
223
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 0 2
(5EI93) COMPREHENSIVE VIVA-VOCE
Course Objectives
• To make students review their learning of the past four years and instantaneously
recollect and present their learnings.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Comprehend the fundamentals and technical knowledge in Electronics &
Instrumentation Engineering and its allied fields.
• Apply and analyze Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering concepts in its allied
fields.
• To assess effectiveness of the communication.
224
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech EIE II Sem L T/P/D C
0 20 10
(5EI94) MAJOR PROJECT
Course Objectives
• To make students learn about the Industrial Process and develop solutions.
• To make students prepare documents and present their solutions.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Identify and formulate the problem (Industry/technical/societal).
• Analyze, design, and develop a solution to industry/technical/societal problems
• Implement and execute the solution.
• Demonstrate effective communication skills through oral presentation.
• Engage in effective written communication through project report.
225
