SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/R15/R15ECE.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
Electronics and Communication
Engineering
B.TECH. FOUR YEAR DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2015-2016)
VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous Institute, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
NBA Accreditation for CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT B.Tech. Programmes
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi, Affiliated to JNTUH
Recognized as “College with Potential for Excellence” by UGC
Vignana Jyothi Nagar, Pragathi Nagar, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500 090, TS, India.
Telephone No: 040-2304 2758/59/60, Fax: 040-23042761
E-mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
1
Vision and Mission of the Institute
VISION
To be a World Class University providing value-based education, conducting
interdisciplinary research in cutting edge technologies leading to sustainable socio-economic
development of the nation.
MISSION
➢ To produce technically competent and socially responsible engineers, managers and
entrepreneurs, who will be future ready.
➢ To involve students and faculty in innovative research projects linked with industry, academic
and research institutions in India and abroad.
➢ To use modern pedagogy for improving the teaching-learning process.
Vision and Mission of the Department
VISION
A resource center of academic excellence for imparting technical education with high pattern of
discipline through dedicated staff which shall set global standards, making National and
International students technologically superior and ethically strong, who in turn shall improve the
quality of life.
MISSION
➢ To provide quality education in the domain of Electronics and Communication Engineering
through effective learner centric process
➢ To provide industry specific best of breed laboratory facilities beyond curriculum to promote
diverse collaborative research for meeting the changing industrial and societal needs
2
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS FOR B.TECH. PROGRAMME
(Applicable for Students admitted from the academic year 2015-2016)
1. Programmes of study
• The following four year B.Tech. degree programmes of study are offered at VNR VJIET
from the academic year 2017-2018.
Branch
Branch
Code
01 Civil Engineering
02 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
03 Mechanical Engineering
04 Electronics and Communication Engineering
05 Computer Science and Engineering
10 Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
12 Information Technology
24 Automobile Engineering
• ‘ENGLISH’ language is used as the medium of instruction in all the above programmes.
1.1 Eligibility Criteria for Admission
The eligibility criteria for admission into engineering programmes shall be as mentioned
below:
• The candidate shall be an Indian National / NRI
• The candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st December of the
academic year for which the admissions are being conducted
• The candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or equivalent as
on the date of admission recognized by BIE, Telangana State
1.1.1 Seats in each programme in the Institution are classified into Category A and
Category B as per the G.Os.
3
Category – A Seats:
These seats shall be filled through counseling as per the rank in the Common Entrance
Test (EAMCET) conducted by the State Government and as per other admission criteria
laid down in the G.Os.
Category - B Seats:
These seats shall be filled by the Institute as per the G.Os issued by the State
Government from time to time.
1.1.2 Category: Lateral Entry
The candidate shall be admitted into the Third Semester, (2nd year, 1st semester) based
on the rank secured by the candidate in Engineering Common Entrance Test (ECET
(FDH)) by the Convener, ECET.
2. Distribution and Weights of Marks
i. The performance of a student in each semester shall be evaluated subject –wise with a
maximum of 100 marks for theory and 100 marks for practical subjects. In addition,
an Industry oriented mini-project, seminar, comprehensive viva-voce and project work
shall be evaluated for 100, 100, 100 and 200 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects, the distribution shall be 40 marks for Mid-term Evaluation and 60
marks for the Semester End Examination.
Mid-Term Evaluation (40 M):
Mid-term evaluation consists of mid-term examination (30 M) and assignment/test (10 M).
➢ Mid-term examination (30 M):
• For theory subjects, two mid examinations shall be conducted in each semester as
per the academic calendar. Each mid examination shall be evaluated for 30
marks.
PART-A 3 X 2M = 6 M (one question from each UNIT)
PART-B 3 X 8 M = 24 M (three internal choice questions one from each UNIT
shall be given, the student has to answer one question from each UNIT)
• 80 % weightage for better mid-term examination and 20% weightage for the other
mid examination shall be used and calculated as the final mid-term examination
marks for each subject.
➢ Assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project (10 M):
• Two assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project shall be given to the
students covering the syllabus of First Mid and Second Mid Examinations
respectively and evaluated for 10 marks each.
• The first assignment shall be submitted before first mid examination and second
assignment shall be submitted before second mid examination.
• The average of 2 assignments shall be taken as final assignment marks.
4
iii. For practical subjects, there shall be a continuous evaluation during the semester
for 40 marks and 60 marks for semester end examination. Out of the 40 marks, day-
to-day work in the laboratory shall be evaluated for 10 marks, and 15 marks for
practical examination and 15 marks for laboratory record.
NOTE: 1. Any student who shall remain absent for any assignment/Mid-term examination
for any reason what so ever, shall be deemed to have secured ‘zero’ marks in the
test/examination and no makeup test/examination shall be conducted.
2. Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
iv. For the subjects having design and / or drawing, (such as Engineering Graphics,
Geometrical Drawing, Machine Drawing, Production Drawing Practice, and Estimation
etc.,) the distribution shall be 40 marks for internal evaluation (20 marks for day-to-
day work and 20 marks for Mid examination (the average of the two examinations
shall be taken into account) and 60 marks for semester end examination.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
v. There shall be an industry-oriented mini-project, in collaboration with an industry of
their specialization, to be taken up during the summer vacation after III year II semester
examination. The industry oriented mini project shall be evaluated during the IV
year I semester. The industry oriented mini project shall be submitted in report form
and presented before a committee, which shall evaluate it for 100 marks. The
committee shall consist of Head of the Department, the supervisor of mini project and a
senior faculty member of the department. There shall be no mid-term assessment for
industry oriented mini project. However, attending the shadow engineering
program or any such other programme, in lieu thereof, is a pre-requisite for
evaluating industry-oriented mini project.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
vi. There shall be a seminar presentation in IV year II semester. For the seminar, the
student shall collect the information on a specialized topic other than the project topic
and prepare a technical report, showing his understanding of the topic, and submit to
the department, which shall be evaluated by a departmental committee consisting of the
Head of the department, seminar supervisor and a senior faculty member. The
seminar shall be evaluated for 100 marks based on the report and presentation
made.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
vii. There shall be a comprehensive viva-voce in IV year II semester. The
comprehensive viva-voce shall be conducted by a committee consisting of the Head of
the Department and three senior faculty members of the Department after submitting
the filled and duly signed M.T.P record. The comprehensive viva-voce is aimed to
assess the student’s understanding in various subjects studied during the B.Tech.
programme of study. The comprehensive viva-voce shall be evaluated for 100 marks
by the committee. There shall be no Mid-term assessment for the comprehensive
viva-voce.
5
Evaluation:-
a. Objective type examination – 50 marks. (Two hours test)
b. Committee evaluation – 50 marks.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s
viii. The project work shall be started by the student in the beginning of the IV year I
semester. Out of a total of 200 marks for the project work, 80 marks shall be for mid-
term evaluation and 120 marks for the semester end examination. The viva-voce
shall be conducted by a committee comprising an external examiner, Head of the
Department, the project supervisor and one senior faculty. The evaluation of project
work shall be conducted at the end of the IV year II Semester. The mid-term
evaluation shall be on the basis of three seminars conducted during the IV year II
semester for 80 marks by the committee consisting of Head of the Department,
project supervisor and senior faculty member of the Department.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s
3. Semester End Examination (60 M):
(a) Theory Courses
Question paper pattern for semester end examination (60 Marks) consists of two
sections i.e., Part-A and Part-B.
PART-A:
• Shall consist of 10 questions of 02 marks each. (10X2M = 20M)
• There shall be 02 questions from each unit.
• All the questions are compulsory.
PART-B:
• Shall consist of 05 questions of 08 marks each. (05X8M = 40M)
• There shall be 01 question from each unit with internal choice.
(b) Practical Courses
Each laboratory course shall be evaluated for 60 marks. The semester end examination
shall be conducted by two examiners, one Internal and other external concerned with
the subject of the same / other department / Industry. The evaluation shall be as per the
standard format.
(c) Supplementary Examinations
Supplementary examinations shall be conducted along with regular semester end
examinations. (During even semester regular examinations, supplementary
examinations of odd semester and during odd semester regular examinations,
supplementary examinations of even semester shall be conducted).
6
4. Attendance Requirements
i. A student shall be eligible to appear for the semester end examinations if he / she
acquire a minimum of 75% of attendance in aggregate of all the courses in that
semester.
ii. Shortage of attendance in aggregate up to 10% (attendance of 65% and above and
below 75%) in a semester may be condoned by the Institute Academic Committee
based on the rules prescribed by the Academic Council of the Institute from time
to time.
iii. A student shall not be permitted to write the semester end examination and not
promoted to the next semester unless he/she satisfies the attendance requirement of
the present semester, as applicable. He/She may seek re-admission for that semester
when offered next, if not promoted to the next semester.
iv. Shortage of attendance below 65% in aggregate shall in NO case be condoned.
v. Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned or who have not paid the
stipulated fee or who have not cleared any other due to the Institute in any semester are
not eligible to writer semester end examination of that semester.
5. Minimum Academic Requirements
The following academic requirements have to be satisfied in addition to the attendance
requirements mentioned in Regulation No.4.
i. A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic requirements and
earned the credits allotted to each theory or practical or design or drawing subject or
project, if he/she secures not less than 35% (21 out of 60 marks) of marks in the
semester end examination and a minimum of 40% of marks in the sum total of the
mid-term evaluation and semester end examination taken together.
ii. For promotion from II year II semester to III year I semester, the student needs to have
50% of credits up to II year II semester which includes
➢ Two regular and two supplementary examinations of I B Tech. I semester.
➢ Two regular and one supplementary examinations of I B Tech. II semester
➢ One regular and one supplementary examinations of II year I semester.
➢ One regular examinations of II year II semester.
iii. For promotion from III year II semester to IV year I semester, the student needs to have
50% of credits up to III year II semester which includes
➢ Three regular and three supplementary examinations of I B Tech. I semester.
➢ Three regular and two supplementary examinations of I B Tech. II semester
➢ Two regular and two supplementary examinations of II year I semester.
➢ Two regular and one supplementary examinations of II year II semester.
➢ One regular and one supplementary examination of III year I semester.
➢ One regular examination of III year II semester.
iv. A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 188 credits
and earn atleast 180 credits for the award of B.Tech. degree. The grade obtained
for the minimum credits shall be considered for the calculation of CGPA.
7
v. The students shall take one open elective subject each from the lists given in open
elective-1 and open elective-2. The selected subjects shall not belong to their own
branch.
vi. The student shall be qualified in two certificate courses during his/her course of study.
vii. “Gender Sensitization” is compulsory value added course as per the JNTUH procds. No.
A1/2557/XXII SCAS/2015(2), dated 19.11.2015.
viii. Students who fail to earn atleast 180 credits as indicated in the course structure within
eight academic years counting from the year of their admission shall forfeit their
seat in B.Tech. programme and their admission stands cancelled.
6. Course pattern
i. The entire programme of study is of four academic years. All I, II, III and IV years are
of semester pattern.
ii. A student eligible to appear for the semester end examination in a subject, but absent or
has failed in the semester end examination may reappear for that subject in the
supplementary examination whenever conducted.
iii. When a student is detained due to shortage of attendance in any semester, he/she shall
seek readmission into that semester when it is offered next, with the academic
regulations of the batch into which he/she gets readmitted and has to obtain the
degree within 8 academic years from the year of his/her original admission.
iv. When a student is detained due to lack of credits in any year, he/she may be eligible for
promotion to the next year after obtaining the required number of credits and fulfillment
of the academic requirements.
7. Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. degree if he/she fulfils the
following academic regulations:
i. Pursued a programme of study for not less than four academic years and not
more than eight academic years.
ii. Registered for 188 credits and secured a minimum of 180 credits with compulsory
subjects as listed in the following Table.
Table: Compulsory Courses
S. No. Courses Particulars
1. All Practical Courses
2. Industry oriented mini project
3. Comprehensive Viva-Voce
4. Seminar
5. Project work
6. Engineering Graphics / Engineering Drawing / Machine Drawing
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award of the
degree within eight academic years from the year of their admission, shall forfeit their seat
in B.Tech. programme.
8
8. CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points in four year B.Tech. degree
programme is as follows:
• Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the total marks obtained in mid-term
and semester end examinations.
• Grades and Grade points are assigned as given below.
Description Grade Points(GP)
Marks Obtained Grade
of Grade Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A+ Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 A Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 B Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 C Fair 6.00
>=40 and <49.99 D Pass 5.00
<40 F Fail
--
Not Appeared the Exam(s) N Absent
• The student is eligible for the award of the B.Tech. degree with the class as
mentioned in the following table.
CGPA Class
>= 7.5 First Class with Distinction
>= 6.5 and <7.5 First Class
>= 5.5 and < 6.5 Second Class
>=5.0 and < 5.5 Pass Class
9
➢ Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
The performance of each student at the end of the each semester shall be indicated in terms
of SGPA. The SGPA shall be calculated as below:
Where Ci = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘i’
Gi = Grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to the subject ‘i’
i = 1,2,…..p represent the number of subjects in a particular semester
Note: SGPA is calculated and awarded for the candidates who pass all the courses in a
semester.
➢ Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA):
The CGPA of a student for the entire programme shall be calculated as given below:
• Assessment of the overall performance of a student shall be obtained by calculating
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA), which is weighted average of the grade
points obtained in all subjects during the course of study.
Where Cj = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘j’
Gj = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to that subject ‘j’
j = 1,2,….m represent the number of subjects of the entire program.
• Grade lower than D in any subject shall not be considered for CGPA calculation. The
CGPA shall be awarded only when the student acquires the required number of credits
prescribed for the program.
10
➢ Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
9. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to the Institute, or if any case of indiscipline is pending
against him, the result of the candidate may be withheld. The award or issue of the
Provisional Certificate and the Degree may also be withheld in such cases.
10. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or any other
academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and when they become
eligible. They have to take up Equivalent subjects, as substitute subjects in place of repeated
subjects as decided by the Chairman of the BoS of the respective departments. He/She shall
be admitted under the regulation of the batch in which he/she is readmitted.
11. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each semester shall be 90 instruction days.
12. There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission process.
13. The decision of the Institute Academic Committee shall be final in respect of
equivalent subjects for those students who are transferred from other colleges. The
transfer of students from other college or from this institute is to be approved by the
Governing Council of the Institute.
14. General
i. Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include “she”, “her”,
“hers”.
ii. The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
iii. In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arising in the above rules and
regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
iv. The Chairman Academic Council may change or amend any or all of the academic
regulations or syllabi at any time and the changes or amendments made shall be
applicable to all the students concerned with effect from the dates notified by the
College.
15. Academic Regulations for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2016-2017)
A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. degree if he/she fulfils the
following academic regulations:
11
i. Pursued a programme of study for not less than three academic years and not
more than six academic years.
ii. Registered for 138 credits and secured a minimum of 130 credits with compulsory
subjects as listed in the following Table.
Table: Compulsory Courses
S. No. Courses Particulars
1. All Practical Courses
2. Industry oriented mini project
3. Comprehensive Viva-Voce
4. Seminar
5. Project work
6. Engineering Graphics / Engineering Drawing / Machine Drawing
iii. A student who fails to earn a minimum of 130 credits as indicated in the course
structure within six academic years from the year of their admission shall forfeit
his/her seat in B.Tech. programme and his admission stands cancelled.
iv. The same attendance regulations are adopted as that of B.Tech. four year degree
course.
v. For promotion from III year II semester to IV year I semester, the student needs to have
50% of credits up to III year II semester which includes
➢ Two regular and two supplementary examinations of II B Tech. I semester
➢ Two regular and one supplementary examinations of II B Tech. II semester
➢ One regular and one supplementary examinations of III B.Tech. I semester
➢ One regular of examinations of III year II semester
vi. All other regulations as applicable to B.Tech. four year degree course shall hold good
for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme).
16. Malpractice Rules
Disciplinary Action for Malpractices/Improper Conduct in Examinations
Nature of Malpractices/Improper
S.
conduct
Punishment
No.
If the candidate:
(a) Possesses or keeps accessible in
examination hall, any paper, note book,
programmable calculators, Cell phones,
1. pager, palm computers or any other form Expulsion from the examination hall
of material concerned with or related to and cancellation of the
the subject of the examination (theory or performance in that subject only.
practical) in which he is appearing but
has not made use of (material shall
include any marks on the body of the
candidate which can be used as an aid
12
in the subject of the examination)
(b)Gives assistance or guidance or Expulsion from the examination hall
receives it from any other candidate and cancellation of the
orally or by any other body language performance in that subject only of
methods or communicates through cell all the candidates involved. In case
phones with any candidate or persons in of an outsider, he shall be handed
or outside the exam hall in respect of over to the police and a case is
any matter. registered against him.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of the
performance in that subject and all
other subjects the candidate has
Has copied in the examination hall from
already appeared including
any paper, book, programmable
practical examinations and project
calculators, palm computers or any other
2. work and shall not be permitted to
form of material relevant to the subject of
appear for the remaining
the examination (theory or practical) in
examinations of the subjects of that
which the candidate is appearing.
Semester/year.
The Hall Ticket of the candidate is
to be cancelled.
The candidate who has
impersonated shall be expelled
from examination hall. The
candidate is also debarred and
forfeits the seat. The performance
of the original candidate, who has
been impersonated, shall be
cancelled in all the subjects of the
examination (including practicals
and project work) already appeared
Impersonates any other candidate in
3. and shall not be allowed to appear
connection with the examination.
for examinations of the remaining
subjects of that semester/year.
The candidate is also debarred for
two consecutive semesters from
class work and all end semester
examinations. The continuation of
the course by the candidate is
subject to the academic regulations
in connection with forfeiture of seat.
If the imposter is an outsider, he
shall be handed over to the police
13
and a case is registered against
him.
4.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of performance in
that subject and all the other
subjects the candidate has already
appeared including practical
examinations and project work and
Smuggles the Answer book or additional
shall not be permitted for the
sheet or takes out or arranges to send
remaining examinations of the
out the question paper during the
subjects of that semester/year. The
examination or answer book or
candidate is also debarred for two
additional sheet, during or after the
consecutive semesters from class
examination.
work and all end semester and
supplementary examinations The
continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the
academic regulations in connection
with forfeiture of seat.
Uses objectionable, abusive or offensive
language in the answer paper or in
Cancellation of the performance in
5. letters to the examiners or writes to the
that subject.
examiner requesting him to award pass
marks.
Refuses to obey the orders of the Chief In case of students of the college,
Superintendent/Assistant– they shall be expelled from
Superintendent / any officer on duty or examination halls and cancellation
misbehaves or creates disturbance of of their performance in that subject
any kind in and around the examination and all other subjects the
hall or organizes a walk out or instigates candidate(s) has (have) already
others to walk out, or threatens the appeared and shall not be
officer-in charge or any person on duty permitted to appear for the
6.
in or outside the examination hall of any remaining examinations of the
injury to his person or to any of his subjects of that semester/year.
relations whether by words, either The candidates are also debarred
spoken or written or by signs or by and they shall forfeit their seats. In
visible representation, assaults the case of outsiders, they shall be
officer-in-charge, or any person on duty handed over to the police and a
in or outside the examination hall or any police case is registered against
of his relations, or indulges in any other them.
act of misconduct or mischief which
14
result in damage to or destruction of
property in the examination hall or any
part of the College campus or engages
in any other act which in the opinion of
the officer on duty amounts to use of
unfair means or misconduct or has the
tendency to disrupt the orderly conduct
of the examination.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of performance in
that subject and all the other
subjects the candidate has already
appeared including practical
examinations and project work and
shall not be permitted for the
Leaves the exam hall taking away remaining examinations of the
answer script or intentionally tears of the subjects of that semester/year.
7.
script or any part thereof inside or The candidate is also debarred for
outside the examination hall. two consecutive semesters from
class work and all end semester
examinations including
supplementary Examinations. The
continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the
academic regulations in connection
with forfeiture of seat.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of the
performance in that subject and all
other subjects the candidate has
Possesses any lethal weapon or firearm
already appeared including
in the examination hall.
8. practical examinations and project
work and shall not be permitted for
the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year.
The candidate is also debarred and
forfeits the seat.
If the student belongs to the
If student of the college, who is not a
college, expulsion from the
candidate for the particular examination
9. examination hall and cancellation of
or any person not connected with the
the performance in that subject and
college indulges in any malpractice or
all other subjects the candidate has
improper conduct mentioned in any of
already appeared including
15
clauses 6 to 8. practical examinations and project
work and shall not be permitted for
the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred and
forfeits the seat.
Person(s) who do not belong
to the College shall be handed over
to police and, a police case shall be
registered against them.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of the
performance in that subject and all
other subjects the candidate has
Comes in a drunken condition to the already appeared including
10.
examination hall. practical examinations and project
work and shall not be permitted for
the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that series of the
semester/year.
Cancellation of the performance in
that subject and all other subjects
Copying detected on the basis of internal
the candidate has appeared
11. evidence, such as, during valuation or
including practical examinations
during special scrutiny.
and project work of that
semester/year.
If any malpractice is detected which is
not covered in the above clauses 1 to 11
12. shall be reported to the academic
council of the Institute for further action
to award suitable punishment.
Malpractices identified by squad or special invigilators
Punishments shall be given to the candidates as per the above guidelines.
16
Malpractice identified at Spot center during valuation
The following procedure is to be followed in the case of malpractice cases detected during
valuation, scrutiny etc. at spot center.
1) Malpractice is detected at the spot valuation. The case is to be referred to the
malpractice committee. Malpractice committee shall meet and discuss/question the
candidate and based on the evidences, the committee shall recommend suitable
action on the candidate.
2) A notice is to be served to the candidate(s) involved, through the Principal, to his
address and to the candidate(s) permanent address regarding the malpractice and
seek explanations.
3) The involvement of staff who are in charge of conducting examinations, invigilators,
examiners valuing examination papers and preparing / keeping records of documents
related to the examinations in such acts (inclusive of providing incorrect or misleading
information) that infringe upon the course of natural justice to one and all concerned at
the examinations shall be viewed seriously and recommend for award of appropriate
punishment after thorough enquiry.
4) Based on the explanation by the party involved and recommendations of the
committee action may be initiated.
5) Malpractice committee:
i. Dean, Academics Chairman
ii. Controller of Examinations Convener
iii. Invigilator Member
iv. Chief Examiner of the subject/subject expert Member
v. Concerned Head of the Department Member
17
Programme Educational Objectives
1) To produce Electronics and Communication Engineering Professionals with a solid
foundation in Mathematics, Science and Technology which is essential to solve engineering
problems.
2) To train students in good scientific and engineering practices so that they comprehend,
analyze, design, and create novel products and offer solutions for industry specific processes
and real life problems.
3) To prepare students to adopt the learning culture needed for a successful professional
career by encouraging them to acquire higher qualifications, take up research and keep
abreast of latest technological developments.
4) To inculcate organizing and managerial skills essential for professional growth.
5) To develop the consciousness among students towards universal moral values and
professional ethics while developing innovative solutions to meet the societal needs.
18
Programme Outcomes
a. An ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science and engineering as appropriate
to the field of electronics and communication engineering practice.
b. An ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as analyze and interpret the data.
c. An ability to design a system or process to meet the real life and societal problems.
d. An ability to perform investigations, design as well as conduct experiments, analyze and
interpret the results to provide valid conclusions.
e. An ability to select and apply appropriate techniques for the design & analysis of
systems using modern CAD tools.
f. An ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems in the context of health
safety and legal issues of the society.
g. An ability to understand the effects of the engineering solutions in a global, economic,
environmental and societal context.
h. An ability to develop consciousness of professional, ethical and social responsibilities as
experts in the field of Electronics and Communication Engineering.
i. An ability to perform effectively as a member/leader in multidisciplinary teams.
j. An ability to communicate effectively with both the peers and the others, and give as
well receives clear instructions.
k. An ability to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and
management principles to manage projects in multidisciplinary environment.
l. An ability to demonstrate resourcefulness to resolve contemporary issues and acquire
lifelong learning.
19
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
Regulations- R15
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course Code Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
5BS11 Advanced Calculus 3 0 3
5BS21 Engineering Physics 3 0 3
5BS01 English 3 0 3
5CS01 Computer Programming 3 1 4
5CE03 Environmental Studies 3 0 3
5ME19 Engineering Drawing 2 4 4
English Language Communication Skills
5BS02 0 3 2
Laboratory
5CS51 Computer Programming Laboratory 0 3 2
5ME53 IT and Engineering Workshop 0 3 2
Total 17 14 26
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course Code Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Ordinary Differential Equations and
5BS12 3 0 3
Laplace Transforms
5BS13 Computational Methods 3 0 3
5BS23 Advanced Engineering Physics 3 0 3
5BS32 Engineering Chemistry 3 0 3
5EE01 Circuit Theory 3 1 4
5IT02 Data Structures 3 1 4
Engineering Physics and Engineering
5BS25 0 3 2
Chemistry Laboratory
5IT52 Data Structures Laboratory 0 3 2
Total 18 08 24
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
20
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B. TECH ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course Code Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
5BS15 Fourier and Complex Analysis 3 0 3
5EC01 Electronic Devices and Circuits 3 1 4
5EC02 Probability Theory and Stochastic
3 1 4
Processes
5EI03 Signals and Systems 3 0 3
5EE21 Principles of Electrical Engineering 3 0 3
5EC51 Electronic Devices and Circuits Laboratory 0 3 2
5EC52 Basic Simulation Laboratory
0 3 2
5EE61 Electrical Engineering Laboratory
0 3 2
Total
15 11 23
#5BS04 Gender Sensitization - 3 2
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5EC03 Switching Theory and Logic Design 3 0 3
5EC04 Electronic Circuit Analysis 3 0 3
5EC05 Electromagnetic Theory and Transmission
3 0 3
Lines
5EI04 Pulse and Digital Circuits 3 0 3
5EC06 Analog Communications 3 0 3
5EE08 Control Systems 3 1 4
5EC53 Analog Communications Laboratory 0 3 2
5EC54 Electronic and Pulse Circuits Laboratory 0 3 2
Total 18 7 23
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
# Value added Course
21
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
III YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5IT04 Computer Organization 3 0 3
5EI06 Linear and Digital IC Applications 3 0 3
5EC07 Digital Communications 3 0 3
5EC08 Antennas and Wave Propagation 3 1 4
Open Elective-I 3 0 3
5BS03 Advanced English Communication Skills
0 3 2
Laboratory
5EI54 Linear and digital IC Applications
0 3 2
Laboratory
5EC55 Digital Communications Laboratory
0 3 2
Total 15 10 22
Open Elective - I
Course Course Name Course Offered By
the Department
Code
5CE71 Disaster Management CIVIL
5EE71 Renewable Energy Technologies EEE
5ME71 Digital Fabrication ME
5EC71 Principles of Electronic Communications ECE
5CS71 Object Oriented Programming Through Java CSE
5EI71 Principles of Measurements and Instrumentation EIE
5IT71 Cyber Security IT
5AE71 Principles of Automobile Engineering AE
5BS71 Professional Ethics and Human Values H&S
22
III YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5BS41 Business Economics and Financial
3 0 3
Analysis
5EC09 Microprocessors and Microcontrollers
3 0 3
5EC10 Digital Signal Processing 3 1 4
5EC11 Microwave Engineering 3 0 3
5EI20 Electronic Measurements and
3 0 3
Instrumentation
Open Elective –II 3 0 3
5EC56 Microprocessors and Microcontrollers
0 3 2
Laboratory
5EC57 Digital Signal Processing Laboratory
0 3 2
Total 18 7 23
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
Open Elective - II
Course Course Name Course Offered By
the Department
Code
5CE72 Introduction to Geographical Information System CIVIL
5EE72 Energy Auditing Conservation and Management EEE
5ME72 Optimization Techniques ME
5EC72 Introduction to Micro Processors and Controllers ECE
5EC95 Wireless Communications and Networks ECE
5CS72 Open Source Technologies CSE
5EI72 LabVIEW Programming EIE
5EI79 Fundamentals of Robotics EIE
5IT72 Relational Database Management Systems IT
5AE72 Modern Automotive Technologies AE
5BS72 Entrepreneurship H&S
23
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
B. TECH ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
IV YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5EC12 VLSI Design 3 0 3
5EC13 Cellular and Mobile Communications 3 0 3
5IT06 Computer Networks 3 0 3
5BS42 Management Science 3 0 3
Elective – I
5EC73 Digital Image Processing
5EC74 Optical Communications
3 0 3
5EC75 Digital Television Engineering
5EE80 Artificial Neural Networks and Fuzzy Logic
Elective – II
5EC76 RADAR Systems
5EC77 Telecommunication Switching Systems
3 0 3
5EC78 Digital Design through Verilog
5EC79 Internet of Things
5EC58 Microwave Engineering Laboratory
0 3 2
5EC59 ECAD and VLSI Laboratory 0 3 2
5EC91 Industry Oriented Mini Project 0 4 2
Total
18 10 24
*Major Project initiated in I.Sem and Evaluated in II.Sem
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
24
IV YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5EC14 Embedded Real Time Operating Systems 3 0 3
Elective –III
5EC80 DSP Processors and Architectures
5EC81 Satellite Communications
3 0 3
5IT08 Operating Systems
5EC82 Software Defined Radio
Elective – IV
5EC83 Speech Processing
5EC84 Adhoc Wireless Networks
3 0 3
5EC85 CPLD and FPGA Architectures
5EI07 Bio-Medical Instrumentation
5EC92 Technical Seminar
0 3 2
5EC93 Comprehensive Viva-Voce
0 0 2
5EC94 Project Work
0 20 10
Total 09 23 23
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
25
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS11) ADVANCED CALCULUS
(Common to all Branches)
Pre-requisites
• Differentiation, Integration
Course Objectives
• Understand the Taylor’s theorem and its application to maxima and minima of f(x,y)
• Understand the process of curve Tracing.
• Understand multiple integrals and its applications
• Apply integral theorems of vector calculus.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Solve problems involving the maxima and minima of f(x,y).
• Trace curves using basic characteristics.
• Evaluate integrals using special functions and change of variables.
• Evaluate vector integrals.
UNIT I
CALCULUS OF ONE AND SEVERAL REAL VARIABLES
Mean value theorems – Rolle’s Theorem, Lagrange’s Mean value theorem Cauchy’s Mean value
theorem , Taylor’s expansion and McLaurin’s expansion of functions (without proofs).
Partial differentiation, partial derivatives of first and second order in terms of partial derivatives,
change of variables , Jacobian, Taylor’s theorem of two variables(without proof). Maxima and
Minima of two variables, Langrange’s method of undetermined multipliers.
UNIT II
CURVE TRACING AND RELATED APPLICATIONS
Radius of Curvature of curves in Cartesian, parametric and polar coordinates. Tracing of curves
in Cartesian, parametric and polar coordinates (like conics, astroid, hypocycloid, Folium of
Descartes, Cycloid, Circle, Cardiode, Lemniscate).
UNIT III
MULTIPLE INTEGRALS
Beta, Gamma and Error functions, Introduction of Multiple integrals , evaluation of double and
triple integrals, change of order of integration change of variables , Cylindrical and Spherical
polar coordinates.
UNIT IV
VECTOR DIFFERENTIAL CALCULUS
Scalar and Vector point functions, Gradient, Divergence, Curl with geometrical & physical
interpretation, Directional derivatives, vector identities (without proofs).
26
UNIT V
VECTOR INTEGRAL CALCULUS
Line integrals and application to Work done and Circulation, Scalar potential function, Surface
integrals and Volume integrals, Gauss divergence theorem, Green’s theorem , Stokes’ theorem
(theorems without proof).
TEXT BOOKS
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – by B. S. Grewal, Publisher: Khanna
2. Calculus and Analytic Geometry by Thomas and Finney, 9th edition, Publisher: Pearson
Education.
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition, Publisher: John
Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter ‘O’ Neil, publisher: Cengage Learning .
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa
Publications
27
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS21) ENGINEERING PHYSICS
(Common to all Branches)
Course Objectives
• To supplement and enhance the knowledge of basic concepts in physics essentially
required in the study of interaction of light with matter and behavior of a particle
quantum mechanically.
• To Study and understand various phenomena of light- Interference, Diffraction,
Dispersion and total internal reflection.
• To learn and enhance the basic concepts in physics required to deal with large
number of particles and behavior of an electron in metals.
• To understand the basic principles and working of lasers and optical fibers.
• To learn simple applications of these concepts and principles in engineering and
technology.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Realize influence of diffraction and resolvability in optical elements.
• Recognize importance of interference in thin films.
• Distinguish LASER light from ordinary light and describe propagation of light
through Optical fiber by Total Internal reflection.
• Illustrate behavior of a particle in one dimensional potential box.
• Understand behavior of electron in a periodic potential in real crystal and classify Solids
based on conduction.
UNIT I
INTERFERENCE
Introduction, Superposition principle, Resultant amplitude, Coherence - Methods to obtain
coherent sources, Interference, Young’s Double Slit Experiment, interference in thin films by
reflection, Newton’s rings Experiment-Formation of Rings and Experimental Method,
Characteristics of rings, Applications.
UNIT II
DIFFRACTION
Introduction, Distinguish between Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction, diffraction at single slit
(Phasors approach), Diffraction at double slit, circular aperture, and multiple slits
(grating)(Qualitative Approach)-Width of Principal Maxima and Dispersion, Resolution of spectral
lines, Rayleigh criterion, and resolving power of grating.
28
UNIT III
LASERS AND OPTICAL FIBERS
Introduction, Characteristics of Lasers, Spontaneous and Stimulated Emission of radiation, Meta
stable state, population inversion, lasing action, Einstein’s coefficients and relation between them,
Ruby Laser, Helium-Neon Laser, Semiconductor Laser.
Principle of optical fiber and Properties, Acceptance angle and acceptance cone, Numerical
aperture, Types of fibers based on refractive index profiles, Qualitative analysis of attenuation in
optical fibers, Application of Lasers and Optical fibers.
UNIT IV
ELEMENTS OF QUANTUM MECHANICS
Waves and particles, De Broglie hypothesis, Matter waves, Davisson and Germer experiment,
Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle- Applying it to Non existence of electron in Nucleus and Single
slit Experiment.
Schrodinger Wave Equation – Wave function and its Physical Significance, Particle in one
dimensional potential box(wave functions, probability densities and energy states), Maxwell-
Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics (non-mathematical treatment).
UNIT V
ELECTRON THEORY OF METALS
Energy levels in one dimension, Effect of temperature on the Fermi-Dirac distribution, Electrical
conductivity & Ohm’s law, Electrical Resistivity of Metals (Qualitative), Electron in a periodic
potential, Bloch Theorem, Kronig-Penney model (non-mathematical treatment), Origin of energy
band formation in solids, Classification of materials into conductors, semiconductors & Insulators
and Concept of effective mass of an electron.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Physics vol.2, by Halliday, Resnick and Krane; John Wiley & Sons
2. Engineering Physics by R.K.Gaur and S.L.Gupta; Dhanpat Rai and Sons
REFERENCES
1. Optics by Ghatak and Thyagarajan, Tata Mc Graw
2. Concepts of Modern physics by Arthur Beiser, McGraw Hill Inc.
3. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel : John Wiley & Sons
4. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd.
5. Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
29
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech (Common to all branches) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS01) ENGLISH
Introduction
This is the age of information and communication technologies. Engineers and technical
professionals need to convey technical information in English for various purposes.
Besides learning general English as an international language, engineering students need to be
equipped with adequate writing ability so that they can communicate technical information clearly
on at least a basic level. A good English writing proficiency can be a contributing factor to
professional recognition and career prospects. This course teaches those writing strategies that
scientists, engineers, and others will need in order to write successfully on the job. It initiates the
students into Technical Writing. The purposes of technical writing are to inform and persuade.
This program aims to train students in writing clear, concise and effective English and also
develop their reading skills.
This Syllabus is therefore, a Pragmatic English Writing and Reading Program for engineering
students with intermediate proficiency. The program covers a syllabus outline and instructional
approaches on basic writing and reading skills with particular reference to technical writing.
Course Objectives:
• To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for academic writing and speaking.
• To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns, reading techniques
and grammatical constructions required in technical writing as well as oral
communication.
• To acquaint the students with the writing process in preparation for academic and
workplace writing.
• Equip the students with the concept of coherence and cohesion for meaningful and
coherent communication.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
• Comprehend technical writing produced in the engineering profession
• Understand the writing process and create logical paragraphs
• Use infrastructural patterns in writing and speaking
• Students communicate coherently orally and in writing.
Methodology
A Task-based, process oriented methodology will be used by the teachers to give a practical
orientation to the teaching of language. An inductive approach will be used to demonstrate the
use of language in context. This should enable the students to internalize the language structures
and vocabulary used in context. Students will be exposed to numerous examples and ample
practice will be given in the contextual use of language structures.
Unit I : Review of Grammar
i) Common Errors v) Use of Articles and Prepositions
ii) Subject-Verb Agreement vi) Conjunctions
iii) Adverbs vii) pronoun reference
iv) Transitional elements
30
Unit II : Prose 1
• Heaven’s Gate by Pico Iyer
• The Connoisseur by Nergis Dalal
Unit III : Reading and Writing Skills
• Reading Comprehension -- Skimming & scanning
• Reading Comprehension -- Intensive & extensive reading
• Paragraph Writing
• Letter Writing
• Memo Writing
Unit IV : Prose 2
• The Cuddalore Experience by Anu George
• The Odds Against Us by Satyajit Ray
Unit V : Writing Skills
1. Comparison and Contrast Pattern
2. Cause and Effect Pattern
3. Classification
4. Analogy (Introductory Level)
5. Problem-Solution Pattern
TEXT BOOKS
• Enjoying Everyday English by A. Ramakrishna Rao
• Effective Technical Communication by Ashraf Rizvi
• Technical Writing Process and Product by Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson 3rd
edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
REFERENCES
• M. Raman and S. Sharma, 2004; Technical Communication : Principles and Practices,
OUP, (Indian Edition)
• Blanton, L.L. 1993; Composition Practice, Book 4 ,Second Edition, Heinle & Heinle
Publishers, pp. 54
• Georges, T.M. 1996; A course in Analytical Writing for Science and Technology,
http://www.mspiggy.etl.noaa.gov/write/
31
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5CS01) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING
(Common to EEE, ECE, CSE, EIE & IT)
Pre-requisites
• Basic computer Knowledge
Course Objectives
• To Relate basics of programming language constructs and problem solving techniques
• To classify and implement derived data types
• To analyze and develop effective modular programming
• To construct mathematical problems and real time applications using C language
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Develop algorithm, flow chart and pseudo code for a given mathematical problems
• Write, compile and debug programs using different programming constructs in C
language.
• Use of different Basic and derived data types in C.
• Design programs using modular structures
UNIT I
Computer fundamentals-Hardware, software, computer language , translators, Program
Development steps-Algorithms, Pseudo code, flow charts, basic Linux commands
,Introduction to C Language – History, Simple C Program, Identifiers, Basic data types, user
defined data types, Variables, Constants, type qualifiers, Managing Input / Output,
Operators, Expressions, Precedence and Associativity, Expression Evaluation, Type
conversions, Simple C Programming examples.
UNIT II
Selection Statements – if and switch statements, Repetitive statements – while, for, do-while
statements, C Programming examples, other statements related to looping – break,
continue, go to, C Programming examples.
UNIT III
Arrays– Basic concepts, one-dimensional arrays, two – dimensional arrays, multidimensional
arrays, C programming examples.
Introduction to Structured Programming Functions- basics, user defined functions, inter
function communication, Standard functions, Storage classes-auto, register, static, extern,
scope rules, arrays to functions, recursive functions, example C programs.
.
UNIT IV
Strings – Basic concepts, String Input / Output functions, arrays of strings, string handling
functions, strings to functions, C programming examples
32
Derived types – Structures – Basic concepts, nested structures, arrays of structures,
structures and functions, unions, bit fields, C programming examples.
UNIT V
Preprocessor Directives, Pointers – Basic concepts, pointers and functions, pointers and
strings, pointers and arrays, pointers and structures, self-referential structures , example C
programs.
TEXT BOOKS
1. C programming A Problem-Solving Approach by Behrouz .Forouzan
E.V.Prasad,RichardF.Gilberg
2. Computer Programming and Data Structures by E Balagurusamy, Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES
1. The C Programming Language by Brian W. Kernighan, Dennis M. Ritchie.
2. Absolute beginner's guide to C, Greg M. Perry, Edition 2,Publisher: Sams Pub.,
1994.
3. Computer Programming and Data Structures by E Balagurusamy, Tata McGraw
Hill.
4. Let Us C Yashavant kanetkar BPB
33
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE– I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE03) ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
(Common to all Branches)
Course Objectives
• Recognize the importance of environment and ecosystem
• Identify & Analyze human activities and its impact on environment.
• List and understand about the importance of natural resources, Biodiversity & effect
of environment pollution
• Understand about environmental regulations ,economy and environment interaction
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Acquire the knowledge about importance of environment & ecosystem
• Develop skills in understanding of various environmental problems
• Find the solution and strategies to protect the Environment
• List & Distinguish various organizations, regulations for environment protection
UNIT I
Environmental Studies:
Introduction, Definition, scope and importance. Ecosystems: Introduction, types, characteristic
features, structure and functions of ecosystems. Bio-geo-chemical cycle, Classification of
Ecosystem.
Bio-diversity and its conservation- Value of bio-diversity, Bio-geographical classification of
India – India as a mega diversity habitat, Threats to bio-diversity –Hot-spots, habitat loss,
poaching of wild life, loss of species, seeds, etc. Conservation of bio-diversity – In-situ and Ex-situ
conservation.
UNIT II
Natural Resources: classification of Resources, Land resources, Common property resources,
Land degradation, Soil erosion and desertification, Effects of modern agriculture, fertilizer –
pesticide problems, Forest resources, Use and over-exploitation, food resources, food miles.
Mining and dams – benefits & effects, Water resources, Use and over - utilization of surface and
groundwater, Floods, droughts, Water logging and salinity, Conflicts over Water, Energy
resources.
34
UNIT III
Environmental pollution and its control: Classification of pollution and pollutants, Air pollution,
Causes, Effects, Control measures, ambient air quality standards, water pollution causes, effects,
control measures, water quality standards, Marine pollution causes, effects & control measures,
noise pollution causes, effects and control measures, land pollution causes, effects and control
measures, solid waste management, e-waste management.
UNIT IV
Global environmental problems and global efforts: Nuclear hazards, Nuclear Pollution, Global
warming, Acid rains, ozone layer depletion, over population, hazardous waste. Clean
development mechanism, green building, carbon credits, carbon trading.
International Conventions/protocols: UNEP, UNFCC, Earth summit, Kyoto protocol, Montreal
protocol and Stockholm declaration.
UNIT V
Environmental policy, legislation, rules and regulations : National Environmental Policy
Environmental Protection act, Legal aspects Air (Prevention anc Control of pollution ) Act- 1981,
Water( Prevention and Control of pollution ) Act-1974, Water pollution Cess Act-1977, Forest
Conservation Act, Municipal solid waste management and handling rules, biomedical waste
management and handling rules, hazardous waste management and handling rules .
Economy and Environment, The economy and environment interaction, Economics of
development, preservation and Conservation, Sustainability: theory and practices.
Environmental Impact Assessment, Rain water harvesting, cloud seeding and watershed
management.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Environmental Science by Y.Anjaneyulu, B S Publications, 2004.
2. Environmental studies by Deeksha dave, Cengage learning India Pvt. Ltd, 1st edition,
2011.
3. Environmental Science and Technology by M. Anji Reddy, B S Publications, 2010.
REFERENCES:
1. Environmental Studies for UG Courses, Bharucha Erach, UGC Publications, Delhi, 2004.
2. Environmental Encyclopedia by Cunningham, W.P., et al., Jaico Publishing House,
Mumbai, 2003.
3. Environmental sciences and Engineering by P.Venugopal Rao, PHI Learning Pvt. Ltd.,
35
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
2 4 4
(5ME19) ENGINEERING DRAWING
(Common to EEE, ECE, EIE, CSE & IT)
Course Prerequisites: Geometrical construction
Course Objectives:
• Understand the Usage of Drawing Instruments & Auto Cad Commands.
• Understand the Construction Method for Drawing Engineering Curves.
• Understand the Concept of Principal of Projections of Lines, Planes and Solids.
• Understand the Conversion of Isometric to Orthographic Projections and Vice-
Versa.
Learning Outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply Auto Cad Commands to Construct Engineering Curves.
• Draw the Projections of Lines, Planes and Solids with different Positions.
• Construct different positions of Lines, Planes and Solids in Auto Cad Software.
• Visualize the Objects in the Conversion Process of Isometric Projections to
Orthographic projections and Vice-Versa.
UNIT I
Introduction to Engineering Drawing; Introduction to AutoCAD; Construction of Ellipse, Parabola
and Hyperbola – General and Special methods; Cycloidal curves.
UNIT II
Projections of points; Projections of lines and planes – inclined to one plane and inclined to both
the planes.
UNIT III
Projections of solids: Prism, Pyramid, Cylinder, Cone - axis inclined to one plane and inclined to
both the planes.
UNIT IV
Isometric projections of lines, planes and simple solids.
UNIT V
Conversion of orthographic views into isometric views and vice-versa.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering Drawing By N.D.Bhatt.
2 Engineering Graphics By K.L. Narayana & P.Kannayya.
REFERENCES
1. Engineering Drawing and Graphics: Venugopal/ New age
2. Engineering Drawing: Johle / TMH
36
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech (Common to all branches) L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS02) ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
The English Language Communication Skills Lab aims to provide practice in all the four skills of
LSRW, with a special emphasis on listening and speaking skills.
Course Objectives:
• Provide ample practice in LSRW skills and train the students in oral presentations,
public speaking, role play and situational dialogue.
• Provide practice in word usage, grammatical construction, structural patterns, and
improve comprehension abilities in the students.
• Train students to use neutral pronunciation through phonetic sounds, symbols, stress
and intonation.
• Enable students to transfer information from verbal to graphic representation and vice
versa.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
• Comprehend spoken and written discourse.
• Speak fluently with neutral pronunciation and exhibit interpersonal skills.
• Write accurately, coherently and lucidly making appropriate use of words depending on
context and present data clearly.
• Introduce oneself to people and be able to speak extempore.
UNIT I
Computer Aided Language Lab:
• Grammar : Nouns and Pronouns; Articles; The Present Tense
• Vocabulary: Lesson 1
• Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: Introduction of Self and others
UNIT II
Computer Aided Language Lab:
1. Grammar: Concord; Adjectives; The Past Tense
2. Vocabulary: Lesson 2
3. Listening Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Seeking and Giving Information, Giving and Taking Instructions
UNIT III
Computer Aided Language Lab:
Grammar --- Adverbs, Conjunctions, Prepositions; The Future Tense
• Vocabulary: Lesson 3
• Telephoning Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Role Play/ Situational Dialogues
UNIT IV
Computer Aided Language Lab:
1. Grammar ---- Active and Passive Voice
2.Vocabulary: Lesson 4
3. Listening Comprehension
37
Communication Skills Lab: i) JAM/ Short Talk ii) Information Transfer a) Interpretation of
Graph
UNIT V
Computer Aided Language Lab:
1. Introduction to Technical Writing
A. Definition of a Technical Term
B. Description of a Mechanism
C. Description of a Technical Process
2. Vocabulary: Lesson 5
Communication Skills Lab : Presentation Skills: Oral Presentation
Computer Aided Language Lab Requirements:
The English Language Lab shall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Lab for 30 students with 30 systems, one master
console, LAN facility and English language software for self- study by
learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Lab with conference tables and movable chairs for 30
students and audio-visual aids with a P.A System, a T. V., a digital stereo –audio &
video system and a camcorder
• System Requirement (Hardware component):
Computer network with Lan with 30 multimedia systems with the following
specifications:
• P – IV Processor
• Speed – 2.8 GHZ
• RAM – 512 MB Minimum
• Hard Disk – 80 GB
• Headphones of High quality
iv) Suggested Resources:
Software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above may be procured and
used. Additionally, the abundantly available online resources may also be used.
List of suggested software:
• Tense Busters (5 Levels)
• Walden Educare
• Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
• DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill
Practice.
• Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
• TOEFL & GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO & BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE
by CLIFFS)
38
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/ D C
0 3 2
(5CS51) COMPUTER PROGRAMMING LABORATORY
(Common to all Branches)
Pre-requisites
• Basic computer Knowledge
Course Objectives
• Gain a working knowledge of C programming to write modular, efficient and readable C
programs by Identifying the structural elements and layout of C source code.
• Declare and manipulate single and multi-dimensional arrays of the C data types and
derived data types like structures, unions.
• Use functions from the portable C library and to describe the techniques for creating
program modules using functions and recursive functions.
• Manipulate character strings in C programs. Utilize pointers to efficiently solve problems
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
Upon completion of the course, the students are expected to
• Apply and practice logical ability to solve the problems using C
• Understand C programming development environment.
• Analyzing the complexity of problems , modularize the problems into small modules and
convert them into programs
• Document and present the algorithms flow charts and programs .
Week 1
a. Basic Linux commands
b. Simple C programs -to implement basic arithmetic operations – sum, average, product,
smallest, largest of the numbers, difference, quotient and remainder of given numbers etc.
Week 2
Programs on if, else-if, nested if, else if ladder - largest and smallest of given numbers, to find the
grade of a student based on marks, roots of a quadratic equation etc.
Week 3
a. Programs on switch-case – to check the type of a given character, to find the grade of a
student etc.
b. Programs on while and do-while- to find factorial, Fibonacci series, GCD, sin(x), cos(x)
series , to check whether a given number is an Armstrong, Palindrome, Perfect, number
conversion, and Prime number etc.
Week 4
Programs on for loop- sum of n natural numbers, factorial, sin(x), to generate Pascal’s triangle
etc.
39
Week 5
a. Programs on nested loops – check for Fibonacci prime, Pyramids of numbers,
generation of prime numbers in the given range, multiplication table etc.
b. programs using break, go to, continue.
Week 6
a. Programs on 1-D array-finding Minimum and maximum element ,Sorting and Searching
etc.
b. Programs on 2-D array – Sum, product and Multiplication of two Matrices etc.
Week 7
a. Programs on Functions-Implementation of user defined functions categories, passing of
arrays to functions etc.
b. Programs on recursion - factorial of a given integer, GCD of two given integers etc.
Week 8
a. Programs on String handling functions-Copying, reverse, substring, concatenation.
b. Programs on structure and unions.
Week 9
Midterm exam
Week 10
Programs using pointers- pointer basic operations
Week 11
Programs on pointers towards structures,
Week 12
Programs on pointers to arrays
Week 13
Programs on pointers to strings
Week 14
Programs on pointers to functions
Week 15
Programs on preprocessor directives
Week 16
Internal Lab Exam
TEXT BOOKS:
1. C programming A Problem-Solving Approach by Behrouz A. Forouzan, E.V.Prasad,
Richard. Gilberg
2. How To Program:C, Dietel & Dietel, Seventh Edition,PHI
REFERENCES:
1. The C Programming Language by Brian W. Kernighan, Dennis M. Ritchie.
2. Absolute beginner's guide to C, Greg M. Perry, Edition 2,Publisher: Sams Pub.,1994.
3. Computer Programming and Data Structures by E Balagurusamy,Tata McGraw Hill.
4. Let Us C Yashavantkanetkar BPB
40
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5ME53) IT AND ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
(Common to EEE, ECE, CSE, EIE & IT)
Course Prerequisites: Basic knowledge about different Trades, computer hardware,
Operating System, different trades in mechanical engineering.
Course Objectives:
• To study/demonstrate the concepts of computer w.r.t. it’s hardware.
• To install the operating system and perform various tasks
• To conduct the experiments related to production engineering technology.
• To demonstrate the usage of power tools, CNC lathe and machine shop for different
exercises
Course Outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Identify, assemble and dissemble the given configuration of a computer.
• Install the operating system in the given configuration of a computer and execute
commands for LINUX Operating System
• To develop components using the techniques of carpentry, tin smithy, forging, etc.
listed in trades for exercises.
• To work out the given models in machine shop and CNC lathe.
IT WORKSHOP
1. Computer Hardware: Identification of Peripherals
2. Study of UPS and SMPS
3. Assembling and disassembling of a PC
4. Simple diagnostic exercises – Related to hardware
5. Installation of Windows Operating System
6. Installation of Linux Operating System
7. Linux Basic Commands
8. Simple diagnostic exercises –Related to Operating System
TEXTBOOKS:
1. IT Essentials PC Hardware and Software Companion Guide Third Edition by Davis
Anfinson and Ken Quamme CISC Press, Pearson Education.
2. PC Hardware and A+ Handbook – Kate J. Chase PHI (Microsoft)
41
ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
TRADES FOR EXCERCISES
At least two exercises from each trade:
1. Carpentry
2. Tin-Smithy
3. Fitting
4. Welding
5. Electrical Wiring
TRADES FOR DEMONSTRATION AND EXPOSURE:
1. Power tools in construction, wood working, electrical engineering and mechanical
engineering.
2. Machine shop.
3. CNC Lathe
4. 3D Printing
TEXT BOOKS
1. Workshop Manual by P.Kannaiah and K.L.Narayana; Publisher: Scitech.
42
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS12) ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS AND LAPLACE TRANSFORMS
(Common to all branches)
Course prerequisites
• Differentiation and Integration
Course Objectives
• Understand the methods of solving first order differential equations and learn about its
applications to basic engineering problems.
• Understand the methods of solving higher order differential equations and learn about
its applications to basic engineering problems.
• Understand the method of series solutions of second order ordinary differential
equations.
• Apply the convolution theorem to evaluate Laplace Transform of the functions.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Solve the problems in first order differential equations.
• Solve the problems in second order differential equations.
• Obtain the series solutions of second order ordinary differential equations.
• Learn Laplace Transform as a tool.
UNIT I
Ordinary Differential Equations of First Order And Their Applications
Differential equations of first order and first degree - Exact differential equation , Linear and
Bernoulli differential equation , Applications of differential equations of first order and first degree
- Newton’s law of cooling, Law of natural growth and decay, Orthogonal trajectories and basic
circuits(L-R Circuits, R-C Circuits).
UNIT II
Differential Equations of Higher Order and Their Applications:
Differential equations of higher order - homogeneous and non-homogenous type, differential
equations of second order and higher order with constant coefficients with right hand side term of
ax
the type e ,sin (ax), cos (ax), polynomials in x, e
43
a x
V(x), x V(x) and method of variation of
parameters, applications to spring mass system ,Simple harmonic motion and L-C-R Circuits.
UNIT III
Differential Equations with Variable Coefficients
Euler-Cauchy’s 2nd order differential equations, Series solutions of second order Ordinary
Differential Equations, Regular point, Regular singular point, Frobineous Method.
UNIT IV
Laplace Transforms
Existence condition, Laplace transform of Elementary functions, Properties of Laplace transforms,
Laplace transform of special functions (Unit step function, Dirac delta function and Periodic
function).
UNIT V
Inverse Laplace Transforms
Inverse Laplace transform of functions using partial fractions, Convolution theorem (statement
only). Solving linear differential equations and Integro-differential eqations using Laplace
transform.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – B. S. Grewal,Khanna publishers.
2. A First Course in Differential Equations by Dennis G. Zill; Publisher: Brooks Co publishers.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa Publications.
REFERENCES
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher: John Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher: Cengage
Learning
44
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS13) COMPUTATIONAL METHODS
(Common to all branches)
Course prerequisites
• Elementary transformations of matrices, differentiation and integration.
Course objectives:
• Understand the numerical methods for non linear systems, evaluating definite integrals and
solving Ordinary Differential Equations.
• Understand various methods of interpolation and application.
• Understand the Echolen form and Normal form of a matrix and its applications in solving
linear system of equations.
• Solving system of linear equations using Jacobi and Gauss-Seidal methods.
Course outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply the numerical methods to find a root of algebraic and transcendental equations.
• Apply the numerical methods to find the solutions of ordinary differential equations.
• Find the rank using Echelon form, Normal form and compute eigen values.
• Solve linear equations using Jacobi method and Gauss-Seidal method
UNIT I
Solutions of non-linear systems
Introduction; Mathematical preliminaries; Solution of algebraic and transcendental equations –
bisection method, the method of false position, Fixed point iterative method , Newton - Raphson
method, and their order of convergence.
UNIT II
Interpolation
Introduction; Errors in polynomial interpolation; Finite differences; Forward differences; Backward
differences; Central differences; Symbolic relations and separation of symbols; Differences of a
polynomial; Newton’s interpolation formulae; Central difference interpolation formulae; Gauss’s
central difference formulae and Lagrange’s interpolation formulae.
UNIT III
Numerical differentiation and Integration
Numerical differentiation based on interpolation ,Numerical integration: Trapezoidal rule,
Simpson’s 1/3 rule, and Simpson’s 3/8 rule, Gaussian quadrature 2 & 3 point formulae.
Numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations:
Solution of initial value problems by Taylor’s series - Picard’s method of successive
approximations, Euler’s method, and Runge - Kutta methods.
45
UNIT IV
Matrices
Elementary Transformations, Rank of matrix, Echelon and Normal forms, Consistency of linear
simultaneous equations, Eigen values, eigen vectors and their properties, Caley – Hamilton
theorem (without proof), Quadratic forms - reduction of quadratic form to canonical form by
linear(congruent) and orthogonal transformations.
UNIT V
Complex Matrices and Iterative Methods for Real Systems:
Unitary, Hermitian and skew – Hermitian matrices. Iterative methods for solving a system of linear
equations (Jacobi method, Gauss-Seidal algorithm) and Power method to find largest and
smallest eigen values.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Numerical Methods in Engineering and Science–B.S. Grewal, 3rdedition Publisher:
Khanna Publishers
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa
Publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher: John
Wiley and Sons.
2. Elementary Numerical Analysis – an algorithmic approach -Samuel D. Conte and Carl
De Boor (2006); 3rd edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill
(Beyond Syllabus: Types of errors and analysis)
46
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS23) ADVANCED ENGINEERING PHYSICS
(Common to EEE,ECE & EIE)
Course Objectives
• To learn basic structures and classifications of solids.
• To study nature of dielectric, magnetic and conducting properties of materials.
• To visualize different kinds of materials in engineering and technology.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Identify different types of crystals, their defects and importance of X-ray studies in crystals.
• Recognize materials’ magnetic, dielectric and conducting behavior.
• Show case some applications of crystals and different kinds of materials in engineering
UNIT I
Semiconductor Physics
Fermi level in Intrinsic and Extrinsic semiconductors, Intrinsic semiconductor and carrier
concentration, Extrinsic semiconductor and carrier concentration, Equation of continuity, Direct
and indirect band gap semiconductors, Hall Effect, Formation of p-n junction, Open circuit p-n
junction, Energy diagram of diode, I/V characteristics of p-n junction diode, Diode equation.
UNIT - II
Crystal structures
Space lattice, Unit cell, Lattice parameter, Crystal systems, Bravais lattice, Atomic radius, Co-
ordination number, Structures and Packing fractions of Simple Cubic, Body Centered Cubic, Face
Centered Cubic, Hexagonal closed packed & diamond Cubic Crystals.
UNIT III
Directions, planes and X-RD
Miller Indices for Crystal planes and directions, Inter planar spacing of orthogonal crystal systems,
Diffraction of X-rays by crystal planes and Bragg’s law, Bragg’s Diffractometer, Applications of X-
ray diffraction.
Defects in solids
Imperfections in crystals, Point defects (Vacancies, Interstitial and Impurities), Schottky and
Frenkel defects (with mathematical treatment), Line imperfections, Edge and Screw dislocation,
Burger vector, Surface defects and volume defects (Qualitative Treatment).
47
UNIT IV
Magnetic Properties of Materials
Permeability, Field intensity, magnetic field induction, Magnetization and Magnetic susceptibility,
Origin of magnetic moment, Bohr magneton, Classification of magnetic materials (Dia, Para and
Ferro), Domain theory of ferromagnetism - Necessity, Formation, Hysteresis curve, Soft and Hard
magnetic materials, Ferrites and their applications.
UNIT V
Dielectric properties
Electric dipole, Dipole moment, Dielectric constant, Electronic, Ionic and Orientation Polarization
– Molor Polarization and Experimental determination of Molor Polarization, Calculation of
Polarizibilities, Internal fields – Claussius – Mossotti equation, Piezo and Ferro electricity
Superconductors
Experimental survey and superconductivity phenomenon, Meissner effect, Critical fields and
Persistent currents, Type I and Type II superconductors, London equations, Flux quantization,
BCS Theory, Applications of Superconductors.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel , Publishers: John Wiley & Sons
2. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd
REFERENCES
1. Solid State Physics by A.J.Dekker; Macmillan Publishers India Ltd.
2. Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
3. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
4. Engineering Physics by M.R.Srinivasan, New Age Publishers
5. Solid State Physics by M.A. Wahab.
48
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS32) ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
(Common to all branches)
Pre-requisites
• Basic knowledge of mathematics and chemistry
.
Course Objectives
• Understanding the concept of generating electricity by batteries.
• Conceptual knowledge of corrosion science.
• Acquiring the knowledge of preparation, properties and usage of polymers.
• Applying the concept of hardness to analyze various boiler troubles in steam
• generation.
• Familiarize the features of carbon nanotubes, composites and self- healing materials.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Interpret the chemical applications of the various types of batteries used in the present
day world.
• Acquire the knowledge of corrosion for protecting structures and safeguarding the
economy.
• Evaluate the suitability of various polymers for different applications.
• Analyze and compare the different softening techniques of water.
• Summarize the applications of carbon nanotubes, composites and self- healing materials.
UNIT I
Batteries and Fuel cells
Electrochemistry-definition, types of cells- differences between electrolytic and electrochemical
cells, conditions of reversibility, principle of batteries, Primary cells-(Dry cell, Mercury battery) and
secondary cells -lead-acid cell; Ni-Cd cell; lithium- ion cells (intercalated); Fuel cells : methanol –
oxygen fuel cell, advantages of fuel cells; Solar cells - principle and applications.
UNIT II
Corrosion and its control
Introduction; Causes and effects of corrosion; Theories of corrosion – chemical and
electrochemical corrosion (reactions); Types of corrosion ( Differential aeration corrosion: pitting,
crevice and waterline corrosion, Differential metal corrosion: galvanic corrosion) ; Factors
affecting corrosion – nature of metal (position of metal in galvanic series-differences between
electrochemical & galvanic series; passivity; purity of metal; nature of oxide film; nature of
corrosion product), and nature of environment (effect of temperature; effect of pH; humidity;
formation of oxygen concentration cells).
Corrosion control methods – cathodic protection-sacrificial anode and impressed current cathodic
protection.
49
Surface coatings –differences between galvanizing and tinning; cladding; electroplating (copper
plating), Paints - constituents and functions.
UNIT III
Polymers
Plastics - Thermoplastic resins, and Thermosetting resins, fabrication of plastics –compression,
injection. Preparation, properties, and engineering applications of PE, PVC, Teflon, Bakelite,
Nylon and Kevlar.
Rubber
Processing and vulcanization, preparation, properties, and engineering applications of Buna-S;
Butyl rubber and Thiokol rubber.
UNIT IV
Water and its Treatment
Introduction; Hardness - causes, expression of hardness, units, types of hardness, numerical
problems. Estimation of temporary & permanent hardness of water by EDTA method (no
numerical problems). Boiler troubles - scale & sludge formation, caustic embrittlement, boiler
corrosion, priming & foaming. Softening of water by zeolite and ion exchange process(No
numerical problems), Desalination processes - reverse osmosis.
UNIT V
Smart materials
Nanomaterials -Introduction; preparation and applications of nanomaterials with special reference
to carbon nanotubes.
Composites-Need for composites, classification based on reinforcing material (Fiber reinforced
composites –glass, carbon and aramid), applications of composites.
Self-healing materials- Definition, features, principle of self-healing materials and their
applications.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna Cherukuri; Publisher:
VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain & Monica Jain, Publisher: Dhanpatrai Publishing
Company.
REFERENCES
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S.Dhara & Mukkanti; Publisher:S.Chand & Co.
2. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna; McGraw Hill Edu.Pvt.Ltd.
3. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, Sulochana Nagarajan;
Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
4. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi, Cengage Learning
Publications.
50
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5EE01) CIRCUIT THEORY
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites
• Mathematics, Physics
Course Objectives
• To understand the basic concepts of Circuit Analysis.
• To analyze single phase ac circuits and magnetic circuits.
• To apply Network Theorems for Circuit Analysis.
• To understand the graph theory and its properties of circuit
Course Outcomes
After the completion of the course students is able to
• Apply basic network reduction techniques for analysis of electrical circuits.
• Analyze ac circuits along with resonance and locus diagrams.
• Appreciate the application of network theorems
• Analyze graph theory and topology solutions.
UNIT I
Introduction to Electrical Circuits
Circuit Concept – R-L-C parameters – Voltage and Current sources – Independent and
dependent sources-Source transformation – Voltage – Current relationship for passive elements
(for different input signals-square, ramp, saw tooth, triangular). Kirchhoff’s laws – network
reduction techniques – series, parallel, series parallel, star-to-delta or delta-to-star transformation.
Nodal analysis, Mesh analysis, Super Node and Super Mesh analysis of Networks with
Independent and Dependent voltage and current sources.
UNIT II
Magnetic Circuits
Magnetic Circuits – Faraday’s laws of electromagnetic induction – concept of self and mutual
inductance – dot convention – coefficient of coupling – composite magnetic circuit - Analysis of
series and parallel magnetic circuits
UNIT III
Single Phase A.C Circuits
R.M.S and Average values and form factor for different periodic wave forms, Steady state
analysis of R, L and C (in series, parallel and series parallel combinations) with sinusoidal
excitation – Concept of Reactance, Impedance, Susceptance and Admittance – Phase and
51
Phase difference – concept of power factor, Real and Reactive powers – J-notation, Complex and
Polar forms of representation, Complex power.
UNIT IV
Locus Diagrams and Resonance
Locus diagrams – series R-L, R-C, R-L-C and parallel combination with variation of various
parameters – Resonance – series, parallel circuits, concept of band width and Q factor.
UNIT V
Network Topology and Network Theorems
Definitions – Graph – Tree, Basic cutset and Basic Tieset matrices for planar networks - Duality
and Dual networks. Superposition, Reciprocity, Thevenin’s, Norton’s, Maximum Power Transfer,
Tellegen’s, Millman’s and Compensation theorems for d.c. and a.c. excitations.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Engineering circuit analysis by William Hayt and Jack E. Kemmerly, Mc Graw Hill
Company, 6th Edition.
2. Network Analysis by A. Sudhakar, Shyammohan Palli, Mc Graw Hill Company,
REFERENCES
1. Circuit Theory by A. Chakrabarti, Dhanipat Rai and Co., 6th Edition.
2. Network Analysis by M. E Van valkenburg, PHI.
3. Linear circuit analysis (time domain phasor, and Laplace transform approaches) by
Raymond A.Decarlo and PEN-MIN-LIN, Oxford University Press. 2nd Edition, 2004.
4. Network Theory by N.C. Jagan and C.Lakshminarayana, B.S Publications.
5. Electrical Circuit theory by K. Rajeswaran, Pearson Education 2004.
6. Basic Circuit analysis by D.R, Cunningham and J.A Stuller, Jaico Publications.
52
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5IT02) DATA STRUCTURES
(Common to EEE,ECE,CSE, EIE & IT)
Prerequisites
• C Programming language
Course Objectives
• To teach efficient storage mechanisms of data for an easy access.
• To design and implementation of various basic and advanced data structures.
• To introduce various techniques for representation of the data in the real world.
• To develop application using data structures and to improve the logical ability.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Explore and analyze the working of linear data structures like list, stack and variations of
queue in both static and dynamic implementation.
• Relate and demonstrate the application of linear data structures.
• Illustrate and implement basic non linear data structures like trees, graphs and their
operations.
• Identify and implement basic and advanced comparison based sorting and searching
techniques.
UNIT I
File Management
File I/O – Basic concepts, text files and binary files, file input / output operations, file status
functions (error handling), C programming examples, command-line arguments.
Data Structures – Introduction to data structures, abstract data types, dynamic memory allocation.
UNIT II
Linear list – Singly linked list implementation, insertion, deletion and searching operations on
linear list, circular linked list implementation, double linked list implementation, insertion, deletion
and searching operations. Applications of linked lists.
UNIT III
Stacks-Operations, array and linked representations of stacks, stack applications-infix to postfix
conversion, postfix expression evaluation, recursion implementation.
Queues-operations, array and linked representations. circular queue operations, dequeues,
applications of queue.
UNIT IV
Trees – Definitions, binary tree representation, binary search tree, binary tree traversals.
Graphs – Definitions, graph representations, graph traversals.
53
UNIT V
Searching and Sorting – Big O Notation, Sorting- selection sort, bubble sort, insertion sort, quick
sort, merge sort, Searching-linear and binary search methods.
TEXT BOOKS
1. C Programming& Data Structures, B.A.Forouzan and R.F. Gilberg, Third Edition,
Cengage Learning.
2. Data Structures Using C (Paperback) by Aaron M. Tenenbaum
REFERENCES
1. C& Data structures – P. Padmanabham, Third Edition, B.S. Publications.
2. Data Structures using C – A.M.Tanenbaum, Y.Langsam, and M.J. Augenstein, Pearson
Education
3. C Programming & Data Structures, E. Balagurusamy, TMH.
4. C Programming & Data Structures, P. Dey, M Ghosh R Thereja, Oxford University Press
5. C& Data structures – E V Prasad and N B Venkateswarlu, S. Chand&Co.
54
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE-I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS25) ENGINEERING PHYSICS AND ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
ENGINEERING PHYSICS LAB LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
• To practically learn interaction of light with matter through physical phenomena like
interference, diffraction and dispersion.
• To understand the periodic motion and formation of standing waves and to know the
characteristics of the capacitors and resistors.
• To compare the experimental results with the class room learning.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Demonstrate the optical phenomena with formation of Newton Rings, and formation of
spectra with a grating and a prism.
• Illustrate periodic motion by measuring rigidity modulus of a material and formation of
standing waves by Melde’s apparatus and also discharging of a capacitor.
• Correlate the experimental results with the class room learning.
Any Eight Experiments from the following:
1. Dispersive Power of the material of a Prism using Spectrometer
2. Diffraction Grating (both with Laser and non laser source)
3. Single Slit with laser light
4. Newton Rings
5. Finding thickness of a thin wire or sheet by forming a wedge shaped film
6. Energy gap of a semiconductor material
7. To determine the rigidity modulus of material of a wire
8. Melde’s experiment
9. Sonometer Experiment
10. AC frequency by sonometer method
11. Numerical Aperture and Acceptance angle of an optical fiber cable
12. Attenuation and Bending losses in optical fiber
13. Stewart Gee’s experiment
14. Characteristics of LED/Laser Diode.
15. Photo cell/ Solar Cell
16. C circuit
REFERENCES:
1. Essential Practical Lab Manual in Physics: by Dr.P.Raghavendra Rao,P.Pavankumar
and B.Ashok (inhouse document)
2. Engineering Physics Practicals by B.Srinivasa Rao, V.K.V.Krishna and
K.S.Rudramamba, University Science Press, New Delhi
55
ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
Pre-requisites: Basic knowledge of Volumetric Analysis and Mathematics.
Course Objectives:
• Familiarize the preparation of solutions and operation of instruments
• Conduct of experiment, collection and analyzing the data
• Summarizing the data and find the applicability of the experiment to common society
Course Outcomes:
• Understanding the preparation of standard solutions and handling of instruments
• Knowledge of experimentation and recording the data
• Interpretation of results to real world scenario
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
1. Titrimetry: Estimation of hardness of water by EDTA method.
2. Conductometry: Conductometric titration of acid vs base.
3. Colorimetry: Estimation of copper by colorimetric method.
4. pH metry: Determination of pH of sample solutions.
5. Determination of viscosity of sample oil by Redwood Viscometer.
6. Preparations: Soap and Nanoparticles.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by S.K.Bhasin and Sudha Rani; Publisher:
Dhanpat Rai.
2. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari and Jyotsna
Cherukuri; Publisher: VGS Book Links
56
3. VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5IT52) DATA STRUCTURES LABORATORY
(Common to EEE, ECE, CSE, EIE & IT)
Pre-requisites
• C Programming language
Course Objectives
• To develop skills to design and analyze simple linear data structures
• To develop skills to design and analyze simple nonlinear data structures
• To strengthen the ability to identify and apply the suitable data structure for the given
real world problem
• To gain knowledge in practical applications of data structures
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Iimplement storage mechanism and related programs
• design and analyze the time and space efficiency of the data structure
• identity the appropriate data structure for given problem
• Have practical knowledge on the application of data structures
Week 1: 1. Programs on files-Implementation of file handling functions, file error
handling.
2. Programs on command line arguments.
Week 2:
3. Programs on dynamic memory allocation.
4. Write a program to perform creates, insert, delete and search operations in
Single Linked List.
Week 3: 5. Write a program to perform create, insert , delete and search operations
in Circular Linked List
Week 4: 6. W
Write a program to perform create, insert and deletion operations in Double
Linked List
Week 5: 7. Write a program to implement stack using Arrays
8. Write a program to implement stack using Linked List
Week 6: 9. Write a program to convert infix expression to postfix expression using
stack
10. Write a program to evaluate postfix expression
Week 7: 11. Programs using recursion
12. Write a program to convert infix expression to prefix expression using stack
Week 8: 13. Write a program to implement Linear queue using Array
14. Write a program to implement Linear queue using Linked List
57
Week 9: 15. Write a program to implement insertions and deletions in a Circular
Queue.
16. Write a program to implement insertions and deletions in a Dequeue.
Week 10: Midterm Exam
Week 11: 17. Write a program to implement Linear search, Binary search
18. Write a program to implement Bubble sort, Selection sort
Week 12: 19. Write a program to implement Insertion sort
20. Write a program to implement Merge sort
Week 13: 21. Write a program to implement Quick sort.
Week 14: 22. Implementation of a binary tree representation using Arrays
23. Write a program to implement tree traversals.
Week 15: 24. Implementation of a Graph representation using Adjacency Matrix
25. Write a program to implement graph traversals.
Week 16: Final Internal Lab Exam
TEXT BOOKS
1. C Programming & Data Structures, B.A.Forouzan and R.F. Gilberg, Third Edition, Cengage
Learning.
2. Data Structures Using C (Paperback) by Aaron M. Tenenbaum
REFERENCES
1. C& Data structures – P. Padmanabham, Third Edition, B.S. Publications.
2. Data Structures using C – A.M.Tanenbaum, Y.Langsam, and M.J. Augenstein, Pearson
Education / PHI
3. C Programming & Data Structures, E. Balagurusamy, TMH.
4. C Programming & Data Structures, P. Dey, M Ghosh R Thereja, Oxford University Press
5. C& Data structures – E V Prasad and N B Venkateswarlu, S. Chand&Co.
58
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS15) FOURIER AND COMPLEX ANALYSIS
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites
• Integral and Differential calculus
Course objectives
• Compute Fourier coefficients.
• Distinguish between Cauchy’s integral theorem and Cauchy’s integral formula.
• Apply Taylor’s Series and Laurent series to expand complex functions.
• Understand the idea of a conformal mapping.
Course outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Solve problems using Fourier series.
• Apply Cauchy-Riemann equations to study analyticity of functions.
• Evaluate contour integrals using Residue theorem.
• Map the image of the given curve under the given transformation.
UNIT I
Fourier Series and Fourier Transforms:
Fourier Series : Fourier Series of periodic functions, Euler’s formulae, Fourier series of even and
odd functions having arbitrary periods, half range Fourier series.
Fourier Transforms: Fourier transform, Sine and Cosine transforms, properties and its
applications.
COMPLEX ANALYSIS
UNIT II
Functions of a complex variable:
Functions of a complex variable, Continuity, Differentiability, Analyticity, Properties, Cauchy-
Riemann equations in Cartesian and polar coordinates. Harmonic and Conjugate Harmonic
functions, Milne – Thompson method.
UNIT III
Elementary functions and Integration of complex function:
Exponential, trigonometric, hyperbolic functions and their properties.
zc
and Log(z), principal
value. Line integral, evaluation along a path and by indefinite integration. Cauchy’s integral
theorem ,Cauchy’s integral formula.
UNIT IV
Power series and Residues:
Radius of convergence , Expansion in Taylor’s series and Laurent series. Singular point, Isolated
singular point, pole of order m , essential singularity. Residues – Evaluation of residue, Residue
theorem, Evaluation of real integrals .
59
UNIT V
Conformal mapping:
Transformation of
ez
, log(z), z2 , zn (n positive integer), Sin z, cos z, z + a/z. Basic transformations
: Translation, rotation, inversion. Bilinear transformation - fixed point, cross ratio, properties,
invariance of circles, determination of bilinear transformation mapping three given points to three
assigned points.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – B. S. Grewal
2. Complex Variables & Its Applications- Churchill and Brown, (1996), International Edition,
McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES
1. Advance Engineering Mathematics - Peter O’Neil,(2000),5th Edition, Cengage Learning
2. Schaum’s Outline Of Complex Variables - Murray.R.Spiegel,(2011), 2nd Edition, Tata McGraw
Hill.
60
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5EC01) ELECTRONIC DEVICES AND CIRCUITS
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites
• Semiconductor physics
Course Objectives
• To learn principle of operation, construction and characteristics of various electronic
devices.
• To study operation and characteristics of Rectifiers with filters.
• To understand the analysis of small signal low frequency amplifiers.
• To provide the concepts involved in design of electronic Circuits.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the operation and characteristics of various electronic devices.
• Develop few applications using electronic devices.
• Analyze small signal model for BJT and FET amplifiers.
UNIT I
p-n Junction Diode and Applications
Review of Semi-Conductor Materials, Theory of p-n Junction, p-n Junction as a Diode, Diode
Equation, Volt-Ampere Characteristics, Temperature dependence of V-I characteristics, Ideal and
Practical Diode Equivalent Circuits, Static and Dynamic Resistance levels , Transition and
Diffusion Capacitances.
The p-n diode as a rectifier, Half wave Rectifier, Full wave rectifier, Bridge Rectifier, Harmonic
components in a Rectifier Circuit, Inductor filters, Capacitor filters, L- Section Filters, - section
filters, Comparison of Regulation Characteristics of different Filters, Breakdown Mechanisms in
Semi-Conductor Diodes, Zener Diode Characteristics, Shunt Voltage Regulation using Zener
Diode.
UNIT II
Transistors, Biasing and Stabilization
The Bipolar Junction Transistor(BJT), Transistor Current Components, Transistor Construction,
BJT Operation, Common Base, Common Emitter and Common Collector Configurations, Limits of
Operation, Transistor as an Amplifier, BJT Specifications, Principle of series voltage regulators.
The DC and AC Load lines, Quiescent operating Point, Need for Biasing, Fixed Bias, Collector
Feedback Bias, Emitter Feedback Bias, Collector-Emitter Feedback Bias, Voltage Divider Bias,
Bias Stability, Stabilization Factors, Stabilization against variations in V β and I .
BE, 1 CO
61
BiasCompensation using Diodes, Thermistors and Sensistors, Thermal Runway, Thermal
Stability.
UNIT III
Small signal low frequency BJT Amplifiers
Small signal low frequency transistor amplifier circuits: h-parameter representation of a transistor,
Analysis of single stage transistor amplifiers CE, CC, CB configurations using h-parameters:
voltage gain, current gain, Input impedance and Output impedance. Comparison of CB, CE, CC
configurations in terms of A, R, A , R .
I i V O
UNIT IV
FET, Biasing and Amplifiers
Construction and operation of Junction Field Effect Transistor (JFET), Volt-Ampere characteristics
- Drain and transfer Characteristics, FET as Voltage Variable Resistor, Biasing FET, The JFET
Small Signal Model, FET Common Source Amplifier, Common Drain Amplifier, Construction and
operation of MOSFET , MOSFET Characteristics in Enhancement and Depletion modes.
Comparison of BJT and FET amplifiers.
UNIT V
Special Purpose Electronic Devices
Principle of Operation and Characteristics of Tunnel Diode (with the help of Energy Band
Diagram), Varactor Diode and schotky barrier diode. Principle of Operation and Characteristics of
UJT, UJT Relaxation Oscillator. Principle of Operation of SCR, Schockley diode Diac and Triac.
Principle of Operation of Semiconductor Photo Diode, PIN Diode, Photo Transistor ,LED and
LCD.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Electronic Devices and Circuits – J.Millman, C.C.Halkias, and Satyabratha Jit, Tata
McGraw Hill, 2nd Edition, 2007.
2. Electronic Devices and Circuits – R.L. Boylestad and Louis Nashelsky, Pearson/Prentice
Hall, 11th Edition, 2006.
REFERENCES
1. Integrated Electronics - J.Millman and Christos.C.Halkias, and Satyabratha, Jit Tata
McGraw Hill, 2ndEdition,2008.
2. Electronic Devices and Circuits – T.F. Bogart Jr., J.S.Beasley and G.Rico, Pearson
Education, 6th Edition,2004.
3. Electronic Devices and Circuits- S. S Salivahanan, N. Sursh Kumar, A. Vallava Raju,2nd
Edition., TMH,2010.
4. Electronic Devices and Circuits – David A Bell, Oxford University Press, 5th edition (2008)
62
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5EC02) PROBABILITY THEORY AND STOCHASTIC PROCESSES
Pre-requisites
• Basics of Mathematical and Probability Concepts
Course Objectives
• To describe and interpret the basic concepts of probability and stochastic processes.
• To Describe and interpret the discrete time and continuous time stochastic processes.
• To learn spectrum of Random process
• To learn noise sources and their characteristics
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply the concepts of probability to experiments that have Random outcomes
• Apply the statistical properties to the random variables and processes.
• Estimate and Analyze noise characteristics in communication systems
UNIT I
Overview of Probability Theory: Definitions, Scope and history, sets, sample space and events,
Axioms of Probability, Discrete, Continuous and Conditional Probabilities, Independence, Total
probability, Bayes’ Rule and Applications.
Random Variables: Definition of Random Variable, classification of Random Variables, Probability
mass function, CDF and PDF of Random Variables and their properties (Single and Multiple
Random variables), Conditional distribution and densities, properties.
Distribution and Density function of sum of two Independent Random variables. Some Special
Random variables: Binomial, Poisson, Uniform, Gaussian, Exponential, Rayleigh, Transformation
of random variables.
UNIT II
Operations on Single and Multiple Random Variables: Mean, Variance, Skew and Moments of
Random Variables- Raw and Central Moments, Joint Moments, Marginal distribution and density
functions. Characteristic Function, Moment Generating Function, Operations on distribution and
density functions of special Random variables, central limit theorem.
UNIT III
Random Processes: Concept and classification of Random Process; Probabilistic structure of a
random process; Concept of Stationary Random Process, Wide Sense Stationary, Time
Averages, Ergodicity, Auto Correlation, Cross Correlation and Covariance of Random Processes.
63
UNIT IV
Spectral Characteristics of Random Process: Power Spectrum-Properties, Relation between PSD
and Autocorrelation function of a Random Process, Cross spectral Density and its relation with
Cross Correlation function.
Random signal Response of Linear Systems: System Response-Convolution, Mean and Mean-
squared value of system Response, autocorrelation Function of Response, Cross-Correlation
Functions of input and output, Spectral Characteristics of System Response; Power Density
Spectrum of Response, Cross Power Density Spectrums of Input and Output.
UNIT V
System Noise: Mathematical Modeling of Various system Noise sources, White Noise and
colored noise, Effective Noise Temperature, Noise Figure, Average Noise Figure of Cascaded
networks.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Probability, Random Variables and Random Signal Principles - Peyton Z Peebles 4th
Edidtion,TMH, 2001.
2. Communication Systems – R.P. Singh, SP Sapre, 2nd Edition,TMH, 2007.
REFERENCES
1. Probability, Random Variables and Random Process – K. Murugeshan, P. Guruswamy,
Anuradha publicatoins.
2. Theory of probability and stochastic Processes – pradip Kumar Gosh University press.
3. Probability and Random processes with application to signal processing – Henry Stark and
John W, Woods, 3rd Edition, PE.
4. Principles of Communication Systems – H.Taub, Donald L. Schiling, Goutham Saha, 3rd
Edition,TMH,2007.
5. Probability, Random Variables and Stochastic Processes- Athanasios Papoulis and S.
Unnikrishnan Pillai,4th Edition, TMH
64
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EI03) SIGNALS AND SYSTEMS
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites
• Basics of mathematical concepts
Course Objectives
• To understand various fundamental characteristics of signals and systems.
• To study the importance of transform domain.
• To analyze and design various systems.
• To study the effects of sampling.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Classify the signals and systems and determine the response of the systems.
• Analyze the spectral characteristics of signals and systems
• Design the continuous-time and discrete-time systems
UNIT I
Representation of Signals
Continuous time and Discrete Time signals, Classification of Signals – Periodic and aperiodic,
even and odd, energy and power signals, deterministic and random signals, complex exponential
and sinusoidal signals. Concepts of Impulse function, Unit step function, Signum function. Various
operations on Signals.
Signal Transmission through Linear Systems
Classification of Continuous time and discrete time Systems, impulse response, Response of a
linear system, Transfer function of a LTI system. Filter characteristics of linear systems. Distortion
less transmission through a system, Signal bandwidth, system bandwidth, Ideal LPF, HPF and
BPF characteristics, Causality and Paley -Wiener criterion for physical realization, relationship
between bandwidth and rise time.
UNIT II
Signal Analysis
Analogy between vectors and signals, Orthogonal signal space, Signal approximation using
orthogonal functions, Closed or complete set of orthogonal functions
Fourier Series Representation of Periodic Signals
Representation of Fourier series, Continuous time periodic signals, Dirichlet’s conditions,
Trigonometric Fourier series and Exponential Fourier series, Complex Fourier spectrum, Gibb’s
Phenomenon.
.
65
UNIT III
Fourier Transforms
Deriving Fourier transform from Fourier series, Fourier transform of arbitrary signals, Fourier
transform of standard signals, Fourier transform of periodic signals, properties of Fourier
transforms
Laplace Transforms
Concept of region of convergence (ROC) for Laplace transforms. Properties of ROC. Relation
between Laplace Transforms and Fourier transform of a signal. Introduction to Hilbert Transform.
UNIT IV
Convolution and Correlation of Signals
Concept of convolution in time domain and frequency domain, Graphical representation of
convolution, Properties of Convolution, Concepts of correlation, properties of correlation. Relation
between convolution and correlation, Detection of periodic signals in the presence of noise by
correlation.
Sampling Theorem
Representation of continuous time signals by its samples - Sampling theorem – Reconstruction of
a Signal from its samples, aliasing – discrete time processing of continuous time signals,
sampling of band pass signals.
UNIT V
Z –Transforms
Basic principles of z-transform, region of convergence, properties of ROC, Properties of z-
transform , Poles and Zeros. Inverse z-transform using Contour integration, Residue Theorem,
Convolution Method and Partial fraction expansion.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Signals, Systems and Communications - B.P. Lathi, BS Publications, 2009.
2. Signals and Systems – Alan V.Oppenheim, Alan S.Willsky and S.Hamid Nawab,2nd
Edition, PHI.
REFERENCES
1. Signals and Systems- A.Anand Kumar, 2nd Edition, PHI,2012
2. Signals and Systems -Simon Haykin and Barry Van Veen, 2nd Edition, John Wiley.
3. Signals and Systems- Cengage Learning, Narayana Iyer, 2011.
4. Signals, Systems and Transforms –C.L.Philips,J.M Parr and Eve A. Riskin,3rd Edition,
Pearson, 2004 .
5. Signals and Systems Schaum’s Outlines - HWEI P. HSU , Tata Mc Graw Hill, 2004.
66
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EE21) PRINCIPLES OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites
• Circuit Theory, Mathematics
Course Objectives
• To analyze transient response of circuits with dc excitation
• To understand two port network parameters, filters and attenuators
• To know about performance of DC machines
• To understand the operation of transformers and AC machines
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Analyze transient response of circuits
• Evaluate two port parameters and design simple filters
• Appreciate the working of DC machines
• Understand the operation of transformers and AC machines.
UNIT I
Transient Analysis (First and Second Order Circuits) : Transient Response of RL, RC and
RLC Circuits for DC excitations, Initial Conditions, Solution using Differential Equations approach
and Laplace Transform Method.
UNIT II
Two Port Networks :Impedance Parameters, Admittance Parameters, Hybrid Parameters,
Transmission (ABCD) Parameters, Conversion of one Parameter to another, Conditions for
Reciprocity and Symmetry, Interconnection of Two Port networks in Series, Parallel and
Cascaded configurations, Image Parameters, Illustrative problems.
UNIT III
Filters and Symmetrical Attenuators : Classification of Filters, Classification of Pass band and
Stop band, Characteristic Impedance in the Pass and Stop Bands,Constant-k and m-derived
filters-Low Pass Filter and High Pass Filters (both qualitative and quantitative treatment); Band
Pass filter and Band Elimination filters (qunatitaive treatment only), Illustrative Problems.
Symmetrical Attenuators – T-Type Attenuator, p-Type Attenuator, Bridged T-type Attenuator,
Lattice Attenuator.
67
UNIT IV
DC Machines
DC Generators: Principles of Operation of DC Generator, construction, EMF equation, Types of
Generators, Magnetization, Internal and external Characteristics of DC Generators.
DC Motors :DC Motors, Types of Dc Motors, Characteristics of Dc Motors, Losses and
Efficiency, Swinburne’s Test, Speed Control of Dc Shunt Motor- Flux and Armature Voltage
control methods.
UNIT V
Transformers and AC Machines
Transformers and Their Performance : Principle of Operation of Single Phase transformer,
Types, Constructional Features, Phasor Diagram on No Load and Load, Equivalent Circuit,
Losses, Efficiency and Regulation of Transformer, OC and SC Tests, Predetermination of
Efficiency and Regulation, Simple Problems.
AC Machines
Three Phase Induction Motor: Principle of operation of three phase induction motors- Slip ring
and Squirrel cage motors –Slip Torque characteristics.
Alternators: Principle of operation –Types - EMF Equation- Predetermination of regulation by
Synchronous Impedance Method- OC and SC tests.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Principles of Electrical Engineering- A.Sudhakar, ShyammohanS.Palli, TMH
publications
2. Introduction to Electrical Engineering – M.S.Naidu and S. Kamakshaiah, TMH
publications.
3. Network analysis and Synthesis- C L Wadhwa, New Age International Publishers.
REFERENCES
1. Networks, Lines, and Fields – John.D.Ryder, PHI publications.
2. Engineering Circuit Analysis – W.H.Hayt and J.E Kemmerly and S.M.Durbin, TMH
publications.
3. Circuit Theory by Chakrabarti, DhanpatRai and Co.
4. Network Analysis – N.C.Jagan and C.LakshmiNarayana, BS publications.
5. Network Analysis – A.Sudhakar, ShyammohanS.Palli, TMH publications.
68
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EC51) ELECTRONIC DEVICES AND CIRCUITS LABORATORY
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites
• Semiconductor physics, Electronic Devices and Circuits Concepts
Course Objectives
• To identify various components and testing of active devices.
• To study and operation of millimeters, function generators ,regulated power supplies
and CRO
• To know the characteristics of various active devices.
• To study frequency response amplifier.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply various devices to real time problems.
• Compute frequency response of various amplifiers.
Part A: (Only for viva-voce Examination)
ELECTRONIC WORKSHOP PRACTICE (in 2 lab sessions):
1. Identification, Specification, testing of R,L,C components (color codes), Potentiometers
(SPDT, DPDT, and DIP), Coils, Gang Condensers, Relays, Bread Board, PCB’s
2 Identification, Specification, testing of Active devices : Diodes, BJT, Low power JFET’s,
MOSFET’s, Power Transistors, LED’s, LCD’s, SCR, UJT.
3 Study and operation of:
• Multimeters (Analog and Digital)
• Function Generator
• Regulated Power Supplies
• CRO
Part B: (For Laboratory Examination – Minimum of 10 experiments)
1. Forward and Reverse Bias V-I characteristics of PN junction Diode.
2. Zener diode V-I characteristics and Zener diode as voltage regulator.
3. Half Wave, and Full wave with and without filters.
4. Characteristics of a BJT under CE configuration and calculation of h-parameters.
5. Characteristics of a BJT under CC configuration and calculation of h-parameters.
6. Characteristics of a BJT under CB configuration and calculation of h-parameters.
7. FET characteristics under CS configuration.
69
8. Frequency response of CE Amplifier.
9. Frequency response of CC Amplifier.
10. Frequency response of CS FET Amplifier.
11. SCR characteristics.
12. UJT characteristics and Relaxation Oscillator.
70
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EC52) BASIC SIMULATION LABORATORY
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites
• Basic concepts of Mathematics and Signal and systems
Course Objectives
• To learn basic Operations on Matrices
• To model generation of various signals
• To simulate operations on signals and systems.
• To simulate various random variables’ generation and processes
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Analyze various types of signals and perform various operations on them.
• Apply the knowledge of signals and sequences for finding response of a system
The experiments are to be software simulated using suitable software.
1. Basic Operations on Matrices
2. Generation of various signals and sequences (Periodic and Aperiodic), such as unit
Impulse step, Square, Saw tooth, Triangular, Sinusoidal, Ramp, Sinc.
3. Operations on signals and sequences such as Addition, Multiplication, Scaling, Shifting,
Folding, Computation of Energy and Average Power.
4. Finding the Even and Odd parts of Signal / Sequence and Real and imaginary parts of
Signal.
5. Convolution between Signals and Sequences.
6. Auto Correlation and Cross Correlation of Signals and Sequences.
7. Verification of Linearity and Time Invariance Properties of a given Continuous / Discrete
System.
8. Computation of Unit sample, Unit step and sinusoidal responses of the given LTI system
and verifying its Physical realiazability and stability properties.
9. Gibbs Phenomenon.
10. Finding the Fourier Transform of a given signal and plotting its magnitude and phase
spectrum.
11. Waveform Synthesis using Laplace Transform.
12. Locating the Zeros and Poles and Plotting the Pole-Zero maps in S plane and Z-Plane for
the given transfer function.
13. Generation of Gaussian noise (Real and Complex), Computation of its mean, M.S. Value
and its Skew, Kurtosis and PSD, Probability Distribution Function.
14. Sampling theorem Verification.
15. Removal of noise by Autocorrelation / Cross correlation.
71
16. Extraction of Periodic Signal, masked by noise using Correlation.
17. Verification of Weiner – Khinchine Relations.
18. Checking a Random Process for Stationary in Wide sense
72
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EE61) ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING LABORATORY
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites
• Circuit Theory, Principles of Electrical Engineering
Course Objectives
• The theoretical concepts of KVL and KCL are verified experimentally
• The transient behavior of RLC networks are studied practically
• The network theorems are verified experimentally
• The performance and efficiency / regulation of electrical machines are determined
experimentally (under various operating conditions)
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply the network theorems in the domain applications
• Practically study the transient behavior of the RLC networks
• Find the applications of the electrical machines with the experimental determination of
the performance of the machines.
• Find the difference between Generator and Motor performance
characteristics
PART- A
1. Verification of KVL and KCL.
2. Series and Parallel Resonance – Timing, Resonant frequency, Bandwidth and Q-factor
determination for RLC network.
3. Time response of first order RC/RL network for periodic non-sinusoidal inputs time
constant and steady state error determination.
4. Two port network parameters –Z and Y-parameters
5. Two port network parameters – ABCD and h-parameters
6. Verification of Superposition and Reciprocity theorems.
7. Verification of maximum power transfer theorem. Verification on DC and AC Excitation
with resistive and Reactive loads.
8. Experimental determination of Thevenin’s and Norton’s equivalent circuits and
verification by direct test.
9. Constant –k Low Pass Filter and High Pass Filter- Design and Test.
PART- B
1. Magnetization characteristics of D.C Shunt generator, Determination of critical field
resistance.
2. Swinburne’s Test on Dc shunt machine. (Predetermination of efficiency of a given Dc
Shunt machine working as motor and generator)
73
3. Brake test on DC shunt motor. Determination of performance characteristics.
4. OC and SC tests on Single-phase transformer (Predetermination of efficiency and
regulation at given power factors and determination of equivalent circuit).
5. Load Test on single Phase Transformer.
6. Speed Control of DC shunt Motor – flux and armature voltage control methods.
Note: Any 12 of the above experiments 6 from each part to be conducted.
74
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech. I Sem (Common to all Branches)
L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS04) GENDER SENSITIZATION
(Common to All Branches)
Course Objectives :
• To develop students sensibility with regard to issues of gender in contemporary India.
• To provide a critical perspective on the socialization of men and women.
• To introduce students to information about some key biological aspects of genders.
• To expose the students to debates on the politics and economics of work.
• To help students reflect critically on gender violence.
• To expose students to more egalitarian interactions between men and women.
Course Outcomes:
• Students will have developed a better understanding of important issues related to gender in
contemporary India.
• Students will be sensitized to basic dimensions of the biological, sociological, psychological
and legal aspects of gender. This will be achieved through discussion of materials derived
from research, facts, everyday life, literature and film.
• Students will attain a finer grasp of how gender discrimination works in our society and how
to counter it.
• Students will acquire insight into the gendered division of labour and its relation to politics
and economics.
• Men and women students and professionals will be better equipped to work and live together
as equals.
• Students will develop a sense of appreciation of women in all walks of life.
• Through providing accounts of students and movements as well as the new laws that provide
protection and relief to women, the textbook will empower students to understand and
respond to gender violence.
Unit I:
UNDERSTANDING GENDER:
Gender: Why Should We Study It? (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-1)
Socialization: Making Women, Making Men (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-2)
Introduction, Preparing for Womanhood. Growing up Male. First lessons in Caste. Different
Masculinities.
Just Relationships: Being Together as Equals (Towards a world of Equals: Unit-12)
Mary Kom and Onler. Love and Acid just do not Mix. Love Letters, Mothers and Fathers. Further
Reading: Rosa Parks-The Brave Heart.
Unit II:
GENDER AND BIOLOGY:
Missing Women: Sex Selection and Its Consequences (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-4)
Declining Sex Ratio. Demographic Consequences.
Gender Spectrum: Beyond the Binary (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-10)
Two or Many? Struggles with Discrimination.
Additional Reading: Our Bodies, Our health (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-13)
75
Unit III:
GENDER AND LABOUR:
Housework: the Invisible Labour (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-3)
“My Mother doesn’t Work.””Share the Load.”
Women’s Work: Its Politics and Economics (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-7)
Fact and Fiction. Unrecognized and Unaccounted work. Further Reading: Wages and Conditions
of Work.
Unit IV:
ISSUES OF VOILENCE:
Sexual Harassment: Say No! (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-6)
Sexual Harassment: not Eve-Teasing-Coping with Everyday Harassment-Further Reading:
“Chupulu”.
Domestic Violence: Speaking Out (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-8)
Is Home a Safe Place?-When Women Unite [Film]. Rebuilding Lives. Further Reading: New
Forums for Justice.
Thinking about Sexual Violence (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-11)
Blaming the Victim-“I fought for my Life...”- Further reading: The Caste Face of Violence.
Unit V:
GENDER AND STUDIES:
Knowledge: Through the Lens of Gender (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-5)
Point of View. Gender and the Structure of Knowledge. Further Reading: Unacknowledged
Women Artists of Telangana.
Whose History? Questions for Historians and Others (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-9)
Reclaiming a Past. Writing Other Histories. Further Reading. Missing Pages from Modern
Telangana History.
Essential Reading: all the Units in the Textbook, “Towards a word of Equals: A Bilingual
Textbook on Gender” written by A. Suneetha, Uma Bhrugubanda, Duggirala Vasanta, Rama
Malkote, Vasudha Nagaraj, Asma rasheed, Gogu Shyamala, Deepa Sreenivas and Susie Tharu.
Note: Since it is Interdisiplinary Course, Resouse Persons can be drawn from the fields of
English Literature or Sociology or Political Science or any other qualified faculty who has
expertise in this field.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Sen, Amartya. “More than One Million Women are Missing.” New York Review of Books
37.20 (20 December 1990). Print. ‘We Were Making History...’ Life Stories of Women in
the Telangana People’s Struggle. New Delhi: Kali for Women, 1989.
2. Tripti Lahiri. “By the Numbers: Where Indian Women Work.” Women’s Studies Journal
(14 November 2012) Available online at : http://blogs.wsj.com/India real
time/2012/11/14/by-the-numbers-where-India-women-work/>
3. K. Satyanarayana and Susie tharu(Ed) Steel Nibs are Sprouting: New Dalit Writing from
South India Dossier 2: Telugu and Kannada
http://harpercollins.co.in/BookDetail.asp?Book Code =3732
4. Vimala . “Vantillu (The Kitchen)”. Women Writing in India: 600 BC to the Present.
Volume II: The 20th Century. Ed. Susie Tharu and K. Lalita. Delhi: Oxford University
Press, 1995. 599-601.
5. Shatrughna, Veena et al. Women’s Work and its Impact on Child Health and Nutrition,
Hyderabad, National Institute of Nutrition, Indian Council of Medical Research. 1993.
76
6. Stree Shakti Sanghatana. “ We Were Making History.....’Life Stories of Women in the
Telangana People’s Struggle. New Delhi: Kali for Women, 1989.
7. Menon, Nivedita. Seeing like a Feminist. New Delhi: Zubaan-Penguin Books, 2012.
8. Jayaprabha, A. “Chupulu (Stares)”, Women Writing in India: 600 BC to the Present.
Volume II: The 20th Century. Ed. Susie Tharu and K. Lalita. Delhi: Oxford University
Press, 1995. 596-597.
9. Javeed, Shayan and Anupam Manuhaar. “Women and wage Discrimination in India: A
Critical Analysis.”International Journal of Humanities and Social Science Invention 2.4
(2013).
10. Gautam , Liela and Gita Ramaswamy. “A ‘conversation’ between a Daughter and a
Mother.”Broadsheet on Contemporary Politics, Special issue on Sexuality and
Harassment: gender Politics on Campus Today. Ed. Madhumeeta Sinha and Asma
rasheed. Hyderabad: Anveshi Research Center for Women’s Studies, 2014.
11. Abdulali Sohaila “I Fought For My Life ...and Won. “Available online at:
http://www.thealternative.in/lifestyle/i-fought-for-my-lifeand-won-sohaila-abdulal/
12. Jeganathan Pradeep, Partha Chatterjee (Ed). “Community, Gender and Violence
Subaltern Studies XI’
Permanent Black and ravi Dayal Publishers, New Delhi, 2000.
13. K. Kapadia. The Violence of Development: the Politics of Identity, Gender and Social
Inequalities in India. London: Zed Books, 2002.
14. S. Benhabib. Situating the Self: Gender, Community, and Postmodernism in
Contemporary Ethics, London: Routledge, 1992.
15. Virginia Woolf. A Room of One’s Own. Oxford: Black Swan. 1992.
16. T. Banuri and M. Mahmood, Just Development: Beyond Adjustment with a Human
Face, Karachi: Oxford University Press, 1997
77
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EC03) SWITCHING THEORY AND LOGIC DESIGN
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites
• Basic Electronics
Course Objectives
• To understand the concepts of number systems, codes and design of various
combinational and synchronous sequential circuits
• To learn various methods to minimize the Boolean expressions for reducing the number
of gates and cost
• To realize logic networks, digital computers using PROM, PLA, PAL devices.
• To design state machines and ASM charts
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Represent Digital data in various formats
• Design and implement combinational and sequential circuits with minimized logic
• Design ASM charts for digital systems
UNIT I
Number Systems and Codes
Philosophy of number systems – complement representation of negative numbers-binary
arithmetic-binary codes. -error detecting & error correcting codes –hamming codes.
Boolean Algebra: Fundamental postulates of Boolean algebra - Basic theorems and properties,
Boolean functions and representations: SOP, POS, Truth table, Canonical and Standard forms-
Algebraic simplification, Digital logic gates, properties of XOR gates –universal gates-Multilevel
NAND/NOR realizations.
UNIT II
Switching Functions
Minimization of Switching Functions: Karnaugh - Map method-upto 5 variables, Prime
Implicants, don’t care combinations, Minimal SOP and POS forms, Tabular Method, Prime –
Implicant chart, simplification rules.
UNIT III
Combinational Logic Design
Design using conventional logic gates, Half adder, Full adder, ripple carry adder, carry look
ahead adder, BCD adder, Half subtractor, Full subtractor, Binary adder / subtractor. Encoder,
Decoder, Multiplexer, De-Multiplexer, Modular design using IC chips, MUX Realization of
switching functions Parity bit generator, Code-converters, Hazards and hazard free realizations.
78
UNIT IV
SEQUENTIAL CIRCUITS – I
Classification of sequential circuits (Synchronous, Asynchronous, Pulse mode, Level mode with
examples) Basic flip-flops-Triggering and excitation tables. Steps in synchronous sequential
circuit design. Design of Synchronous and Asynchronous counters & Shift Registers, Serial binary
adder, sequence detector.
UNIT V
SEQUENTIAL CIRCUITS – II
Finite state machine-capabilities and limitations, Mealy and Moore models-minimization of
completely specified and incompletely specified sequential machines, Partition techniques.
Introduction to ASM charts, simple examples, system Design using data path and control
subsystems, ASM charts for Flip Flops and Binary multiplier
Note: Assignments will be given on HDL simulations of Combinational logic circuits
TEXT BOOKS
1. Switching & Finite Automata theory – Zvi Kohavi, TMH,2nd Edition.
2. Digital Design – Morris Mano, PHI, 3rd Edition, 2006.
REFERENCES
1. An Engineering Approach To Digital Design – Fletcher, PHI. Digital Logic –Application
and Design – John M. Yarbrough, Thomson.
2. Fundamentals of Logic Design – Charles H. Roth, Thomson Publications, 5th Edition,
2004.
3. Digital Logic Applications and Design – John M. Yarbrough, Thomson Publications,
2006
4. Modern Digital Electronics by R.P JAIN, TMH
79
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech ECE – II sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EC04) ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT ANALYSIS
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites
• Electronic Devices and Circuits
Course Objectives
• To explain the operation, design and Analysis of multistage amplifiers using BJT and
MOSFET.
• Design high frequency BJT amplifiers and analysis of MOS amplifiers.
• Understand the concepts of feedback amplifiers and Oscillators
• Design large signal and tuned amplifiers.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Design amplifier circuits.
• Design various feedback amplifiers and power amplifiers.
• Apply the knowledge of Tuned amplifiers and power supplies.
UNIT I
Multistage Amplifiers
Introduction, Methods of inter-stage coupling, n-stage cascaded amplifier, Equivalent circuits,
Miller’s Theorem, Frequency effects, Amplifier analysis, High input resistance Transistor Circuits,
Darlington Pair, Two-stage RC-coupled JFET amplifier (in Common Source configuration).
UNIT II
BJT Frequency Response of Amplifiers
Frequency response of BJT amplifier, Analysis at low and high frequencies, Effect of coupling and
bypass capacitors, Hybrid-π Common Emitter transistor model, CE short circuit gain, CE current
gain with resistive load, Single-stage CE transistor amplifier response.
MOS Amplifiers
Basic Concepts, MOS Small signal Model, Common source amplifier with Resistive load, Diode
connected load, and current source load, Source follower, Common Gate stage Cascode and
Folded Cascode Amplifier and their frequency response. Basic MOS differential
amplifier(Qualitative analysis) Basic CMOS circuit.
80
UNIT III
Feedback Amplifiers and Oscillators
Concept of feedback, Classification of feedback amplifiers, general characteristics of negative
feedback amplifiers, Effect of feedback on amplifier characteristics, voltage series, voltage shunt,
current series and current shunt feedback configurations, Illustrative problems.
Classification of oscillators, Conditions for oscillations, RC phase shift oscillator, Wien bridge
oscillator, Generalized analysis of LC oscillators – Hartley and Colpitts oscillators, Piezoelectric
crystal oscillator, Stability of oscillators.
UNIT IV
Power Amplifiers
Classification of power amplifiers, Class A large-signal amplifiers, Series-fed and transformer-
coupled Class A audio power amplifier, Efficiency of Class A amplifier , Class B amplifier,
Transformer-coupled Class B push-pull amplifier, Complementary-symmetry Class B push-pull
amplifier, Efficiency of Class B amplifier, Distortion in power amplifiers, Thermal stability and Heat
sinks
UNIT V
Tuned Amplifiers
Introduction, Small signal single tuned amplifiers, Double-tuned amplifiers , Effect of cascading
single and double tuned amplifiers on bandwidth, Stagger-tuned amplifier and Class-C tuned
amplifiers(Qualitative analysis). Power supply requirements, Introduction and classification of
Power Supplies.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Integrated Electronics - Jacob Millman and Christos C. Halkias, , Tata McGraw-Hill
Education, 2008.
2. Design of Analog CMOS Integrated Circuits - Behzad Razavi, Tata McGraw-Hill
Education, 2008.
REFERENCES
1. Electronic Circuit Analysis - S. Salivahanan, N. Suresh Kumar, , Tata McGraw-Hill
Education, 2ndedition, 2012.
2. Electronic Devices and Circuit Theory - Robert L.Boysted , Louis Nashelisky, Pearson
Education , 9th edition, 2008. (ISBN: 978-81-219-2450-4)
3. Introductory Electronic Devices and Circuits, Robert T. Paynter, Pearson Education,
7th edition, 2010.
4. Micro Electronic Circuits – Sedra and Smith, Oxford University Press, 5th edition, 2009.
81
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EC05) ELECTROMAGNETIC THEORY AND TRANSMISSION LINES
Pre-requisites
• Vector Calculus, Electric and Magnetic fields concepts
Course Objectives
• To provide the basic concepts of Electric and Magnetic fields.
• To understand the Maxwell’s equations and applying boundary conditions to the
different material interfaces.
• To conceptualize the wave propagation characteristics for different media.
• To learn the basic parameters of Transmission lines.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the basic concepts of Electric and Magnetic fields.
• Solve equations of EM fields using Maxwell’s equations.
• Evaluate and analyze propagation characteristics of electromagnetic waves.
UNIT I
Electrostatics
Coulomb’s law, Electric filed intensity, fields due to different charge distributions, Electric flux
density, Gauss law and applications, Electric potential, Relations between E and V, Maxwell’s
two equations for electro static fields, energy density, Convection and Conduction currents,
Dielectric Constant, Isotropic and Homogeneous Dielectrics , Continuity equation, Relaxation
time, Poisson’s and Laplace equations, Capacitance –parallel plate, coaxial, spherical capacitors,
illustrative problems.
UNIT II
Magneto Statics
Biot – Savart’s law, Ampere’s circuit law and applications, Magnetic flux density, Magnetic scalar
and vector potentials, Forces due to Magnetic fields, Amperes Force law, Inductances and
Magnetic energy, illustrative problems
UNIT III
Maxwell’s Equations
Maxwell’s Equations (Time Varying Fields) Faraday’s law and Transformer emf, inconsistency of
the Amperes law and displacement current density, Maxwell’s equations in differential forms,
integral forms and word statements, conditions at a boundary surface: Dielectric - Dielectric and
Dielectric - conductor interfaces – illustrative problems.
82
EM wave Characteristics – I
Wave equations for conducting and perfect dielectric media. Uniform plane waves – definitions,
all relations between E and H sinusoidal variations, wave propagation in loss less and conducting
media, conductors and Dielectrics characterization, wave propagation in good conductors and
good dielectrics, polarization, illustrative problems.
UNIT IV
EM Waves characteristics – II
Reflection and refraction of plane waves – normal and Oblique incidences for both perfect
conductor and perfect dielectrics, Brewster angle, Critical angle and Total internal reflection,
Surface Impedance, poynting vector and poynting theorem – applications, power loss in a plane
conductor, illustrative problems.
UNIT V
Transmission Lines
Types, parameters, Transmission line equations, primary and secondary constants, Expressions
for characteristic impedance, propagation constant, phase and group velocities, infinite line
concepts, Loss loss/ low loss characterization, Distortion – condition for distortion less and
minimum attenuation, Loading, Types of loading, illustrative problems. Input impedance relations,
SC and OC lines, reflection coefficient, VSWR, UHF lines as circuit elements, /4, /2, /8 lines -
impedance Transformations, Significance of Z and Z , Smith chart configuration and
min max
applications, single and double stub matching, illustrative problems.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Elements of Electro magnetics – Matthew N.O.Sadiku, Oxford Univ.Press, 3rd
Edition, 2001.
2. Transmission Lines and Networks - UmeshSinha, SatyaPrakashan, Tech.India
Publications, New Delhi, 2001.
REFERENCES
1. Engineering Electromagnetics - William H.Haytjrand John A. Buck,TMH, 7th Edition,
2006.
2. Electromagnetic Waves and Radiating Systems- E.C. Jordan and K.G.Balman,PHI,
2nd Edition, 2000.
3. Electromagnetic Field Theory and Transmission Lines - G.S.N. Raju,
Pearson Publication, 2005.
4. Networks Lines and Fields - John D Rider 2nd Edition, PHI, 1999.
83
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EI04) PULSE AND DIGITAL CIRCUITS
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites
• Electronic Devices and Circuits
Course Objectives
• To provide knowledge of Pulse and Wave shaping circuits.
• To analyze and design BJT switching circuits
• Analyze and Design the Sweep generators for various applications.
• To Analyze and Design of the logic gates and sampling gates using discrete
components.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Design linear and non-linear wave shaping circuits.
• Apply the switching and logic concepts in digital circuits.
• Design non-sinusoidal waveform generators.
UNIT I
Linear Waveshaping
High pass, low pass RC circuits, their response for sinusoidal, step, pulse, square and ramp
inputs. RC network as differentiator and integrator. Attenuators and its applications in CRO
probe, RL and RLC circuits and their response for step input, ringing circuits.
UNIT II
Non-Linear Wave Shaping
Diode clippers, Transistor clippers, clipping at two independent levels, Transfer characteristics of
clippers, Emitter coupled clipper, Comparators, applications of voltage comparators, clamping
operation, clamping circuits using diode with different inputs, Clamping circuit theorem, practical
clamping circuits, effect of diode characteristics on clamping voltage.
UNIT III
Switching Characteristics of Devices
Diode as a switch, piecewise linear diode characteristics, Transistor as a switch, Break down
voltage consideration of transistor, saturation parameters of Transistor and their variation with
temperature, transistor-switching times.
84
Sampling Gates
Basic operating principles of sampling gates, Unidirectional and Bi-directional sampling gates,
Applications of sampling gates.
Logic Gates
Relaxation of logic gates Using Diodes and Transistors: AND, OR, NOT, NAND and NOR gates
using Diodes & Resistors
UNIT IV
Multivibrators
Design and Analysis of Bistable, Monostable, Astable Multivibrators (Collector coupled). Analysis
of Schmitt trigger using transistors, Hysteresis. Applications of multivibrators.
UNIT V
Time Base Generators
General features of a time base signal, methods of generating time base waveform, Miller and
Bootstrap time base generators – basic principles, Transistor miller time base generator,
Transistor Bootstrap time base generator, Current time base generators.
Synchronization and Frequency Division
Principles of Synchronization, Pulse synchronization of Relaxation devices, Frequency division in
sweep circuits, Astable relaxation circuits, Synchronization of a sweep circuit with symmetrical
signals.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Pulse, Digital and Switching Waveforms J. Millman and H. Taub, McGraw-Hill, 1991.
2. Pulse and Digital Circuits – A. Anand Kumar, PHI.
REFERENCES
1. Pulse and Digital circuits – M.S. Prakash Rao, Mc. Graw Hill
2. Solid State Pulse circuits - David A. Bell, PHI, 4th Edn.., 2002 .
3. Wave Generation and Shaping L. Strauss.
4. Pulse, Digital Circuits and Computer Fundamentals - R.Venkataraman.
85
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B .Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EC06) ANALOG COMMUNICATIONS
Pre-requisites
• Signals and Systems
Course Objectives
• To know the need for modulation in radio communication system.
• To understand the principles of various modulation and demodulation Techniques.
• To analyze various types of transmitters and receivers.
• To analyze the noise performance of Analog Modulation systems.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply the analog modulation techniques to real time applications.
• Design transmitters and receivers for Analog Communication.
• Analyze various communication systems by including noise.
UNIT I
Introduction
Introduction to communication system, Need for modulation, Frequency Division Multiplexing ,
Amplitude Modulation, Definition, Time domain and frequency domain description, single tone
modulation, power relations in AM waves, Generation of AM wave using ,square law and
Switching modulator, Detection of AM Waves using square law and Envelope detector.
DSB Modulation
Double side band suppressed carrier (DSB-Sc) time domain and frequency domain description,
Generation of DSBSC Waves using Balanced and Ring Modulator, Coherent detection of DSB-
SC Modulated waves, COSTAS Loop.
UNIT II
SSB Modulation
Frequency domain description, Frequency discrimination method for generation of AM SSB
Modulated Wave, Time domain description, Phase discrimination method for generating AM SSB
Modulated waves. Demodulation of SSB Waves, Vestigial side band modulation: Frequency
description, Generation of VSB Modulated wave, Time domain description, Envelope detection of
a VSB Wave pulse Carrier, Comparison of AM Techniques, Applications of different AM Systems.
Noise in Analog communication System, Noise in DSB and SSB System Noise in AM System
86
UNIT III
Angle Modulation
Basic concepts, Frequency Modulation: Single tone frequency modulation, Spectrum Analysis of
Sinusoidal FM Wave, Narrow band FM, Wide band FM, Transmission bandwidth of FM Wave -
Generation of FM Waves, Direct FM and Indirect FM, Detection of FM Waves: Balanced
Frequency discriminator, Foster Seeley discriminator, Ratio detector, Zero crossing detector,
Phase locked loop,Comparison of FM and AM. Noise in Angle Modulation System, Threshold
effect in Angle Modulation System, Pre-emphasis and de-emphasis
UNIT IV
Transmitters
Radio Transmitter - Classification of Transmitter, AM Transmitter, FM Transmitter – Variable
reactance type and phase modulated FM Transmitter, frequency stability in FM Transmitter.
Receivers
Radio Receiver - Receiver Types - Tuned radio frequency receiver, Super-heterodyne receiver,
RF section, Mixer (Down Converter) and Characteristics, Frequency Synthesizer, Frequency
changing and tracking, Intermediate frequency, AGC, FM Receiver, Comparison with AM
Receiver, Amplitude limiting.
UNIT V
Pulse Modulation
Overview of sampling for Band pass and Band limited signals, Time Division Multiplexing, Types
of Pulse modulation, PAM (Single polarity, double polarity) PWM: Generation and demodulation
of PWM, PPM, Generation and demodulation of PPM.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Principles of Communication Systems – H Taub and D. Schilling, Gautham Sahe, 3rd
Edition, TMH, 2009.
2. Communication Systems – R.P. Singh, SP Sapre, 2nd Edition,TMH, 2007.
REFERENCES
1. Principles of Communication Systems - Simon Haykin, John Wiley, 2nd Edition.
2. Electronics and Communication System – George Kennedy and Bernard Davis,
TMH, 2004.
3. Fundamentals of Communication Systems - John G. Proakis, Masond, Salehi
PEA, 2006.
4. Communication Systems –B.P Lathi, B.S.Publication, 2006.
5. Modern analog and digital Communication Systems – B.P. Lathi and Zhi Ding,
Oxford Publication,4th Edition, 2010.
87
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5EE08) CONTROL SYSTEMS
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites
• Basic concepts of Mathematics and Signal concepts
Course objectives
• To understand the different ways of system representations such as Transfer function
representation and state space representations and to assess the system dynamic
response
• To assess the system performance using time domain analysis and methods for
improving it
• To assess the system performance using frequency domain analysis and techniques for
improving the performance
• To design various controllers and compensators to improve system performance
Course outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• How to improve the system performance by selecting a suitable controller and/or a
compensator for a specific application
• Apply various time domain and frequency domain techniques to assess the system
performance
• Apply various control strategies to different applications (example: Power systems,
electrical drives etc…)
• Test system Controllability and Observability using state space representation and
applications of state space representation to various systems.
UNIT I
Introduction
Concepts of Control Systems- Open Loop and closed loop control systems and their differences-
Different examples of control systems.
Mathematical models – Differential equations, Impulse Response and transfer functions -
Translational and Rotational mechanical systems
UNIT II
Transfer Function Representation and Time Response Analysis
Transfer Function of DC Servo motor - AC Servo motor- Synchro transmitter, Receiver and,
Magnetic amplifier.
Block diagram Reduction–Signal flow graphs - Mason’s gain formula – Numerical
Problems.
88
Standard test signals - Time response of first order systems –Transient response of second order
systems, Characteristic Equation of feedback control systems, Time domain specifications –
Steady state response - Steady state errors and error constants – Effects of Feedback on System
Performance
UNIT III
Stability Analysis in S-Domain
The concept of stability – Routh’s stability criterion – qualitative stability and conditional stability –
limitations of Routh’s stability.
Root Locus Technique & Pid Controllers
The root locus concept - construction of root loci-effects of adding poles and zeros to G(s) H(s) on
the root loci. Effects of P,PD,PI and PID Controllers.
UNIT IV
Frequency Response: Stability Analysis & Compensators
Introduction, Frequency domain specifications-Bode plot- transfer function from the Bode plot-
Phase margin and Gain margin-Stability Analysis from Bode Plots, Polar Plots-Nyquist Plots-
Stability Analysis.
Compensators: Lead, Lag, Lead-Lag Compensators on System Performance.
UNIT V
Classical control design techniques and state space analysis of continuous systems
Concepts of state, state variables and state models .State Transition Matrix and it’s Properties –
Transformations : State Space to Transfer Function and Transfer Function to State Space.
Concepts of Controllability and Observability.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Control Systems Engineering by I. J. Nagrath and M. Gopal, New Age International (P)
Limited, Publishers, 2nd edition.
2. Automatic Control Systems 8th edition by B. C. Kuo 2003– John wiley and son’s.,
REFERENCES BOOKS
1. Modern Control Engineering by Katsuhiko Ogata, Prentice Hall of India Pvt. Ltd., 3rd
edition, 1998.
2. Control Systems by N.K.Sinha, New Age International (P) Limited Publishers, 3rd
Edition, 1998.
3. Control Systems Engineering. by NISE, John wiley, 3rd Edition.
4. Modelling and Control Of Dynamic Systems by Narciso F. Macia George J. Thaler,
Thomson Publishers.
5. Modern control system theory by M.Gopal, New age international publishers, Revised
second edition.
6 Control systems by R.C. Sukla, Dhanpathrai Publications
89
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EC53) ANALOG COMMUNICATIONS LABORATORY
Pre-requisites
• signals and systems
Course Objectives
• To analyze various modulation techniques in communications.
• To analyze various spectrums using spectrum analyzer.
• To analyze receiver characteristics.
• To understand the importance of AGC and VCO
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Design and analyze analog modulation and demodulation systems.
• Measure the performance characteristics of Receivers
The experiments are to be software simulated and implemented through Hardware.
1. Amplitude modulation and demodulation.
2. Diode detector characteristics.
3. Frequency Modulation and Demodulation.
4. Balanced Modulator.
5. Synchronous detector.
6. SSB system
7. Pre-emphasis and de-emphasis.
8. Characteristics of mixer.
9. Digital phase detector.
10. Phase locked loop using ASL kit.
11. Spectral analysis of AM and FM signals using spectrum analyzer.
12. Squelch Circuit.
13. Frequency Synthesizer.
14. AGC Characteristics and AVC using ASL kit.
15. Receiver Measurements
16. Function generator and VCO using ASL kit.
90
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B. Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EC54) ELECTRONIC AND PULSE CIRCUITS LABORATORY
Pre-requisites
• Electronic Devices and Circuits
Course Objectives
• To Realize and simulate various BJT and FET amplifiers.
• To Design and simulate various BJT Oscillators.
• To Design and simulate power amplifier.
• To Design various wave shaping circuits
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply the concepts of amplifiers and oscillators in real time applications.
• Design power amplifiers and wave shaping circuits
PART - A
Design and simulation of the following circuits using simulation software and implementation
through hardware.
1. Common Emitter Amplifier with & without emitter bypass capacitor.
2. Two stage RC coupled BJT Amplifier.
3. Darlington pair.
4. Current shunt and voltage series feedback amplifier.
5. RC phase shift Oscillator using transistors.
6. Hartley and colpitt’s Oscillator using transistors.
7. Class B Complementary Symmetry Amplifier.
8. MOS Amplifier.
PART - B
1. Linear wave shaping.
2. Non Linear wave shaping – Basic Clippers and Clamper circuits.
3. Study of Logic Gates.
4. Astable Multivibrator.
5. Monostable Multivibrator.
6. Schmitt Trigger.
7. UJT Relaxation Oscillator.
8. Bootstrap sweep circuit.
Note: Any 12 of the above experiments, 6 from each part to be conducted.
91
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5IT04) COMPUTER ORGANIZATION
(Common to ECE, CSE, EIE & IT)
Pre-requisite
• Digital fundamentals
Course Objectives
• To understand the basic structure and operation of a digital computer.
• To analyse the operations of the arithmetic unit including the algorithms &
implementation of fixed-point and floating-point addition, subtraction, multiplication &
division.
• To learn the different ways of communicating with I/O devices and standard I/O
interfaces.
• To analyse the hierarchical memory system including cache memories, secondary
memory and virtual memory.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Describe the structure and functioning of a digital computer, including its overall system
architecture, operating system, and digital components.
• Understand the impact of instruction set architecture on cost-performance of computer
design
• Differentiate the applicability of single-cycle (MIPS), multi-cycle (MIPS), parallel,
pipelined, superscalar, and RISC/CISC architectures
• Analyze cost performance and design trade-offs in designing and constructing a
computer processor including memory
UNIT I
Basic Structure Of Computers
Introduction, Computer Evolution and performance, System Buses, bus Structures, Improvements
in Chip Organization and Architecture, The evolution of the INTEL x86 architecture, Embedded
system and the arm processor.
Register Transfer Language and Micro operations: Register Transfer language, Register
Transfer, Arithmetic Micro operations, Logic Micro operations, Shift Micro operations, and
Arithmetic logic shift unit.
UNIT II
Basic Computer Organization and Design
Instruction Codes, Computer Registers, computer instructions – instruction Cycle, memory
reference instructions, input-output and interrupt. Central Processing Unit: Stack organization,
instruction formats, addressing modes, data transfer and manipulation, program control, CISC
and RISC.
92
UNIT III
The Memory Organization
The Computer System: Characteristics of Computer Memory Systems, The Memory Hierarchy
Semiconductor Main Memory, SRAM and DRAM,External Memory, performance considerations,
RAID, virtual memory, secondary storage.
Microprogrammed Control: Control memory, address sequencing, micro program example,
design of control unit, hardwired control, micro programmed control.
UNIT IV
Computer Arithmetic
Addition and subtraction, multiplication algorithms, Division algorithms, floating-point arithmetic
operations, Decimal arithmetic unit, Decimal arithmetic operations.
Input-Output Organization
Peripheral devices, input-output interface, asynchronous data transfer, modes of transfer, priority
interrupt, direct memory access.
UNIT V
Pipeline and Vector Processing
Parallel Processing, Pipelining, Arithmetic Pipeline, Instruction pipeline, RISC pipeline Vector
Processing, Array Processors.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Computer Organization and Architecture – William Stallings Sixth edition, Pearson/PHI
2. Computer System Architecture – M. Morris Mano, III edition, Pearson/PHI
REFERENCES
1. Fundamentals of Computer Organization and Design, Sivarama Dandamudi
2. Computer organization – Carl Hamacher, Zvonks Vranesic, Safeazaky, V edition, Mc
Graw Hill
3. Computer Architecture a Quantitative approach, John L. Hennessy and David A Patterson,
Fourth edition Elsevier.
4. Computer Architecture Fundamentals and Principles of Computer Design, Joseph D/
Dumas II, BS Publication
93
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EI06) LINEAR AND DIGITAL IC APPLICATIONS
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites
• Electronic circuits and Digital fundamentals
Course Objectives
• To study the characteristics and design concepts of operational amplifiers.
• To understand the functionality of specific ICs : 555 timer, 565, voltage
regulators.
• To study the applications and design concepts of various ICs.
• To design circuits using digital ICs.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Analyze the characteristics of analog ICs and logic families.
• Design applications using analog ICs.
• Design applications using digital ICs
UNIT I
Integrated Circuits
Classification, chip size and circuit complexity, basic information of Op-amp, ideal and practical
Op-amp, internal circuits, Op-amp characteristics, DC and AC characteristics, 741 op-amp and its
features, modes of operation-inverting, non-inverting, differential.
OP-AMP Applications
Basic application of Op-amp, Instrumentation amplifier, ac amplifier, V to I and I to V converters,
Sample and Hold circuits, Log and antilog amplifier, Precision rectifiers, Differentiators,
Integrators, Peak detector, Comparators.
UNIT II
Active Filters and Oscillators
Introduction, 1st order LPF, HPF filters. Band pass, Band reject and all pass filters. Oscillator
types and principle of operation – RC and Wien bridge, waveform generators – triangular, square
wave and VCO.
UNIT III
Special ICs
Introduction to 555 timer, functional diagram, Monostable and Astable operations and
applications, Schmitt Trigger, PLL-Introduction, block schematic, principles and description of
individual blocks of 565, introduction to voltage regulators.
94
D-A and A- D Converters
Introduction, basic DAC techniques, weighted resistor DAC, R-2R ladder DAC, inverted R-2R
DAC, and IC 1408 DAC, Different types of ADCs - parallel comparator type ADC, counter type
ADC, successive approximation ADC and dual slope ADC. DAC and ADC specifications.
UNIT– IV
Logic Families
Classification of Integrated circuits, comparison of TTL and CMOS logic families, standard TTL
NAND Gate- Analysis and characteristics, TTL open collector O/Ps, Tristate TTL, MOS and
CMOS open drain and tristate outputs, CMOS transmission gate, IC interfacing- TTL driving
CMOS and CMOS driving TTL .
UNIT V
Applications of TTL 74XX Series:
Combinational Circuits
Code Converters, Decoders, De-multiplexers, Encoders, priority Encoders, multiplexers and their
applications, Priority Generators. Arithmetic circuit ICs-parallel binary Adder/Subtractor circuits
using 2’s-Complement system. Digital comparator circuits.
Sequential Circuits
RS, JK, JK Master Slave, D and T Type Flip-Flops. Synchronous and Asynchronous counters,
Decade counter, shift registers
TEXT BOOKS
1. Linear Integrated Circuits –D. Roy Chowdhury, New Age International (p) Ltd, 2ndEdition,
2008..
2. Digital Fundamentals – Floyd and Jain, Pearson Education, 8th Edition, 2005.
REFERENCES
1. Op-Amps and Linear ICs – Ramakanth A. Gayakwad, PHI, 1987
2. Operational Amplifiers and Linear Integrated Circuits – R.F. Coughlin and Fredrick F.
Driscoll, PHI, 1977.
3. Operational Amplifiers and Linear Integrated Circuits:4/e William D Stanley PEI 2009.
3. Op Amps and Linear Integrated Circuits: Concepts and Applications by James M.Fiore,
Cengage/ Jaico ,2/e, 2009.
5. Operational Amplifiers and Linear Integrated Circuits by K.Lal Kishore - Pearson education,
2008.
6. Modern Digital Electronics RP Jain 4/e TMH 2010.
95
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EC07) DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS
Pre-requisites
• Analog Communications, Probability theory
Course Objectives
• Understand various modulation techniques.
• Study the concepts of base band transmissions.
• Knowledge of information theory.
• Importance of coding theory.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand conversion of analog signal to digital signal
• Distinguish between base band transmission and carrier digital modulation schemes
• Apply modulation techniques and Coding Schemes to design a digital communication
system.
UNIT I
Introduction
Elements of digital communication systems, Advantages and disadvantages of digital
communication systems, Applications.
Pulse Digital Modulation
Elements of PCM: Sampling, Quantization and Coding, Quantization error, Non-uniform
Quantization and Companding. Differential PCM (DPCM), Adaptive DPCM, Delta modulation and
its drawbacks, Adaptive Delta modulation, Comparison of PCM and DM systems, Noise in PCM
and DM systems.
UNIT II
Base Band Transmission
Requirements of a Line Encoding Format, Various Line Encoding Formats- Unipolar, Polar,
Bipolar, Scrambling Techniques: BZ8S, HDB3, Computation of Power Spectral Densities of
various Line Encoding Formats.
Pulse Shaping
Inter symbol interference, pulse shaping to reduce ISI, Nyquist’s criterion, Raised cosine filter,
Equalization, Correlative level coding: Duo-binary encoding, modified duo –binary coding
96
UNIT III
Digital Modulation Techniques
Introduction, ASK Modulator, Coherent ASK Detector, Non-Coherent ASK Detector, FSK,
Bandwidth and frequency Spectrum of FSK, Non-Coherent FSK Detector, Coherent FSK
Detector, BPSK, Coherent BPSK Detection, QPSK, DPSK, DEPSK.
Optimal Reception Of Digital Signal
Baseband signal receiver, Probability Of Error, Optimum Filter, Matched Filter, Probability Of
Error Using Matched Filter, Probability Of Error For Various Line Encoding Formats, Correlator
Receiver, Calculation of Probability of Error for ASK, FSK, BPSK.
UNIT IV
Information Theory
Information and Entropy conditional entropy, Mutual Information, Channel Capacity, Various
Mathematical Modeling of Communication Channels and their Capacities, Hartley Shannon Law,
Tradeoff between Bandwidth and S/N ratio, Source Coding: Fixed Length and Variable Length
Source Coding Schemes.
UNIT V
Linear Block Codes
Introduction to error control coding, Matrix description of linear block codes, error detection and
error correction capabilities of linear block codes, hamming code, binary cyclic codes, algebraic
structure, encoding, syndrome calculation and decoding.
Convolutional Codes
Introduction, Encoding Of Convolution Codes, Time Domain Approach, Transform Domain
Approach, General approach: State, Tree And Trellis Diagram, Decoding using Viterbi Algorithm,
Burst Error Correction: Block Interleaving and Convolution Interleaving.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Digital and Analog Communication Systems – Sam Shanmugam, John Wiley, 2005
2. Principles of Communication Systems – H. Taub and D. Schilling, Goutam Saha, 3rd
Edition, McGraw-Hill, 2010.
REFERENCES
1. Digital Communications – Simon Haykin, John Wiley, 2005.
2. Digital Communications – John Proakis, TMH, 1983.
3. Communication Systems Analog and Digital – Singh and Sapre, TMH, 2004.
4. Modern Analog and Digital Communications – B.P. Lathi and Zhi Ding, International 4th
Edition, Oxford University Press.
97
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5EC08) ANTENNAS AND WAVE PROPAGATION
Pre-requisites
• Electro Magnetic Theory concepts
Course Objectives
• To know about the fundamentals to design various types of Antennas.
• To analyze the fields associated with various types of antennas along with emphasis on
their applications
• To know the measurement techniques involved in measuring antenna parameters
• To understand the concepts of radio wave propagation in the atmosphere.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Describe the basic parameters and analyze the fields radiated by various types of
antennas.
• Measure antenna parameters critical for evaluating its performance
• Compare the intricacies involved in various modes of wave propagation
UNIT I
Antenna Fundamentals
Introduction, Radiation Mechanism – single wire, 2 wires, dipoles, Current Distribution on a thin
wire antenna. Antenna Parameters - Radiation Patterns, Patterns in Principal Planes, Main Lobe
and Side Lobes, Beamwidths, Polarization, Beam Area, Radiation Intensity, Beam Efficiency,
Directivity, Gain and Resolution, Antenna Apertures, Aperture Efficiency, Effective Height,
illustrated Problems.
Antenna properties based on Reciprocity theorem.
Antenna Measurements – Patterns Required, Set Up, Distance Criterion, Directivity and Gain
Measurements (Comparison, Absolute and 3-Antenna Methods).
UNIT II
Thin Linear Wire Antennas
Retarded Potentials, Radiation from Small Electric Dipole, Quarterwave Monopole and Halfwave
Dipole – Current Distributions, Evaluation of Field Components, Power Radiated, Radiation
Resistance, Beamwidths, Directivity, Effective Area and Effective height. Natural current
distributions, fields and patterns of Thin Linear Center-fed Antennas of different lengths, Radiation
Resistance at a point which is not current maximum.
Loop Antennas : Introduction, Comparison of loop antennas with dipole.
UNIT III
Antenna Arrays
2 element arrays – different cases, Principle of Pattern Multiplication, N element Uniform Linear
Arrays – Broadside, Endfire Arrays, EFA with Increased Directivity, Derivation of their
98
characteristics and comparison; Concept of Scanning Arrays. Directivity Relations (no
derivations). Related Problems. Binomial Arrays, Effects of Uniform and Non-uniform Amplitude
Distributions, Design Relations. Arrays with Parasitic Elements, Yagi - Uda Arrays, Folded
Dipoles and their characteristics.
Non-Resonant Radiators
Introduction, Traveling wave radiators – basic concepts, Longwire antennas – field strength
calculations and patterns, Microstrip Antennas-Introduction, Features, Advantages and
Limitations, Rectangular Patch Antennas –Geometry and Parameters, Impact of different
parameters on characteristics. Broadband Antennas: Helical Antennas – Significance, Geometry,
basic properties; Design considerations for monofilar helical antennas in Axial Mode and Normal
Modes (Qualitative Treatment).
UNIT IV
VHF, UHF and Microwave Antennas - I
Reflector Antennas : Flat Sheet and Corner Reflectors. Paraboloidal Reflectors – Geometry,
characteristics, types of feeds, F/D Ratio, Spill Over, Back Lobes, Aperture Blocking, Off-set
Feeds, Cassegrainian Feeds.
Horn Antennas – Types, Optimum Horns, Design Characteristics of Pyramidal Horns; Lens
Antennas – Geometry, Features, Dielectric Lenses and Zoning, Applications.
UNIT V
Wave Propagation
Concepts of Propagation – frequency ranges and types of propagations. Ground Wave
Propagation–Characteristics, Parameters, Wave Tilt, Flat and Spherical Earth Considerations.
Sky Wave Propagation – Formation of Ionospheric Layers and their Characteristics, Mechanism
of Reflection and Refraction, Critical Frequency, MUF and Skip Distance – Calculations for flat
and spherical earth cases, Optimum Frequency, LUHF, Virtual Height, Ionospheric Abnormalities,
Ionospheric Absorption.
Fundamental Equation for Free-Space Propagation, Basic Transmission Loss Calculations.
Space Wave Propagation – Mechanism, LOS and Radio Horizon. Tropospheric Wave
Propagation – Radius of Curvature of path, Effective Earth’s Radius, Effect of Earth’s Curvature,
Field Strength Calculations, M-curves and Duct Propagation, Tropospheric Scattering.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Antennas for All Applications – John D. Kraus and Ronald J. Marhefka, 3rd Edition, TMH, 2003.
2.Antennas and Wave Propagation – K.D. Prasad, Satya Prakashan, Tech India Publications,
New Delhi, 2001
REFERENCES
1. Antenna Theory - C.A. Balanis, John Wiley and Sons, 2nd Edition, 2001.
2. Electromagnetic Waves and Radiating Systems – E.C. Jordan and K.G. Balmain, PHI, 2nd
Edition, 2000.
3. Transmission and Propagation – E.V.D. Glazier and H.R.L. Lamont, The Services Text Book of
Radio, vol. 5, Standard Publishers Distributors, Delhi.
99
4. Electronic and Radio Engineering – F.E. Terman, McGraw-Hill, 4th Edition, 1955.
5. Antennas – John D. Kraus, McGraw-Hill, 2nd Edition, 1988.
100
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective-I 3 0 3
(5CE71) DISASTER MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives
• Understand the difference between a hazard and disaster
• Know about various disasters and their impacts
• Understand Different approaches of disaster risk reduction
• Understand Disaster risks in India
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Acquire the knowledge disaster Management
• Understand the vulnerability of ecosystem and infrastructure due to a disaster
• Acquire the knowledge of Disaster Management Phases
• Understand the hazard and vulnerability profile of India
UNIT I
Introduction to disaster
Concepts and definitions (Disaster, Hazard, Vulnerability, Resilience, Risks)
UNIT II
Disasters: Classifications, Causes, Impacts (including social, economic, political,
environment, health, psychosocial, etc.)
Differential impacts-in terms of caste, class, gender, age, location, disability Global trends in
disasters. Urban disaster, pandemics, complex emergencies, Climate change
UNIT III
Approaches to disaster Risk reduction
Disaster cycle-its analysis, phase, Culture of safety, prevention, mitigation and preparedness,
community based DRR, Structural measures, roles and responsibilities of community. Panchayati
Raj Institutions/Urban Local Bodies (PRIs/ULBs), states, center and other stake-holders.
UNIT IV
Inter-relationship between Disaster and Development
Factors affecting Vulnerabilities, differential impacts, impact of development projects such as
dams, embankments, change in land-use etc. Climate change Adaption. Relevance of indigenous
knowledge, appropriate technology and local resources.
101
UNIT V
Disaster Risk Management in India
Hazard and vulnerability profile of India
Components of Disaster relief: Water, food, sanitation, shelter, health, waste management
Institutional arrangements (Mitigation, Response and Preparedness, DM Act Policy, Other
related polices, plan, programmes and legislation)
Project Work : (Field Work, Case Studies)
The project/fieldwork is meant for students to understand vulnerabilities and to work on reducing
disaster risks and to build a culture of safety. Projects must be conceived creatively based on the
geographic location and hazard.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Alexander David, Introduction in ‘Confronting Catastrophe’, oxford University press, 2000
2. Andharia J. Vulnerability in disaster Discourse, JTCDM, Tata Institute of Social Sciences
working paper no.8, 2008
REFERENCES
1. Blaikie, P, Cannon T, Davis I, Wisner B 1997. At Risk Natural Hazards, Peoples’
Vulnerability and Disaster, Rutledge.
2. Coppola P Damon, 2007. Introduction to International Disaster Management.
3. Carter, Nick 1991.Disaster Management: A Disaster Manager’s Handbook. Asian
Development Bank, Manila Philippines.
4. Cuny,F.1983. Development and Disasters, Oxford University Press
5. Govt.of India; Disaster Management Act 2005,Government of India, New Delhi.
102
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech CE – I sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective-I 3 0 3
(5EE71) RENEWABLE ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES
Course Objectives:
• To provide necessary knowledge about the modeling, design and analysis of various PV
systems
• To show that PV is an economically viable, environmentally sustainable alternative to the world's
energy supplies
• To understand the power conditioning of PV and WEC system’s power output
Course Outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Model, analyze and design various photovoltaic systems
• Know the feasibility of various storage systems
• Design efficient stand alone and grid connected PV and WEC power systems
UNIT I
Introduction to photovoltaic (pv) systems:
Historical development of PV systems- Overview of PV usage in the world Photovoltaic effect-
conversion of solar energy into electrical energy.
Solar cells and arrays
Behavior of solar cells-basic structure and characteristics: types - equivalent circuit-modeling of
solar cells including the effects of temperature, irradiation and series/shunt resistances on the
open-circuit voltage and short-circuit currentSolar cell arrays- PV modules-PV generators-
shadow effects and bypass diodes- hot spot problem in a PV module and safe operating area-
Terrestrial PV module modelingInterfacing PV modules with different loads.
UNIT II
Energy storage alternatives for pv systems
Methods of Energy storage –Pumped Energy Storage – Compressed Energy Storage – Storage
batteries- lead-acid- nickel cadmium-nickel-metal-hydride and lithium type batteries. Small
storage systems employing ultra capacitors- properties- modeling of batteries.
UNIT-III
Wind Energy Conversion systems (WECS)
Basic Principle of WECS, Nature of Wind, Wind survey in india, Components of WECS, Power Vs
Speed, TSR, Maximum Power operation, WECS- Trade off- Control Requirements, Basic
Principle of Induction generator for WECS
UNIT-IV
Converters for PV and Wind
AC-DC Rectifier, DC-AC inverter (Basic operation) Grid interface voltage and frequency control,
Battery charger (Basic operation)
103
Power conditioning of PV systems
Array Design, Sun Tracking, Single axis-Dual Axis, Maximum Power point Tracking- PO method-
IC method
UNIT-V
Stand Alone systems:
PV Stand Alone, Electric Vehicle, Wind stand Alone, Standalone Hybrid systems- Hybrid with
diesel, Hybrid with Fuel cell- Mode controller- Load sharing, systems sizing, wind farm sizing-
Power and Energy estimates, , Residential systems, PV water pumping, PV powered lighting-
TEXT BOOKS
1. Patel M. R., “Wind and Solar Power Systems Design, Analysis, and Operation”, CRC Press,
New York, 2nd Edition, 2005
2. Goetzberger, Hoffmann V. U., “Photovoltaic Solar Energy Generation”,
SpringerVerlag,Berlin, 2005.
REFERENCES
1. Komp R.J., “Practical Photovoltaics: Electricity from solar cells”, Aatec Publications,Michigan,
3rd Edition, 2001.
2. Castaner L., Silvestre S., “Modeling Photovoltaic Systems Using PSpice”, John Wiley & Sons,
England, 2002.
3. Jenny Nelson, “The physics of solar cells”, Imperial College Press, London, 2004.
104
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ECE I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective – I 3 0 3
(5ME71) DIGITAL FABRICATION
Course Objectives:
• Understand the need of digital fabrication
• Understand about Two dimensional layer by layer techniques
• Know about extrusion based systems, post processing and the software issues involved in
digital fabrication
• Know the applications of digital fabrication
Learning Outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the importance of digital fabrication
• Identify different techniques involved in two dimensional layering
• Analyze the software issues involved in digital fabrication and know about extrusion based
systems and post processing
• Apply the knowledge gained in the digital fabrication
UNIT I:
Introduction to Additive Manufacturing: Introduction to AM, AM evolution, Classification of
Additive Manufacturing, Distinction between AM & CNC Machining, Advantages of AM
UNIT II:
Two- Dimensional Layer- by Layer Techniques: Stereolithography (SL), Solid Foil
Polymerization (SFP), Selective Laser Sintering (SLS), Selective Powder Building (SPB), Ballistic
Particle Manufacturing (PM).
UNIT III:
Extrusion Based Systems: Introduction, basic principles, Fused Deposition Modeling, Materials,
Limitations of FDM
Post Processing: Introduction, Support Material Removal, Surface Texture Improvements,
Accuracy Improvements, Aesthetic Improvements.
UNIT IV:
Software Issues for Additive Manufacturing: Introduction, Preparation of CAD Models: The
STL file, Problems with STL files, STL file manipulation, Beyond the STL file, Additional software
to assist AM
UNIT V:
AM Applications
Applications in design, Applications in Engineering Analysis and Planning
Medical Applications: Customized Implants and Prosthesis
Aerospace applications and Automotive Applications
105
Other Applications: Jewelry Industry, Coin Industry, Tableware Industry.
Text Books:
1. Ian Gibson, David W Rosen, Brent Stucker, “Additive Manufacturing Technologies: Rapid
Prototyping to Direct Digital Manufacturing”, Springer 2010.
2. Chuaa Chee Kai, Leong Kah Fai, “Rapid Prototyping: Principles & Applications”, World
Scientific, 2010.
Reference Books:
1. Ali K.Karmani, Emand Abouel Nasr, “Rapid Prototyping: Theory and Practice”, Springer
2006.
2. Andreas Gebhardt, Understanding Additive Manufacture: Rapid Prototyping, Rapid Tooling
and Rapid Manufacture, Hanser Publishers, 2013.
3. Hopkinson, N.Haque, and Dickens Rapid Manufacturing: Advanced Research in Virtual and
Rapid Prototyping, Taylor and Francis, 2007.
106
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - I 3 0 3
(5EC71) PRINCIPLES OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS
Course Objective
• To make students understand different types of communication.
• To make students understand different modulation technique
• To make students understand basics of wireless communications.
• To make students understand basics of cellular communications.
Course Outcome
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Analyze the techniques used for signal modulation and demodulation.
• Distinguish the need for PPM, PWM, Multiplexing.
• Understand the fundamental concepts of Cellular & Mobile communications
UNIT I
Introduction
Block diagram of Electrical communication system, Radio communication, Types of
communications: Analog, pulse and digital.
Analog Modulation
Need for modulation, Types of Analog modulation, Amplitude Modulation, Angle Modulation:
Frequency & Phase modulations. Generation and Demodulation techniques. Advantages of FM
over AM, Bandwidth consideration, Narrow band and Wide band FM, Comparison of FM & PM.
UNIT II
Pulse Modulations
Sampling, Nyquist rate of sampling, Sampling theorem for Band limited signals, PAM,
regeneration of base band signal, PWM and PPM, Time Divison Multiplexing, Frequency Divison
Multiplexing, Asynchronous Multiplexing.
UNIT III
Digital Communication
Advantages, Block diagram of PCM, Quantization, effect of quantization, quantization error, Base
band digital signal, DM, ADM, ADPCM and comparison. Digital Modulation : ASK, FSK, PSK,
DPSK, QPSK demodulation, offset and non-offset QPSK, coherent and incoherent reception,
Modems.
UNIT IV
Introduction to Wireless Networking
Introduction, Difference between wireless and fixed telephone networks, Development of wireless
networks, Traffic routing in wireless networks.
107
UNIT V
Cellular Mobile Radio Systems
Introduction to Cellular Mobile System, concept of frequency reuse, Performance criteria,
uniqueness of mobile radio environment, operation of cellular systems, Hexagonal shaped cells,
Analog and Digital Cellular systems. Cell splitting.
Handoffs and Dropped Calls
Handoff, dropped calls and cell splitting, types of handoff, handoff initiation, delaying handoff,
forced handoff, mobile assisted handoff, Intersystem handoff, micro cells, vehicle locating
methods, dropped call rates and their evaluation.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Communication Systems Analog and Digital – R.P. Singh and SD Sapre, TMH, 20th
reprint, 2004.
2. Wireless Communications, Principles, Practice – Theodore, S. Rappaport, 2nd Ed.,
2002,PHI.
REFERENCES
1. Wireless Communication and Networking – William Stallings, 2003, PHI.
2. Electronic Communication Systems – Kennedy and Davis, TMH, 4th edition, 2004.
3. Communication Systems Engineering – John. G. Proakis and Masoud Salehi, PHI,
2ndEd. 2004.
108
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - I 3 0 3
(5CS71) OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING THROUGH JAVA
Course Objectives
• Implement Different object-oriented Concepts in Java.
• Develop the concepts of Multi-Threading and IO-Streams
• Construct GUI models.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Write Java programs using various programming constructs using java.
• Solve different mathematical problems using OOP Paradigm
• Design and analyze the solutions for Thread and I/O management Concepts.
• Implement the Applications involving GUI models and Events.
UNIT I
Fundamentals of Object Oriented programming
Object oriented paradigm - Basic concepts of Object Oriented Programming - Benefits of OOP -
Applications of OOP
Java Evolution: Java Features - How Java differs from C and C++ - Java and Internet - Java and
World Wide Web - Web Browsers - Hardware and Software Requirements - Java Environment.
Overview of Java Language: Simple Java Program - Java Program Structure - Java Tokens- Java
Statements - Implementing a Java Program - Java Virtual Machine - Constants - Variables - Data
types - Scope of Variables-Symbolic Constants-Type Casting and type promotions – Operators,
Operator Precedence and Associativity - Control Statements – break - continue- Arrays-Multi
dimensional arrays, Wrapper Classes - Simple examples.
UNIT II
Classes
Classes and Objects - Constructors – methods - this keyword – garbage collection- finalize -
Overloading methods and constructors - Access Control- Static members – nested and inner
classes – command line arguments - variable length arguments.
Inheritance: Forms of inheritance – specialization, specification, construction, extension,
limitation, combination, benefits and costs of inheritance. Super uses- final - polymorphism,
method overriding - dynamic method dispatch –abstract classes – exploring String class.
109
UNIT III
Packages and Interface
Defining and accessing a package – understanding CLASSPATH – access protection importing
packages – Interfaces - Defining and implementing an interface, Applying interfaces, Variables in
interfaces and extended interfaces. Exploring java.lang and java.util packages.
Exception Handling-Fundamentals, usage of try, catch, multiple catch clauses, throw, throws and
finally. Java Built in Exceptions and creating own exception subclasses.
UNIT IV
Multithreaded Programming
Java Thread life cycle model – Thread creation - Thread Exceptions - Thread Priority –
Synchronization - Messaging - Runnable Interface - Interthread Communication - Deadlock -
Suspending, Resuming and stopping threads.
I/O Streams: File – Streams – Advantages - The stream classes – Byte streams – Character
streams.
UNIT V
Applet Programming
How Applets differ from Applications - Applet Life Cycle - Creating an Applet - Running the
Applet- Designing a Webpage - Applet Tag - Adding Applet to HTML file - More about Applet Tag
- Passing parameters to Applets - Aligning the display.
Event handling: basics of event handling, Event classes, Event Listeners, delegation event
model, handling mouse and keyboard events, adapter classes, AWT Class hierarchy - AWT
Controls - Layout Managers and Menus, limitations of AWT.
TEXT BOOKS
1. The Complete Reference Java J2SE 5th Edition, Herbert Schildt, TMH Publishing
Company Ltd, NewDelhi.
2. Big Java 2nd Edition, Cay Horstmann, John Wiley and Sons
REFERENCES
1. Java How to Program, Sixth Edition, H.M.Dietel and P.J.Dietel, Pearson Education/PHI
2. Core Java 2, Vol 1, Fundamentals, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell, Seventh
Edition, Pearson Education.
3. Core Java 2, Vol 2, Advanced Features, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell, Seventh
Edition, Pearson Education.
110
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech I Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - I 3 0 3
(5EI71) PRINCIPLES OF MEASUREMENT AND INSTRUMENTATION
Course Objectives
• To provide basic knowledge in transduction principles, sensors and transducer
technology and measurement systems.
• To provide better familiarity with the concepts of Sensors and Measurements.
• To provide the knowledge of various measurement methods of physical parameters like
velocity, acceleration, force, pressure and viscosity.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Able to identify suitable sensors and transducers for real time applications.
• Able to translate theoretical concepts into working models.
• Able to understand the basic of measuring device and use them in relevant situation.
UNIT I
Introduction to measurements. Physical measurement. Forms and methods of measurements.
Measurement errors. Statistical analysis of measurement data. Probability of errors. Limiting
errors.
Standards. Definition of standard units. International standards. Primary standards. Secondary
standards. Working standards. Voltage standard. Resistance standard. Current standard.
Capacitance standard. Time and frequency standards.
UNIT II
Passive Sensors
Resistive Sensors: Potentiometers, Strain Gages, Resistive Temperature Detectors
(RTDs),Thermistors, Light-dependent Resistors (LDRs), Resistive Hygrometers , Capacitive
Sensors: Variable capacitor, Differential capacitor, Inductive Sensors: Reluctance variation
sensors, Eddy current sensors
UNIT III
METROLOGY
Measurement of length – Plainness – Area – Diameter – Roughness – Angle – Comparators –
Gauge blocks. Optical Methods for length and distance measurements.
VELOCITY AND ACCELERATION MEASUREMENT
Relative velocity – Translational and Rotational velocity measurements – Revolution counters and
Timers - Magnetic and Photoelectric pulse counting stroboscopic methods.
Accelerometers- different types, Gyroscopes-applications.
111
UNIT IV
Force and Pressure Measurement
Gyroscopic Force Measurement – Vibrating wire Force transducer.
Basics of Pressure measurement –Manometer types – Force-Balance and Vibrating Cylinder
Transducers – High and Low Pressure measurement
Unit V
FLOW, Density and Viscosity Measurements
Flow Meters- Head type, Area type (Rota meter), electromagnetic type, Positive displacement
type, Density measurements – Strain Gauge load cell method – Buoyancy method.
Units of Viscosity, Two float viscorator –Industrial consistency meter
TEXT BOOKS
1. Measurement Systems – Applications and Design – by Doeblin E.O., 4/e, McGraw Hill
International, 1990.
2. Principles of Industrial Instrumentation – Patranabis D. TMH. End edition 1997
REFERENCES
1. Sensor Technology Hand Book – Jon Wilson, Newne 2004.
2. Instrument Transducers – An Introduction to their Performance and design – by Herman
K.P.Neubrat, Oxford University Press.
3. Measurement system: Applications and Design – by E.O.Doeblin, McGraw Hill Publications.
4. Electronic Instrumentation by H.S.Kalsi.
112
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective - I 3 0 3
(5IT71) CYBER SECURITY
Course Objectives:
• Identify the key components of cyber security in network
• Describe risk management processes and practices
• Define types of service delivery process and storage management process
• Access additional external resources to supplement knowledge of cyber
forensics and laws
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Categorization of cyber-crime and an understanding social, political, ethical
and psychological dimensions cyber security
• Demonstrate cyber offenses tools, methods used in cyber crime
• Document an appropriate procedure of Risk Management and Security Standards
• Understanding computer forensics and analyzing them
UNIT-I
INTRODUCTION TO CYBER CRIME: Introduction Cybercrime: Definition and Origins of the
word, Cybercrime and Information Security, Who are Cybercriminals, Classifications of
Cybercrimes, E-mail Spoofing, Spamming, Cyber defamation, Internet Time Theft, Salami
Attack/ Salami Technique, Data Diddling, Forgery, Web Jacking, Newsgroup Spam/ Crimes
Emanating from Usenet Newsgroup, Industrial Spying/Industrial Espionage, Hacking, Online
Frauds, Pornographic Offenses, Software Piracy, Computer Sabotage, E-Mail Bombing/Mail
Bombs, Usernet Newsgroup as the Source of Cybercrimes, Computer Network Intrusions,
Password Sniffing, Credit Card Frauds, Identity Theft, Cybercrime: The Legal Perspectives,
Cybercrimes: An Indian Perspective, Cybercrime and the Indian ITA 2000, Hacking and the
Indian Law(s), A Global Perspective on Cybercrimes, Cybercrime and the Extended Enterprise.
UNIT-II
CYBER OFFENSES: HOW CRIMINALS PLAN THEM: Introduction, Categories of Cybercrime,
How Criminals Plan the Attacks, Reconnaissance, Passive Attacks, Active Attacks, Scamming
and Scrutinizing Gathered Information, Attack (Gaining and Maintaining the System Access),
Social Engineering, Classification of Social Engineering, Cyber stalking, Types of Stalkers,
Cases Reported on Cyber stalking, How Stalking Works?, Real-Life Incident of Cyber stalking,
Cyber cafe and Cybercrimes, Botnets: The fuel for Cybercrime, Botnet, Attack Vector, Cloud
Computing, Why Cloud Computing?, Types of Services, Cybercrime and Cloud Computing.
UNIT-III
TOOLS AND METHODS USED IN CYBER CRIME: Introduction, Proxy Servers and
Anonymizers, Phishing, How Phishing Works, Password Cracking, Online Attacks, Offline
Attacks, Strong, Weak and Random Passwords, Random Passwords, Keyloggers and
Spywares, Software Keyloggers, Hardware Keyloggers, Antikeylogger, Spywares, Virus and
113
Worms, Types of Viruses, Trojan Horses and Backdoors, Backdoor, How to Protect from Trojan
and Backdoors, Steganography, Steganalysis, Dos and DDos Attacks, Dos Attacks,
Classification of Dos Attacks, Types of Levels of Dos Attack, Tools Used to Launch Dos
Attacks, DDos Attacks, How to protect from Dos/DDos Attacks, SQL Injection, Steps for SQL
Injection Attack, How to Prevent SQL Injection Attacks.
UNIT-IV
UNDERSTANDING COMPUTER FORENSICS: Introduction, Historical Background of Cyber
forensics, Digital Forensics Science, The Need for Computer Forensics, Cyber forensics and
Digital Evidence, The Rules of Evidence, Forensics Analysis of E-Mail, RFC2822, Digital
Forensics Life Cycle, The Digital Forensics Process, The Phases in Computer Forensics/Digital
Forensics, Precautions to be Taken when Collecting Electronic Evidence, Chain of Custody
Concept, Network Forensics, Approaching a Computer Forensics Investigation, Typical
Elements Addressed in a Forensics Investigation Engagement Contract , Solving a Computer
Forensics Case, Computer Forensics and Steganography, Rootkits, Information Hiding,
Forensics and Social Networking Sites: The Security/Privacy Threats, Challenges in Computer
Forensics, Technical Challenges: Understanding the Raw Data and its Structure, The Legal
Challenges in Computer Forensics and Data Privacy Issues, Special Tools and Techniques,
Digital Forensics Tools Ready Reckoner, Special Technique: Data Mining used in Cyber
forensics, Forensics Auditing.
UNIT-V
CYBERCRIME AND CYBERTERRORISM: SOCIAL, POLITICAL, ETHICAL and
PSYCHOLOGICAL DIMENSIONS: Introduction, Intellectual Property in the Cyberspace,
Copyright, Patent, Trademarks, Trade Secret, Trade Name, Domain Name, The Ethical
Dimension of Cybercrimes, Ethical Hackers: Good Guys in Bad Land, The Psychology, Mindset
and Skills of Hackers and Other Cybercriminals, Inside the Minds and Shoes of Hackers and
Cybercriminals, Hackers and Cybercriminals: Evolution of Technical prowess and Skills, Ethical
Hackers, Sociology of Cybercriminals, Personality Traits of Cybercriminals and Younger
Generation’s views about Hacking, Information Warfare: Perception or An Eminent Reality?,
Cyberwar Ground is HOT, Cyber Jihadist on the Rise.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Cyber Security- Understanding Cyber Crimes, Computer Forensics and Legal Perspectives
by Nina Godbole and Sunit Belpure, Publication Wiley.
REFERENCES:
1. Management of Information Security, M. E. Whitman, H. J. Mattord, Nelson Education,
CENGAGE Learning, 2011, 3rd Edition.
2. Guide to Computer Forensics and Investigations, B. Nelson, A. Phillips, F. Enfinger, C.
Steuart, Nelson Education / CENGAGE Learning, 2010, 4th Edition
114
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year, B.Tech. I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective - I 3 0 3
(5AE71) PRINCIPLES OF AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
Pre-requisites
• Physics
Course objectives:
• Understand the layout of an automobile and functionalities subsystems
• Provide overview on concepts of engine, cooling, lubrication and fuel systems
• Present constructional features and working of automotive driveline and running
systems
• Study the fundamentals and principles of automotive electrical systems.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Explain the functionalities of automotive systems and subsystems
• Give an overview on engine and engine subsystems.
• Describe working of automotive driveline and running systems
• Discuss the concepts of automotive starting, ignition and charging systems
UNIT I
Introduction
Classification of automobiles, layout of an automobile, automobile sub systems and their role.
Types of chassis, role and requirement of a chassis frame, types of frames, materials, loading
points and types of bodies.
UNIT II
Engine
Classification and components of an engine, principle and working of four stoke and two stroke SI
and CI engines. Carburetor, diesel fuel injection and introduction to electronic fuel injection
system. Cooling - Necessity of cooling, air-cooling and water cooling. Lubrication – Mist, splash
and forced system.
UNIT III
Drive Line
Clutches, principle, single plate clutch, multi plate clutch and centrifugal clutch. Gear box - Need,
sliding mesh, constant mesh and synchromesh gear box. Propeller shaft, universal joint,
differential, wheels and tyres.
115
UNIT IV
Running Systems
Suspension systems – Objective, rigid axle and independent suspension system and torsion bar.
Steering system – Layout, steering mechanism, steering geometry and steering gearboxes. Brake
system – Principle, stopping distance, types of brakes and actuation.
UNIT V
Electrical Systems
Starting system - Principle, working of different starter drive units and solenoid switches. Ignition
system - Conventional ignition system types, ignition advance and retarding mechanisms.
Charging system - Alternator principle, construction and working, cut-outs and regulators.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Heinz Heisler, “Advanced Vehicle Technology”. Butterworth Heinemann Publishers, 2002.
2. Crouse W H, “Automobile Electrical Equipment” , McGraw Hill Book Co., Inc., New York 3rd
edition,1986.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Garrett T K, Newton K. and Steeds W. “Motor Vehicle”, Butter Worths & Co. Publishers Ltd.,
New Delhi, 2001.
2. Kholi P L, “Automotive Electrical Equipment”, Tata McGraw Hill Co., Ltd., New Delhi, 1975.
3. Crouse W H, "Automotive Chassis and Body," McG raw Hill Book Co., 5th edition, 1976.
4. .Giri N K, Automotive Mechanics, Khanna Publications,2006.
116
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech. I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective - I 3 0 3
(5BS71) PROFESSIONAL ETHICS AND HUMAN VALUES
Introduction
Human values and ethics have a significant role to play in the betterment of our society. Ethics
and values are a liberating force, enabling higher performance, better quality relationships and an
expanded sense of purpose and identity.
This syllabus aims to present a framework for understanding human values and their role in life,
work, business and leadership. It aims to transform individuals from having self-focused,
survivalist mindset that has scant regard for ethics, through to compliance with laws and
conventions, and then to the aspiration to live a higher ethical and spiritual life.
It mainly focuses on improving the capacities of leadership /management through training in
human values and professional ethics. It serves to contribute to good governance in the
organizations and foster an environment that supports and encourages just practices and fair
play.
Course Objectives:
• To create an awareness on Engineering Ethics and Human Values.
• To study the moral issues and decisions confronting individuals and organizations engaged
in engineering profession.
• To study the related issues about the moral ideals, character, policies, and relationships of
people and corporations involved in technological activity.
Course Outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Learn the moral issues and problems in engineering, and find the solution to those problems
.
• Learn the need for professional ethics, codes of ethics and roles, concept of safety, risk
assessment.
• Gain exposure to Environment Ethics & computer ethics
• Know their responsibilities and rights
UNIT I : Introduction to Human Values and Ethics
Human Values: Morals, Values and Ethics – Integrity – Work Ethic – Service Learning – Civic
Virtue – Respect for Others – Living Peacefully – caring – Sharing –Honesty – Courage – Valuing
Time – Co-operation – Commitment – Empathy – Self-Confidence – Character – Spirituality.
Introduction to Ethical Concepts: Definition of industrial ethics and values, Ethical rules of
industrial worker- Values and Value Judgments -- Moral Rights and Moral rules -- Moral character
and responsibilities -- Privacy, confidentiality, Intellectual property and the law -- Ethics as law.
UNIT II: Understanding Engineering Ethics
Ethics: Action Oriented- Ethical Vision- Indian Ethos- Ethics Defined-Engineering Ethics: Various
Connotations of Engineering Ethics, Why Study Engineering Ethics?, Personal and Business
Ethics-Ethics and the Law-Senses of ‘Engineering Ethics’ – Variety of moral issues –Types of
inquiry – Moral dilemmas – Moral Autonomy – Kohlberg’s theory –Gilligan’s theory – Consensus
and Controversy – Professions and Professionalism –Professional Ideals and Virtues – Theories
about right action – Self-interest –Customs and Religion – Uses of Ethical Theories -Engineering
117
as a Profession -- Professional Societies -- Core Qualities of Professional Practitioners --
Professional Institutions, Operating in a Pluralistic Society - Environments and Their Impact -
Economic Environment -- Capital Labor-- Price Levels -- Government Fiscal and Tax Policies –
Customers – Technology
UNIT III: Engineering as Social Experimentation
Comparison with Standard Experiments, Knowledge Gained Conscientiousness, Relevant
Information, Learning from the Past, Engineers as managers, consultants, and Leaders,
Accountability, Engineers as responsible Experimenters – Codes of Ethics – A Balanced Outlook
on Law.
Engineers and Managers -- Organizational complaint procedures - Government agencies
Resolving Employee concerns – Limits on acceptable behavior in large corporations -- Ethical
and legal considerations, Organizational responses to offensive behaviour and harassment.
UNIT IV : Workplace Rights and Responsibilities
Professional Responsibility: The basis and scope of Professional Responsibility -- Professions
and Norms of Professional Conduct -- Ethical Standards versus Profession -- Culpable
mistakes -- the Autonomy of professions and codes of ethics -- Employee status and
Professionalism -- Central Professional Responsibilities of Engineers: The emerging consensus
on the Responsibility for safety among engineers, Hazards and Risks.
Safety and Risk – Assessment of Safety and Risk – Risk Benefit Analysis and reducing risk -
Ethical standards vs. Professional conduct - Collegiality and Loyalty – Respect for Authority –
Collective Bargaining –Confidentiality – Conflicts of Interest – Occupational Crime – Professional
Rights –Employee Rights – Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) – Discrimination - Organizational
complaint procedures - Government agencies -Resolving Employee concerns.
UNIT V : Ethics in Global Context & Global Issues
Global Issues: Multinational Corporations – Environmental Ethics – Computer Ethics – Weapons
Development – Engineers as Managers – Consulting Engineers – Engineers as Expert Witnesses
and Advisors – Moral Leadership – Sample Code of Ethics like ASME, ASCE, IEEE, Institution of
Engineers (India), Indian Institute of Materials Management, Institution of Electronics and
Telecommunication Engineers (IETE), India, etc.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Ethics in Engineering, Mike Martin and Roland Schinzinger, McGraw Hill. New York 1996.
2. Ethics in Engineering Practice and Research, Caroline Whitbeck, Elsevier.
3. Engineering Ethics, Govindarajan. M, Natarajan. S, Senthilkumar. V.S, Prentice Hall of India,
2004.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Ethics, Charles D Fleddermann, Prentice Hall, New Jersey, 2004 (Indian Reprint).
2. Engineering Ethics Concepts and Cases, Charles E Harris, Michael S Pritchard and Michael J
Rabins, Thompson Learning, United States, 2000 3. Ethics and the Conduct of Business,
John R Boatright, Pearson Education, New Delhi, 2003.
4. Fundamentals of Ethics for Scientists and Engineers, Edmund G Seebauer and Robert L
Barry, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2001.
5. Ethics in Engineering, Fourth Edition, Mike W. Martin, Rolan Schinzinger, Mc Graw Hill
publishers
6. Engineering Ethics-An industrial Perspective, Gail Dawn Baura
7. Ethics and Values in Industrial-Organizational Psychology, Joel Lefkowitz
118
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ECE– I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS03) ADVANCED ENGLISH COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
(Common to all Branches)
Introduction:
This course aims to offer students a practical approach to Technical Writing, and provide a
relevant, contemporary and authoritative introduction to the dynamic field of technical
communication that prepares them for Workplace Communication. Each unit in the syllabus is
devised so as to include a writing component as well as an oral component.
Course objectives
• Enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content to write business letters,
resume, SOP, Proposals and Technical Reports for academics as well as for workplace
• Enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific target audience
• Groom students to speak accurately and fluently and prepare them for real world activities
through behavioral skills.
• Train students in soft skills through role play and group discussion to improve their EQ.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Summarize and synthesize information and produce technical writing that is required in
academics as well as in the engineering profession
• Write covering letters, resume, SOP, Project Proposals and Technical Reports
• Speak fluently and address a large group of audience and participate in debates and
discussions.
• Negotiate terms, manage complex situations through interpersonal skills, persuade people
and make quick decisions.
Methodology: Writing Component
A Process- Genre methodology will be used in teaching the technical genres. This method would
enable students to understand the use of particular lexico-grammatical patterns required of in the
context of technical writing. They would learn to use language to express the particular
communicative intent that is required of in the context of writing these genres.
UNIT I
• Oral Communication :Talking About Yourself
• Applications and Covering letters
• Resume Writing
• Verbal Ability: Vocabulary (Technical and Non-Technical) reading and listening
(analysis and reasoning)
UNIT II
• Oral Communication: Making Presentations
• Writing an SOP
• Summarizing and Synthesizing Information
119
UNIT III
• Oral Communication: Group Discussions
• Writing Abstracts
UNIT IV
• Oral Communication : Debate
• Writing Reports
Unit V
• Soft Skills
TEXT BOOKS:
1 Ashraf Rizvi, M (2005). Effective Technical Communication, Tata Mc Graw Hill Publishing
Company Limited, New Delhi.
2 Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical Communication: A
Reader-Centered Approach ( 5th ed) (pp.457-473). Boston: Heinle.
3 William S. Pfeiffer, (2012) Technical Communication: A Practical Approach (7th ed.)
Longman
REFERENCES:
1 Burnett, Rebecca. Technical Communication. 5th Ed., Heinle, 2001.
2 Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson : Technical Writing Process and Product. 3rd edition,
New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
3 Markel, Mike. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies (8th ed. 2006-07)
4 R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan, Business Correspondence and Report Writing, Third Edition,
TMH, 2002. (Indian Edition)
5 M. Raman and S. Sharma, Technical Communication : Principles and Practices, OUP,
2004. (Indian Edition)
120
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EI54) LINEAR AND DIGITAL IC APPLICATIONS LABORATARY
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Course Objectives
• To demonstrate the applications of Op-Amps
• To verify the functionality of specific ICs like 555 timer, IC 565, Voltage regulators
• To verify the functions of various digital ICs
• To study and build applications with ASLKV2010 Starter Kit
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Design various applications using Analog ICs.
• Verify the functionality of digital ICs
Note: Minimum of 12 experiments have to be conducted (Min. of Four from each part).
PART 1: To Verify the following Functions.
1. Adder, Subtractor, Comparator using IC 741 OP-AMP.
2. Square Wave Generator and Triangular Wave Generator using OP-AMP.
3. RC Phase Shift & Wien Bridge Oscillators using IC 741 OP-AMP.
4. 4.bit Digital to Analog converter.
5. Schmitt Trigger circuits using IC 741 & IC 555.
6. Voltage Regulator using IC 723, Three terminal voltage regulators-7805, 7809, 7912.
PART -2: T0 Verify the Functionality of the following 74 Series TTL ICs.
7. D-Flip- Flop – (74LS74) and JK Master-Slave Flip- Flop (74LS73).
8. Decade Counter (74LS90) and UP-DOWN Counter (74LS192).
9. Universal Shift registers – 74LS194/195.
10. 3- 8 Decoder – 74LS138.
11. 4-bit COMPARATOR -74LS85.
12. 8X1 Multiplexer– 74151 and 2X4 De-multiplexer- 74155.
PART - 3: Design of the Analog Systems using Analog System Lab Starter Kit (ASLKV2010
Starter Kit).
13. Negative Feedback Amplifier and Instrumentation Amplifier.
14. Regenerative Feedback system, Astable and Monostable Multivibrator.
15. Integrators and Differentiators
16. Analog Filters
17. Low Dropout (LDO)/Linear Regulator.
121
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EC55) DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS LABORATORY
Pre-requisites
• signals and systems
Course Objectives
• To analyze various modulation techniques.
• To verify the sampling theorem.
• To study the spectral characteristics of PAM and QAM
• Develop various algorithms
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply digital modulation and demodulation techniques in real time scenario.
• Design various digital modulation and demodulation systems.
The Experiments should be software simulated and implemented through Hardware.
1. Pulse Amplitude Modulation and demodulation.
2. Pulse Width Modulation and demodulation.
3. Pulse Position Modulation and demodulation.
4. Sampling Theorem – verification.
5. Time division multiplexing.
6. Pulse code modulation.
7. Differential pulse code modulation.
8. Delta modulation.
9. Amplitude Shift Key(ASK)
10. Frequency shift keying.
11. Phase shift keying.
12. Differential phase shift keying.
13. Study of the spectral characteristics of PAM and QAM
122
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS41) BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE & IT)
Pre-requisites: Basic Knowledge of Economics
Course Objectives
• To explain different forms of organizing private and public sector business enterprises and to
analyze the significance of Business Economics in solving the problems of business enterprise.
Also to define and analyze the concepts of Demand, Elasticity of Demand and Demand
Forecasting Methods.
• To analyze the various types of costs and to determine the level of output at which there is
neither profit nor loss. To estimate capital requirements and to describe various sources of
mobilizing funds. Also to identify least cost combinations of inputs produce desired quantity of
output.
• To describe the features of different market structure and pricing strategies.
• To explain the basic accounting concepts and conventions. To elaborate the importance of
finance function for evaluating the economic status of a business unit.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Select the suitable form of business organization which meets the requirement of selected
business also perform decision – making function effectively in an uncertain frame work by
applying concepts of Managerial Economics. Meet and manipulate the demand efficiently and
plan the future course of action.
• Apply right kind cost to reduce cost by paying attention towards the costs which can be
reduced. Take decision whether to buy or produce? Reduce the cost of capital by selecting
best source of fund mobilization and select best investment opportunity which yields higher rate
of return.
• Fix the right price which can best meets the predetermined objectives of the business firm
under different market conditions. Able to select best combination of inputs to produce required
quantity of output.
• Prepare books of accounts and know over all financial position of the business enterprise which
enables the concerned to take appropriate measures to improve the situation. Also interpret the
financial position from difference angles and initiates the measures/ efforts in that direction.
UNIT I
Business and new economic environment
Characteristic features of business; Features and evaluation of sole proprietorship; Partnership;
Joint stock company; Public enterprises and their types; Changing business environment in post-
liberalization scenario.
123
UNIT II
Introduction To Business Economics And Demand Analysis
Definition; Nature and scope of managerial economics - demand analysis determinants; Law of
demand and its exceptions.
Elasticity Of Demand And Demand Forecasting
Definition; Types; Measurement and significance of elasticity of demand; Demand forecasting;
Factors governing demand forecasting; Methods of demand forecasting - Survey methods,
statistical methods, Expert opinion method, Test marketing, Controlled experiments, and
Judgmental approach to demand forecasting.
UNIT III
Cost analysis
Cost concepts - Opportunity cost, Fixed vs. Variable costs, Explicit costs vs. Implicit costs, and
Out of pocket costs vs. Imputed costs; Break-even analysis (BEA) - determination of break-even
point (simple problems), managerial significance, and limitations of BEA.
Capital and capital budgeting
Capital and its significance; Types of capital; Estimation of fixed and working capital
requirements; Methods and sources of raising finance.
Nature and scope of capital budgeting; Features of capital budgeting proposals; Methods of
capital budgeting - payback method, Accounting Rate of Return (ARR), and Net Present Value
method (simple problems)
UNIT IV
Theory of production
Production function - isoquants and isocosts, least cost combination of inputs, and laws of
returns; Internal and external economies of scale.
Market structures
Types of competition; Features of perfect competition, Monopoly, and Monopolistic competition;
Price-output determination in case of perfect competition and Monopoly.
Pricing policies and methods
Cost plus pricing; Marginal cost pricing; Sealed bid pricing; Going rate pricing, Limit pricing,
Market skimming pricing, Penetration pricing, Two-part pricing, Block pricing, Bundling pricing,
Peak load pricing, Cross subsidization.
UNIT V
Introduction to financial accounting
Double-entry book keeping; Journal; Ledger; Trial balance; Final accounts - trading account, profit
and loss account, and balance sheet with simple adjustments.
Financial Analysis through Ratios
Computation; Analysis and interpretation of liquidity ratios - current ratios, and quick ratio; Activity
ratios - Inventory Turnover ratio, and Debtor Turnover ratio; Capital structure ratios – Debt- Equity
ratio, and Interest Coverage Ratio; Profitability ratios - Gross profit Ratio, Net Profit Ratio,
Operating Ratio, P/E ratio, and EPs.
124
TEXT BOOKS
1) Managerial Economics and Financial Analysis by Aryasri, Tata McGraw Hill, 2009.
2) Managerial Economics by Varshney & Maheswari, Sultan Chand, 2009
REFERENCES
1. Financial Accounting for Management: An analytical perspective by Ambrish Gupta, Pearson
Education, 2010.
2. Managerial Economics by H. Craig Peterson & W. Cris Lewis, Prentice Hall of India.
125
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EC09) MICROPROCESSORS AND MICROCONTROLLERS
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites
• Digital fundamentals, Computer Organization
Course Objectives
• To understand characteristics and architectures of various microprocessors and
microcontrollers.
• Understand basic programming concepts and software development tools
• Learn various interfacing techniques necessary for building applications as per the
design requirements
• to gain in-depth knowledge so as to apply the concepts for developing real- time
applications
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the architecture of microprocessor/ microcontroller and their
operation
• Demonstrate programming skills in assembly language for processors and
Controllers
• Analyze various interfacing techniques and apply them for the design of
processor/ controller based systems
UNIT I
Introduction to 8085 Microprocessor, Architecture of 8086 Microprocessor, Addressing modes of
8086, Instruction set of 8086, Assembler directives, simple assembly language programs,
procedures, and macros. Pin diagram of 8086-Minimum mode and maximum mode of operation.
UNIT II
Memory and I/O organization of 8086, 8255 PPI – various modes of operation and interfacing to
8086, D/A and A/D converter to 8086 using 8255, memory interfacing to 8086.
UNIT III
Serial Communication standards, serial data transfer schemes, 8251 USART architecture and
interfacing, RS-232, IEEE 488 standards. Interrupt structure of 8086, Interrupt Vector Table.
Need for 8259 Programmable Interrupt Controller.
126
UNIT IV
Introduction to Microcontrollers, 8051 Microcontroller Architecture, I/O ports, memory
organization, counters and Timers, Serial data Input/Output, Interrupts. Addressing modes,
Instruction set of 8051, Simple programs.
Timer, serial port and Interrupts programming: Programming 8051 timers/counters, 8051
serial port programming, programming timer interrupts, programming External hardware
interrupts, programming serial communication interrupts.
UNIT V
Interfacing to 8051: A/D and D/A Converter, Stepper Motor Interface, Key Board Interfacing,
LCD Interfacing.
ARM Processor: Fundamentals, Registers, current program status register, pipeline, Exceptions,
Interrupt and the vector table.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Microprocessors and interfacing – Douglas V. Hall, TMH, 2nd Edition, 1999.
2. The 8051 microcontrollers and Embedded systems- Mazidi and mazidi, PHI, 2000.
REFERENCES
1. ARM System Developer’s Guide: Designing and Optimizing System Software- Andrew N.
Sloss, Dominic Symes, Chris Wright, Elsevier Inc., 2007
2. Micro computer systems, The 8086/8088 Family Architecture, Programming and Design
– Y.Liu and G.A. Gibson, PHI, 2nd edition.
3. Advanced microprocessors and Peripherals – A.K.Ray and K.M.Bhurchandi, TMH, 2000.
4. Microcontrollers and Applications, Ajay . V. Deshmukh, TMGH,2005.
5. The 8085 Microprocessor : Architecture Programming and Interfacing – K.Uday Kumar,
B.S Umashankar, Pearson , 2008.
127
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5EC10) DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites
• Signals and systems
Course Objectives
• To understand characteristics of discrete time signals and systems
• To analyze and process signals using various transform techniques
• To understand various factors involved in design of digital filters and role of
Multi rate Signal Processing.
• To understand the effects of finite word length implementation.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Analyze and process signals in the discrete domain and transform domain
• Design filters to suit specific applications
• Design multi rate systems and represent numbers in digital senario.
UNIT I
Introduction
Introduction to Digital Signal Processing. Applications of Z-Transforms : Solution of Linear
constant coefficient difference equations, Block diagram representation of LCCD equations.
System function, Frequency domain representation of discrete time signals and systems.
Discrete Fourier series
DFS representation of periodic sequences, Relation between Z-transform and DFS.
UNIT II
Discrete Fourier Transforms
Properties of DFT, linear convolution of sequences using DFT, Computation of DFT.
Fast Fourier Transforms
Radix-2 decimation in time and decimation in frequency FFT Algorithms, Inverse FFT.
UNIT III
IIR Digital Filters
Analog filter approximations- Butterworth and Chebyshev , comparison of Butterworth and
Chebyshev filters. Design of IIR Digital filters from analog filters, Step and Impulse invariance
transformation techniques, Bilinear transformation method. Spectral transformations (Analog to
Analog).
128
Realization of IIR Filters
Direct, Canonic, Cascade, Parallel, Lattice and Ladder forms.
UNIT - IV
FIR Digital Filters
Characteristics of linear phase FIR filters and its frequency response. Comparison of IIR and FIR
filters.
Design of FIR filters
Fourier Method, Frequency Sampling method and windowing methods: Rectangular window,
Hanning window, Hamming window, Bartlett window and Kaiser window.
Realization of FIR Filters
Direct form, cascade realization and Linear phase Realization.
UNIT V
Multirate Digital Signal Processing
Introduction, Down sampling, Decimation, Up sampling, Interpolation, sampling rate conversion,
Implementation of sampling rate conversion, Applications of Multirate Signal Processing.
Finite Word Length Effects
Limit cycles, Overflow oscillations, Round-off noise in IIR digital filters , Computational output
round off noise, Methods to prevent overflow.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Digital Signal Processing: Principles, Algorithms and Applications – John G.Proakis,
D.G.Manolakis, 4th Edition, Perason/PHI, 2009.
2. Digital Signal Processing – A Pratical Approach – Emmanuel C.Ifeacher, Barrie. W.
Jervis, 2nd Edition, Pearson Education, 2009.
REFERENCES
1. Discrete Time Signal Processing – A.V.Oppenheim and R.W. Schaffer, PHI, 2009
2. Digital Signal Processing- Fundamentals and Applications – Li Tan, Elsevier, 2008.
3. Fundamentals of Digital signal Processing using MatLab- Robert J.Schilling, Sandra
L.Harris,Thomson , 2007.
4. Digital Signal Processing – S.Salivahanan, A.Vallavaraj, C.Gnanapriya,TMH, 2009.
5. Fundamentals of Digital Signal Processing - Loney Ludeman, John Wiley,2009.
129
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EC11) MICROWAVE ENGINEERING
Pre-requisites
• Electro Magnetic theory and Transmission lines
Course Objectives
• To present a cohesive overview of the required fundamentals on Transmission lines and
Wave Propagation Theory in the case of Wave guides.
• To understand various coupling techniques in waveguides and the basic properties of
Polarization in Ferrite based materials in the case of waveguide components.
• To introduce the multiport junction concept for splitting the microwave energy in a desired
direction.
• To get exposure on Microwave components in building a Microwave test bench setup for
measurements.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the basics of wave propagation inside waveguides
• Illustrate the functioning of microwave components and Junctions.
• Classify various microwave sources and measure the microwave parameters.
UNIT I
Microwave Transmission Lines
Introduction, Microwave Spectrum and Bands, Applications of Microwaves.
Rectangular Waveguides: Solution of Wave Equations in Rectangular coordinates. TE/TM mode
Analysis, Expression for fields, Characteristic Equation and Cut-off Frequencies. Filter
characteristics, Dominant and Degenerate Modes, Mode Characteristics: Phase and Group
Velocities, Wavelengths and Impedance Relations. Power Transmission and Power Losses in
Rectangular Waveguides.
Microstrip Lines- Introduction, Z Relations, Effective Dielectric Constant, Q Factor and Losses.
0
Illustrative Problems
UNIT II
Waveguide components-I
Cavity Resonators: Introduction, Rectangular Cavities, Dominant Modes and Resonant
Frequencies, Q factor and Coupling Coefficients, Illustrative Problems.
Coupling Mechanisms: Probe, Loop, Aperture types.
Waveguide Discontinuities: Waveguide Windows, Tuning Screws and Posts, Matched Loads.
Waveguide Attenuators: Different types, Resistive Card and Rotary vane Attenuators;
Waveguide Phase shifters: Types, Dielectric and Rotary vane Phase shifters.
130
UNIT III
Waveguide components-II
Ferrite materials –Composition and Characteristics, Faraday Rotation, Ferrite Components -
Isolator, Circulator, Gyrator.
Scattering Matrix: Significance, Scattering Parameters, Formulation and Properties of S Matrix.
Waveguide Multiport Junctions: E- plane, H-Plane and Magic Tee; Directional coupler –two
hole, Bethe Hole types. S matrix calculations of Two port and Multiport Junctions.
UNIT IV
Microwave Tubes: Limitations of Conventional tubes at Microwave frequencies, Microwave
Tubes- Classifications, 2 cavity Klystrons –Structure, Velocity Modulation process and Applegate
diagram, Bunching process, Power output and efficiency. Reflex Klystrons-Structure, Velocity
Modulation, Applegate diagram and Principle of Working, Mode Characteristics, Power Output
and Efficiency, Oscillating Modes and output characteristics.
Traveling Wave tubes: Significance, Types of Slow wave structures, Amplification Process, Gain
considerations (Qualitative analysis only)
Microwave crossed field tubes: Classification, Cylindrical Magnetron-Structure and
characteristics, PI mode operation. Illustrative problems.
UNIT V
Microwave Solid State Devices
Transferred Electronic Devices: Introduction, Gunn Diode-Principle, Two valley theory, High field
domain, Basic modes of operation. Avalanche transit time devices: Introduction, Avalanche
multiplication. IMPATT, TRAPATT -Principle of Operation.
Microwave Measurements
Description of Microwave Bench – Different Blocks and their Features, Microwave power
measurement- Bolometer Method. Measurement of Attenuation, Frequency, VSWR and
Impedance Measurements.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Microwave Devices and Circuits – by Samuel Y. Liao, Pearson,3rd Edition,2003
2. Microwave and Radar Engineering by M. Kulkarni, 5/e, Umesh Pulications, 2003
REFERENCES
1. Microwave Circuits and Passive Devices – M.L. Sisodia and G.S.Raghuvanshi, Wiley
Eastern Ltd., New age International PublishersLtd., 1995.
2. Microwave Engineering Passive Circuits – Peter A. Rizzi, PHI, 1999.
3. Microwave Engineering – A.Das and S.K.Das, TMH, 2nd Edition, 2009.
4. Microwave Principles – Herbert J. Reich, J.G. Skalnik, P.F. Ordung and H.L. Krauss,
CBS Publishers and distributors, New Delhi, 2004.
5. Foundations for Microwave Engineering – R.E. Collin, IEEE Press, John Wiley, 2nd
Edition, 2002.
131
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EI20 ) ELECTRONIC MEASUREMENTS AND INSTRUMENTATION
Pre-requisites
• Operational Amplifier Concepts
Course Objectives
• Develop an awareness to various electronic measurement Concepts
• Explain the operation and design of different electronic instruments
• Compare different ADC and DAC techniques and explain various circuits for conversion.
• Explain the operations of frequency and time measuring instruments and transducers.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Measure electrical, Mechanical and electronics parameters using instrumentation
techniques.
• Learn different types of CRO’s and bridges to measure resistance, capacitance and
inductance.
• Design real time applications using transducers.
UNIT I
Performance characteristics of instruments, static characteristics, Accuracy, Resolution,
Precision, Expected value, Errors, Sensitivity. Errors in measurement , Dynamic Characteristics ,
DC voltmeters. D’Arsonval Movement, DC Current meters, AC volt meters and Current Meters,
Range Extension /solid state and Differential voltmeters ,AC voltmeters, Multirange extension ,
Thermocouple type RF ammeter , ohmmeter series type , shunt type , Specifications and design
consideration of different types of Digital Voltmeters ( DVMs ) - Staircase Ramp- type DVM, Dual
Slope integrating type DVM, Successive Approximation Type DVM.
UNIT II
Signal generators-Fixed and variable , AF oscillators , Standard and AF sine and square wave
signal generators , Function Generators ,Square , pulse generator , Signal Analyzer, Logic
Analyzer, Network Analyzer, Random noise generator, sweep generator , arbitrary waveform
generator Wave analyzers , harmonic distortion wave analyzer , spectrum analyzers Frequency
counter , time and period measurement.
132
UNIT III
Oscilloscopes- CRT Features, vertical amplifiers, Horizontal deflection system, sweep, trigger
pulse, delay line, sync selector circuits ,simple CRO, Trigger sweep CRO, dual beam CRO , Dual
trace oscilloscope, sampling oscilloscope ,storage oscilloscope, measurement of amplitude and
frequency, probes for CRO-active and passive , CRO Specifications, High Frequency CRO‘s.
UNIT IV
DC bridges- Wheatstone’s bridge, Kelvin’s bridge, AC bridges-measurement of inductance-
Maxwell’s bridge, Hay’s bridge, measurement of capacitance, Schering bridge, Wien bridge,
errors and precautions in using bridges, Q-meter, different connections in Q- meter.
UNIT V
Transducers-active and passive transducers-Resistance transducers , Capacitance transducers,
inductance transducers, Strain gauges transducers, LVDT transducers, Piezo electric
transducers, Resistance thermometers, Thermocouples, Measurement of physical parameters-
flow measurement, liquid level measurement , data acquisition systems.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Electronic Instrumentation, - H.S.Kalsi, 2nd Edition ,Tata McGraw Hill, 2004.
3. Modern Electronic Instrumentation and Measurement Techniques- A.D.Helfrick and
W.D. Cooper, 5thEdition ,PHI, 2002.
REFERENCES
1. Transducers and display systems - B.S.Sonde
2. Electronic measurements and Instrumentation – B. M. Oliver and J.M. Cage, TMH,
2009.
3. Electrical and Electronic measurements - Shawney, Khanna Publications.
4. Introduction to Instrumentation and measurements - Robert Northrop ( CRC press)
5. Electronic Measurements and Instrumentation - K.Lal Kishore, Pearson Education, 2005
133
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5CE72) INTRODUCTION TO GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM
Course Objectives
Student shall be able
• To describe and define various concepts of Remote Sensing and GIS.
• To enable the students to analyze data using GIS.
• To make the students appraise the importance of accuracy in GIS.
• To enable the students to apply GIS knowledge in solving various problems in
real world scenario.
Course Outcomes
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• At the end of the course student should be able todescribe different concepts
and terms used in GIS
• At the end of the course student should be able tocompare and process
different data sets
• At the end of the course student should be able toevaluate the accuracy and
decide whether a data set can be used or not.
• Students will be able demonstrate various applications GIS.
UNIT- I:
Introduction to GIS: Introduction, History of GIS, GIS Components, GIS Applications in Real
life, The Nature of geographic data, Maps, Types of maps, Map scale, Types of scale, Map and
Globe, Co-ordinate systems, Map projections, Map transformation, Geo-referencing,
UNIT- II:
Spatial Database Management System: Introduction: Spatial DBMS, Data storage, Database
structure models, database management system, entity-relationship model, normalization
Data models and data structures: Introduction, GIS Data model, vector data structure, raster
data structure, attribute data, geo-database and metadata,
UNIT- III:
Spatial Data input and Editing: Data input methods – keyboard entry, digitization, scanning,
conversion of existing data, remotely sensed data, errors in data input, Data accuracy, Micro and
Macro components of accuracy, sources of error in GIS.
Spatial Analysis: Introduction, topology, spatial analysis, vector data analysis, Network analysis,
raster data analysis, Spatial data interpolation techniques
UNIT- IV: Implementing a GIS and Advanced GIS
Implementing a GIS: Awareness, developing system requirements, evaluation of alternative
systems, decision making using GIS
Advanced GIS: WebGIS concept, webGIS fundamentals, Potential of web GIS, Server side
strategies, client side strategies, mixed strategies, webGIS applications
134
UNIT- V:
Applications of GIS
GIS based road network planning, Shortest path detection using GIS, Hazard Zonation using
remote sensing and GIS, GIS for solving multi criteria problems, GIS for business applications,
Mineral mapping using GIS.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Geographic Information systems by Kang-tsung Chang, McGrawHill
Education (Indian Edition), 7th Edition, 2015.
2. Fundamentals of Geographic Information systems by Michael N. Demers, 4th Edition,
Wiley Publishers, 2012.
REFERENCES
1. Remote Sensing and GIS by Basudeb Bhatta, Oxford University Press, 2nd Revised
Edition, 2011.
2. Textbook of Remote Sensing and Geographical Information systems by M.Anji Reddy,
B.S.Publications, 4th Edition, 2012.
3. Textbook of Remote Sensing and Geographical Information systems by Kali Charan
Sahu, Atlantic Publishers and Distributors, 1st Edition, 2007.
4. Geographic Information systems – An Introduction by Tor Bernhardsen, Wiley
India Publication, 3rd Edition, 2010.
135
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5EE72) ENERGY AUDITING CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives
• To understand the necessity of conservation of Energy.
• To Know the methods of Energy management .
• To identity the factors to increase the efficiency of electrical equipment.
• To know the benefits of carrying out energy Audits.
Course Outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• To conduct Energy Audit of industries.
• To manage energy Systems
• To specify the methods of improving efficiency of electric motor.
• To improve power factor and to design a good illumination system
• To calculate pay back periods for energy saving equipment.
UNIT I Basic Principles of Energy audit
Energy audit- definitions, concept , types of audit, energy index, cost index ,pie charts, Sankey
diagrams, load profiles, Energy conservation schemes- Energy audit of industries- energy saving
potential, energy audit of process industry, thermal power station, building energy audit
UNIT II Energy management
Principles of energy management, organizing energy management program, initiating, planning,
controlling, promoting, monitoring, reporting- Energy manager, Qualities and functions, language,
Questionnaire - check list for top management
UNIT III Energy efficient Motors
Energy efficient motors, factors affecting efficiency, loss distribution, constructional details,
characteristics - variable speed, variable duty cycle systems, RMS hp- voltage variation-voltage
unbalance- over motoring- motor energy audit
UNIT IV Power Factor Improvement, Lighting and energy instruments
Power factor – methods of improvement, location of capacitors, p.f with non-linear loads, effect of
harmonics on p.f. , p.f motor controllers - Good lighting system design and practice, lighting
control, lighting energy audit - Energy Instruments- watt meter, data loggers, thermocouples,
pyrometers, flux meters, tongue testers ,application of PLC’s
UNIT V Economic aspects and analysis
Economics Analysis-Depreciation Methods, time value of money, rate of return, present worth
method, replacement analysis, life cycle costing analysis- Energy efficient motors- calculation of
136
simple payback method, net present worth method- Power factor correction, lighting -
Applications of life cycle costing analysis, return on investment.
TEXT BOOKS
1) Energy management by W.R. Murphy & G. Mckay Butter worth, Heinemann publications.
2) Energy management by Paul o’ Callaghan, Mc-graw Hill Book company-1st edition, 1998
REFERENCES:
1) Energy efficient electric motors by John .C. Andreas, Marcel Dekker Inc Ltd-2nd edition,
1995-
2) Energy management handbook by W.C.Turner, John wiley and sons
3) Energy management and good lighting practice: fuel efficiency- booklet12-EEO
137
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5ME72) OPTIMIZATION TECHNIQUES
Course Prerequisites
• Mathematics, Operation Research
Course Objectives
• To understand the classification of optimization techniques and its practical use.
• To understand about the optimization of one dimensional optimization methods.
• To knows about constrained minimization methods.
• To understand Geometric and dynamic programming.
Learning Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply the different types of optimization techniques for different purposes.
• Formulates and solve the problems by using one dimensional unconstrained
minimization methods.
• Formulates and solve the problems (industrial/research) by using the geometric
programming.
• Formulate and solve the industrial problems by using the dynamic programming
methods.
UNIT I
Introduction
Engineering Applications; Statement of the Optimal Problem: Classification; Optimization
Techniques. Classical Methods: Single Variable Optimization; Multivariable Optimization without
any Constraints with Equality and Inequality Constraints.
UNIT II
One-Dimensional Minimization Methods
Uni-model Function; Elimination Methods – Dichotomous Search, Fibonacce and Golden Section
Methods; Interpolation Methods – Quadratic and Cubic Interpolation Methods.
UNIT III
Unconstrained Minimization Methods: Univariate, Conjugate Directions, Gradient and
Variable Metric
Methods. Constrained Minimization Methods: Characteristics of a constrained problem; Direct
Methods of feasible directions; Indirect Methods of interior and exterior penalty functions.
UNIT IV
Geometric Programming
Formulation and Solutions of Unconstrained and Constrained geometric programming problems.
138
UNIT V
Dynamic Programming
Concept of Sub-optimization and the principle of optimality; Calculus, Tabular and Computational
Methods in Dynamic Programming; An Introduction to Continuous Dynamic Programming.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Optimization (Theory & Applications) – S.S. Rao, Wiley Eastern Ltd., New Delhi.
2. Optimization Concepts and Applications in Engineering - Ashok D.Belegundu and Tirupathi
R Chandrupatla -- Pearson Education.
REFERENCES
1. Optimization: Theory and Practice, C.S.G. Beveridge and R.S. Schechter, MGH, New York.
2. Genetic Algorithms in search, Optimization and Machine, Goldberg D. E., Addison-Wesley-
NewYork.
3. Optimization for Engineering Design Algorithms and Examples, Kalyanamoy Deb, Prentice
Hall of India.
139
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5EC72) INTRODUCTION TO MICRO PROCESSORS AND CONTROLLERS
Course Objectives:
• Differentiate various number systems
• Develop simple application using 8085 microprocessors
• Develop simple applications using 8051 microcontrollers
Course outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand basic computing concepts
• Know architecture of 8085 micro processors and 8051 Microcontrollers
• Interface peripherals to microprocessor
• Program internal resources of 8051 microcontroller
UNIT I
Introduction to Computing
Numbering and Coding Systems: Binary, Decimal, Hexadecimal and conversions, Binary and
Hexadecimal Arithmetic, Complements, Alphanumeric codes. Digital Premier, Inside the
Computer
UNIT II
8085 Microprocessor
Features, Architecture and operation of 8085, Programming Model, External Memory for 8085
UNIT III
Programmable Peripheral Devices
Programmable Peripheral Interface (8255), USART (8251), Programmable Interval Timer (8253)
and interfacing.
UNIT IV
8051 Microcontrollers
Microcontrollers and Embedded Processors, Overview of the 8051 family, Architecture and
Programming Model of 8051, Timers and Counters, parallel and serial ports, Interrupts, Special
Function Register formats, Internal Memory Organization
UNIT V
Applications
8051 Programming in C: Data types for the 8051, programs for IO operations, programs on Timer
operations, Serial IO ports, and interrupts, Case Study: DC Motor Control
140
TEXT BOOKS
1. Microprocessor Architecture, Programming and Applications with the 8085/8080A,
Gaonkar
2. The 8051 Microcontroller and Embedded Systems: Using Assembly and C, 2nd
Edition, Muhammad Ali Mazidi,Janice Gillispie Mazidi, Rolin D. McKinlay
REFERENCES
1. The 8051 Microcontroller : programming, architecture by Ayala & Gadre, Cengage
Publications
2. Digital Design – Morris Mano, PHI, 3rd Edition, 2006.
141
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5EC95) WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS AND NETWORKS
Prerequisite: Computer Networks
Course Objectives:
• Understand fundamentals of wireless communications
• Know basics of wireless networks
• Differentiate fixed IP and Mobile IP
• Learn design of basic wireless LAN network
Course outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the fundamental concepts of Cellular communications
• Differentiate various multiple access techniques
• Learn wireless protocols used in wireless Networks
• Understand mobile IP requirements
UNIT I
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS & SYSTEM FUNDAMENTALS:
Introduction to wireless communications systems, examples, comparisons & trends. Cellular concepts-
frequency reuse, strategies, interference & system capacity, trunking and grade of service, improving
coverage &capacity in cellular systems.
UNIT II
MULTIPLE ACCESS TECHNIQUES FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATION:
FDMA, TDMA, SSMA (FHMA/CDMA/Hybrid techniques), SDMA technique (AS applicable to wireless
communications). Packet radio access-protocols, CSMA protocols ,reservation protocols ,capture effect
in packet radio , capacity of cellular systems .
UNIT III
WIRELESS NETWORKING:
Introduction, differences in wireless & fixed telephone networks, traffic routing in wireless networks –
circuit switching, packet switching X.25 protocol. Wireless data services – cellular digital packet data
(CDPD), advanced radio data information systems, RAM mobile data (RMD). Common channel
signaling (CCS), ISDN-Broad band ISDN & ATM, Signalling System no .7(SS7)-protocols, network
services part, user part, signaling traffic, services and performance.
142
UNIT IV
MOBILE IP AND WIRELESS APPLICATION PROTOCOL:
Mobile IP Operation of mobile IP, Co-located address, Registration, Tunneling, WAP Architecture,
overview, WML scripts, WAP service, WAP session protocol, wireless transaction, Wireless datagram
protocol.
UNIT V
WIRELESS LAN TECHNOLOGY:
Infrared LANs, Spread spectrum LANs, Narrow bank microwave LANs, IEEE 802 protocol Architecture,
IEEE802 architecture and services, 802.11 medium access control, 802.11 physical layer.
BLUE TOOTH: Overview, Radio specification, Base band specification, Links manager Specification,
Logical link control and adaptation protocol. Introduction to WLL Technology.
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Wireless Communication and Networking – William Stallings, PHI, 2003.
2. Wireless Communications, Principles, Practice – Theodore, S. Rappaport, PHI, 2nd Edn.,2002.
3. Principles of Wireless Networks – Kaveh Pah Laven and P. Krishna Murthy,Pearson Education, 2002.
REFERENCES:
1. Wireless Digital Communications – Kamilo Feher, PHI, 1999Page 26 of 38
143
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5CS72) OPEN SOURCE TECHNOLOGIES
Course Objectives
• Understand Perl, Python, PHP and Ruby to new situations and learn from the experience.
• Assist Perl programmer or database administrator to compile large programming set.
• Incorporate PHP into HTML files, Write basic PHP scripts, Process form input, Write and use
functions.
• Apply advanced techniques, tools, and methodologies that can be used to build complex,
scalable, PHP applications.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply regular expressions to tokenize and validate data in a variety of languages
• Utilize Ruby to solve a wide range of text processing problems
• Understand the nuances and differences in a web based environment as compared to
more traditional environments
• Distinguish variety of languages to develop interactive web applications
UNIT I
Introduction to PERL
Scripts and Programs, Origin of Scripting, Scripting Today, Characteristics of Scripting
Languages, Web Scripting, and the universe of Scripting Languages. PERL- Names and Values,
Variables, Scalar Expressions, Control Structures, arrays, list, hashes, strings, pattern and
regular expressions, subroutines, advance Perl - finer points of looping, pack and unpack, file
system, eval, data structures, packages, modules, objects, interfacing to the operating system,
Creating Internet ware applications, Dirty Hands Internet Programming, security Issues.
UNIT II
PHP Basics
PHP Basics- Features Embedding PHP Code in your Web pages, Outputting the data to the
browser, Data types, Variables, Constants, expressions, string interpolation, control structures .
Function, Creating a Function, Function Libraries, Arrays, strings and Regular Expressions.
UNIT III
Advanced PHP Programming
PHP and Web Forms, Files, PHI3 Authentication and Methodologies -Hard Coded, File Based,
Database Based, IP Based, Login Administration, Uploading Files with PHI3, Sending Email
using PHP, PHI3Encryption Functions, the Merypt package, Building Web sites for the World -
Translating Websites- Updating Web sites Scripts, Creating the Localization Repository,
Translating Files, text. Generate Binary Files, Set the desired language within your scripts.
Localizing Dates, Numbers and Times.
144
UNIT IV
Python
Introduction to Python language, python-syntax,statements,functions,Built-in-functions and
Methods, Modules in python, Exception Handling, Integrated Web Applications in Python -
Building Small, Efficient Python Web Systems ,Web Application Framework.
UNIT V
Ruby
Basics of Ruby,classes,objects and variable,arrays,Exception Handling ,threads,Regular
Expressions,Strings,Objects in Ruby
TEXT BOOKS
1. Programming Perl Larry Wall, T.Christiansen and J.Orwant, O’Reiily,SPD.
2. Guide to Programming with Python, M.Dawson, Cengage Learning.
3. The Ruby Programming Language 1st Edition by David Flanagan
4. Professional PHP Programming by Jesus M. Castagnetto , Harish Rawat , Deepak T.
Veliath (WROX publication)
REFERENCES
1. Perl Power, J.P.Flynt, Cengage Learning.
2. Perl by Example, E, QuigIey, Pearson Education.
3. Programming Ruby: The Pragmatic Programmer's Guide, by Pragmatic Dave
Thomas, Andy Thomas
4. Professional PHP6 by WROX publication
145
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5EI72) LabVIEW PROGRAMMING
Course Objective
• Understand the new concept in measurement and automation.
• Understand how to control an external measuring device by interfacing a computer.
• Competent in data acquisition and instrument control.
• Program for networking and other applications like Digital image processing control
system and signal processing.
Course Outcome
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Develop a Virtual Instrument using LabVIEW to communicate with real world.
• Identify salient traits of a virtual instrument and incorporate these traits in their projects.
• Experiment, analyze and document in the laboratory prototype measurement
• Develop program for application like networking, Digital image processing ,control
system, etc
UNIT I
Virtual Instrumentation
Historical perspective, advantages, block diagram and architecture of a virtual instrument, data-
flow techniques, graphical programming in data flow, comparison with conventional programming.
Development of Virtual Instrument using GUI, Active X Programming.
UNIT II
Structures and sequence
Controlling program execution with structures: While and For loops, Shift registers, Case and
Sequence structure and Sub VI
UNIT III
Composite Data and Displays
Arrays and Structures: Two dimension array, Auto Indexing to set the for loop count, Building
arrays with auto indexing, Array Acrobats, Polymorphism, Cluster Order, Cluster to pass data,
Bundling and unbundling cluster, Interchangeable arrays and cluster , Error Cluster and Error
handling functions:
Chart update modes, Single Plot chart, Wiring multiple plot chart, Single Plot verus Multiple plot
data types, The X scroll bar, clearing the chart, Stacked and overlaid plots, Multiple Y scales and
chart history lengths.: Activity: Temperature monitor, Graphing a sine wave, XY plot to plot a
circle, Temperature analysis and 3D graphs.
146
UNIT IV
Strings, File output and Signal Measurements and generation
Single line strings, online string updation, Scroll bar, Writing and reading a measurement
file,Writing and reading from a spread sheet,Computer to real world interface using LabVIEW,
Creating Ni DAQ Task in Measurement and Automation Explorer (MAX), Generating code from
MAX, DAQ timing and trigger, Multichannel and continuous acquisition, Streaming Data file and
Counting frequency and events.VI Chassis requirements. Common Instrument Interfaces: Current
loop, RS 232C/ RS485,
GPIB.
UNIT V
Applications
Networking basics for office & Industrial applications, VISA and IVI, VI toolsets, Distributed I/O
modules, Development of Control system, Industrial Communication,
Image acquisition and processing
TEXT BOOKS
1. Gary Johnson, LabVIEW Graphical Programming, 2nd edition,McGraw Hill, Newyork,
1997.
2. Lisa K. wells & Jeffrey Travis, LabVIEW for everyone, Prentice Hall, New Jersey, 1997.
REFERENCES
1. Kevin James, PC Interfacing and Data Acquisition: Techniques for Measurement,
Instrumentation and Control, Newnes,2000.
147
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5EI79) FUNDAMENTALS OF ROBOTICS
Course Objectives
The course is intended for students to:
· Understand the Robot coordinate system and control system
· Learn different types of Robot sensors and actuators
· Identify different types of Robot grippers and their applications.
· Acquire Knowledge on kinematics and vision systems used for different Robots
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
· Gain knowledge about basic concepts of robots.
· Appreciate the usage of different actuators, sensors and grippers in Robotics.
· Analyze the direct and the inverse kinematic problems.
· Able to identify the applications of Machine Vision in Robotics.
UNIT I:
Basic Concepts:
An over view of Robotics, classification of Robots, Robot Components, Robot degrees of freedom,
Robot Joints, Robot Coordinates, Robot reference frames, Programming modes, Robot Characteristics.
UNIT II:
Sensors:
Sensor characteristics, Position sensors, Velocity sensors, Acceleration sensors, Force and Pressure
sensors, Torque sensors, Microswitches, Light and infrared sensors, Touch and tactile sensors,
Proximity sensors, Range finders.
Unit III:
Actuators and Grippers:
Characteristics of actuating system, Comparison of actuating systems, Hydraulic actuators, Pneumatic
devices, Electric motors, Magneto-strictive actuators, Shape-Memory Metals, Electro-active Polymer
Actuators.
Classification of Grippers, Drive system for Grippers, Mechanical Grippers, Magnetic Grippers, Vacuum
Grippers, Adhesive Grippers, Hooks and Scoops, Gripper Force analysis and design, Active and
Passive Grippers.
UNIT IV:
Kinematics:
Robots as Mechanisms, Matrix Representation, Homogeneous Transformation Matrices,
Representation of Transformations, Inverse of Transformation Matrices, Forward and Inverse
Kinematics with Equations.
148
UNIT V:
Vision:
Image acquisition, Illumination Techniques, Imaging Geometry, Basic Relationships between Pixels,
Segmentation, Description, Segmentation and Description of 3-D Structures, Recognition, Interpretation.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Saeed B. Niku ,Introduction To Robotics : Analysis, Control, Applications ,Wiley, 2nd Edition .
2. Deb.S.R, ”Robotics technology and flexible Automation”, John Wiley
REFERENCES
1. Mikell P Groover, Nicholas G Odrey, Mitchel Weiss, Roger N Nagel, Ashish Dutta,
“Industrial Robotics, Technology programming and Applications", McGraw Hill, 2012.
2. K.S.Fu, R.C.Gonzalez, C.S.G Lee, “Robotics- Control ,Sensing ,Vision and Intelligence
”,McGraw-Hill International Edition.
3. Klafter. R.D, Chimielewski. T.A, Negin. M, “Robotic Engineering–An integrated approach”,
Prentice Hall of India, New Delhi
149
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5IT72) RELATIONAL DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Course Objectives:
• To describe database management systems (DBMS) concepts and relational data
model.
• To employ DBMS concepts to organize, maintain and retrieve information efficiently and
effectively from a DBMS.
• To discuss the concepts of transactions and transaction processing systems
• To examine the issues and techniques relating to concurrency and recovery in multi-
user database environments
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Describe the fundamental concepts of database management. These concepts include
aspects of database design, database languages, and database-system
implementation.
• Employ the Relational Database Model to understand the Logical and Physical aspects
of the DBMS architecture.
• Analyse and apply normal forms for real time database applications.
• Evaluation of transaction properties and file organization methods
UNIT I
Introduction to Databases and Database Management System - Database system Applications -
Advantages of DBMS over File System - Data Models – Instances and schema - View of Data -
Database Languages -DDL-DML - Database Users and Administrator - Database System
Structure.
UNIT II
Database Design and ER diagrams – Attributes and Entity Sets – Relationships and Relationship
Sets – Constraints - Keys - Design Issues - Entity-Relationship Diagram- Weak Entity Sets -
Extended E-R Features - Database Design with ER model - Database Design for Banking
Enterprise
UNIT III
Introduction to the Relational Model – Structure of RDBMS - Integrity Constraints over Relations
– Enforcing Integrity Constraints – Querying Relational Data - Relational Algebra and Calculus.
Introduction to SQL- Data Definition commands, Data Manipulation Commands, Basic Structure,
Set operations Aggregate Operations - Join operations - Sub queries and correlated queries, SQL
functions , views ,Triggers, Embedded SQL.
150
UNIT IV
Functional Dependencies– Introduction , Basic Definitions, Trivial and Non trivial dependencies,
closure of a set of dependencies, closure of attributes, irreducible set of dependencies- Schema
Refinement in Database Design- Problems Caused by Redundancy – Decompositions – Problem
Related to Decomposition –- Lossless Join Decomposition – Dependency Preserving
Decomposition - FIRST, SECOND, THIRD Normal Forms – BCNF –– Multi valued Dependencies
– Fourth Normal Form.
UNIT V
Transaction concept- Transaction state- Implementation of atomicity and Durability- Concurrent
executions – Serializability, Recoverability
File Organization – Organization of records in file - Data Dictionary Storage – Indexing and
Hashing – Basic Concepts , Ordered Indices,B+Tree Index files, B- tree index files
TEXT BOOKS
1. Database System Concepts, Silberschatz, Korth , Fifth Edition, McGraw hill
(1,2,3 and 5 Units)
2. Introduction to Database Systems, C.J.Date, Pearson Education (4th Unit)
REFERENCES
1. Fundamentals of Database Systems, Elmasri Navrate Pearson Education
2. Database Management Systems, Raghu ramakrishnan, Johannes Gehrke, TATA Mc
Graw Hill(1,2,3 and 5 Units)
3. Data base Systems design, Implementation, and Management, Peter Rob and Carlos
Coronel 7th Edition.
4. Data Base Systems using Oracle : A simplified guide to SQL and PL /SQL, Shah, PHI
151
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5AE72) MODERN AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGIES
Pre-requisites
• Principles of automobile engineering
Course objectives:
• Provide an overview on advanced engine control system concepts
• Study the concepts and drivetrain configurations of electric and hybrid electric vehicles
• Present principle, working and automotive applications of fuel cell and solar technology
• Aware of intelligent vehicle technologies like navigation, safety, security and comfort
systems
Course Outcome
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply advanced engine control system concepts in engineering
• Discuss electric and hybrid electric drive train technologies and drive train components
• Describe automotive applications of fuel cell and solar technology
• Appreciate the technological advancements driver assistance systems
UNIT I
Advanced Engine Controls
Concept of an electronic engine control system, electronic fuel injection - throttle body fuel
injection, multi point fuel injection, gasoline direct injection, common rail direct injection, electronic
ignition control, engine mapping, on-board diagnostics – engine control module and powertrain
control module.
UNIT II
Electric and Hybrid Vehicles
Electric vehicles - Layout of an electric vehicle, performance, energy consumption, advantage
and limitations. Hybrid electric vehicles - Concepts, types of hybrid drive train architecture, merits
and demerits.
UNIT III
Fuel Cell and Solar Vehicles
Fuel cell vehicle – Operating principle, types of fuel cells, fuel cell options for fuel cell vehicle and
fuel cell hybrid vehicle. Solar vehicle - Solar photovoltaic cell, solar array, solar car electrical
system and drive train.
152
UNIT IV
Telematics and Comfort Systems
Global positioning system, geographical information systems, navigation system, automotive
vision system, adaptive cruise control system, active suspension system, power steering and
power windows.
UNIT V
Safety and Security Systems
Active and passive safety, airbags, seat belt tightening system, collision warning systems, anti
lock braking systems, traction control system, electronic immobilizers, remote keyless entry,
smart card system, number plate coding.
TEXT BOOKS
1. William B Riddens, “Understanding Automotive Electronics”, 5th edition, Butter worth
Heinemann Woburn,1998.
2. Mehrdad Ehsani, Yimin Gao, sebastien E. Gay and Ali Emadi, “Modern Electric, Hybrid
Electric and Fuel Cell Vehicles: Fundamentals, Theory and Design”, CRC Press, 2005.
REFERENCES
1. Ljubo Vlacic, Michel Parent and Fumio Harashima, “Intelligent Vehicle Technologies”,
Butterworth-Heinemann publications, Oxford, 2001.
2. “Automotive Hand Book” Robert Bosch, SAE, 5th edition, 2000.
3. Iqbal Husain, “Electric and Hybrid Vehicles: Design Fundamentals, CRC Press, 2003.
4. “Navigation and Intelligent Transportation Systems – Progress in Technology”, Ronald K
Jurgen, Automotive Electronics Series, SAE, USA, 1998.
153
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5BS72) ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Course Objective
• To introduce basics of entrepreneurship development and the skills set required for
innovation.
• To Understand changing business trends to enhance decision making skills.
• To learn analytical and conceptual skills of identifying opportunities and check on their
feasibility for start-ups.
• To motivate the engineers to choose entrepreneurship as a career for personal and
societal growth.
Course Outcome
After completion of the course the students are able:
• To identify business opportunities and equip themselves in preparing business plans
• To analyze and evaluate different proposals and its requirements for start-up’s.
• To pitch the ideas to launch their own venture.
• To assess the impact of competition and find methods to overcome the problems in
business.
UNIT I
Entrepreneurial Skills-Opportunities
Entrepreneurship as a career, Personality and Skill Set of Entrepreneur, The Wisdom of Five
WHY’s and in action, Value and Growth-Stories of Successful Enterprises.
Innovation and Entrepreneurship: Three Learning Milestones of Innovation: Use of Minimum
Viable Product-Startup’s must tune the baseline towards the ideal-Pivot or Persevere.
UNIT II
Changing Business Environment-Role of Entrepreneur
The Role of Quality and Design, Beyond “The right place at the right time”, Current trends in
Business, Entrepreneurial Management.
UNIT III
Origins Of Lean Start-up-Business Plans
The Concept of Vision to Steering: From Start-Define-Learn-Experiment to Leap-Test-Measure-
Pivot.
UNIT IV
Validation of Projects and Products
Projects Evaluation by Budgeting Techniques, Value vs Waste, Analogs and Anti-logs, Analysis
Paralysis, Why first products are not meant to be perfect-Experiences, Forecasting and
Experimenting of Products.
154
UNIT V
Start-up Methods and Understanding Competition
Accelerating Start-up’s, optimization versus learning, Kanban Diagram of work as it progresses
from stage to stage, the value of three A’s: Actionable, Accessible and Auditable, Engines of
growth to determine product/market fit, adopting smaller batches, reasons for Failures in Start-
up’s, Pricing Strategies Based On Competition
Text Books:
1. Eric Ries, “The Lean Startup”, Crown Business, New York. v.3.1.
2. Hisrich, Entrepreneurship, Tata McGraw Hill, New Delhi, 2001.
3. S.S.Khanka, Entrepreneurial Development, S.Chand and Company Limited, New Delhi, 2001.
Refrences:
1. Mathew Manimala, Entrepreneurship Theory at the Crossroads, Paradigms &
Praxis,Biztrantra ,2nd Edition ,2005
3. Prasanna Chandra, Projects – Planning, Analysis, Selection, Implementation and
Reviews,Tata McGraw-Hill, 1996.
3. P.Saravanavel, Entrepreneurial Development, Ess Pee kay Publishing House, Chennai -
1997.
4. Arya Kumar. Entrepreneurship. Pearson. 2012
5. Donald F Kuratko, T.V Rao. Entrepreneurship: A South Asian perspective. Cengage
Learning.2012
155
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EC56) MICROPROCESSORS AND MICROCONTROLLERS LABORATORY
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites
• Concepts of ,Digital design and basic programming
Course Objectives
• To understand internal structure of processors and controllers
• To provide practical knowledge on programming 8086/8051 to perform various operations.
• Interface various I/O devices to 8086/8051
• Design and develop digital systems for embedded applications and know the process to
meet desired needs within realistic constraints
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Enhance programming skills for simple and complex tasks used in various engineering
disciplines.
• Apply the knowledge of interfacing techniques to design processor/ controller based
systems
1. Programs for 16 bit arithmetic operations for 8086 (using Various Addressing
Modes).
2. Program for sorting an array for 8086.
3. Program for searching for a number or character in a string for 8086.
4. Program for string manipulations for 8086.
5. Program for digital clock design using 8086.
6. Interfacing ADC and DAC to 8086 / 8051.
7. Interfacing stepper motor to 8086 / 8051.
8. Programming using arithmetic, logical and bit manipulation instructions of 8051.
9. Program and verify Timer/ Counter in 8051.
10. Program and verify Interrupt handling in 8051
11. UART Operation in 8051.
12. Communication between 8051 kit and PC.
13. Interfacing LCD to 8051.
14. Interfacing Matrix / Keyboard to 8051.
156
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EC57) DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING LABORATORY
Pre-requisites
• Digital Signal Processing concepts
Course Objectives
Simulation and implementation on DSP processor
• To verify properties of a discrete system.
• To learn various transforms on digital signals.
• To understand the design of digital filters.
• To verify basic properties of multi rate systems.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Design digital filters for the given specifications.
• Design real time experiments on audio and speech processors.
The following experiments are to be performed using appropriate Software
1. Circular Convolution
2. Discrete Fourier Transform / Inverse Discrete Fourier Transform
3. Power Density Spectrum
4. Implementation of Filters using IIR
5. Implementation of Filters using FIR
6. Generation of Sinusoidal signal through filtering
7. Generation of DTMF Signals
8. Implementation of Decimation and Interpolation processes, I/D sampling Rate Converters.
Getting familiarity with Simulink
1. Features of DSP Processor Kit (DSK)
2. Installation Procedure for DSK
3. Introduction To Code Composer Studio
4. Procedure to Work On CCS
The following Experiments are to be performed using DSP Processor Kit
1. To Verify Linear Convolution (Assembly Language program Using 67XX Instructions).
2. To Verify Circular Convolution.
3. Implementation of FIR (Low Pass/High Pass) using Windowing Technique.
i. Using Rectangular Window
ii. Using Triangular Window
iii. Using Kaiser Window
157
4. Implementation of IIR Filter (Low Pass and High pass).
5. To find The FFT of given 1-D Signal and Plot
6. To compute Power Density Spectrum(PDS) of a Sequence
7. Audio applications such as audio effects , Interpolation, Decimation effects
158
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EC12)VLSI DESIGN
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites
• Electronic Devices and circuits, Digital IC Concepts
Course Objectives
• To learn the various fabrication steps of IC and come across basic electrical properties
of MOSFET.
• To study the concepts of stick diagrams and layouts with the knowledge of MOS layers
through design rules.
• To study gate level design of subsystems, integrated circuits
• To learn concepts of PLD’s ,design capture tools and CMOS testing.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand IC Fabrication process steps required for various MOS circuits
• Analyze electrical properties and layout flow for circuit level and gate level models
• Design and test VLSI circuits.
UNIT I
Introduction
Introduction to MOS Technology – MOS, PMOS, NMOS, CMOS and BiCMOS technologies,
fabrication fundamentals: Oxidation, Lithography, Diffusion, Ion implantation, Metallization and
Encapsulation.
Basic Electrical Properties
Basic Electrical Properties of MOS ,CMOS and BiCMOS Circuits: I -V relationships, MOS
DS DS
transistor threshold Voltage, g , g , figure of merit w , Pass transistor, NMOS inverter, Various
M DS o
pull - ups, Determination of pull-up to pull-down ratio( Z / Z ) , CMOS Inverter analysis and
pu pd
design, BiCMOS inverters, Latch-up in CMOS circuits.
UNIT II
VLSI Circuit Design Processes
VLSI Design Flow, MOS Layers, Stick Diagrams, Design Rules and Layouts, Lambda based
design rules, Contact cuts , CMOS Lambda based design rules, Layout Diagrams for logic
gates, Transistor structures, wires and vias, Scaling of MOS circuits- Scaling models, scaling
factors, scaling factors for device parameters, Limitations of Scaling.
UNIT III
Gate Level Design And Layout
Architectural issues, Switch logic networks: Gate logic, Alternate gate circuit: Pseudo-NMOS ,
Dynamic CMOS logic. Basic circuit concepts, Sheet Resistance R and its concept to MOS, Area
S
159
Capacitance Units, Calculations, The delay unit T, Inverter Delays, Driving large Capacitive
Loads, Wiring Capacitances, Fan-in and fan-out, Choice of layers.
UNIT IV
Subsystem Design
Subsystem Design, Shifters, Adders, ALUs, Multipliers: Array multiplier, Serial-Parallel multiplier,
Parity generator, Comparators, Zero/One Detectors, Up/Down Counter, Memory elements.
Semiconductor Integrated Circuit Design
PLDs, FPGAs, CPLDs, Standard Cells, Programmable Array Logic, Programmable Logic Array
Design Approach.
UNIT V
VHDL Synthesis
VHDL Synthesis, Circuit Design Flow, Circuit Synthesis, Simulation, Layout, Design capture tools,
Design Verification Tools.
CMOS Testing
CMOS Testing, Need for testing, Test Principles, Design Strategies for test, Over view of Chip
level Test Techniques and System-level Test Techniques, Layout Design for Improved Testability.
TEXTBOOKS
1. Essentials of VLSI circuits and systems – Kamran Eshraghian, Dougles and A. Pucknell,
PHIEdition, 2005.
2. Modern VLSI Design –Wayne Wolf, Pearson Education , 3rd Edition, 1997.
REFERENCES
1. CMOS VLSI Design – A circuits and systems perspective, Neil H.E Weste , David
Harris , Ayan Banerjee,pearson ,2009
2. CMOS logic circuit Design – John P. Uyemura , Springer , 2007
2. VLSI DESIGN – K.Lal Kishore , VSV Prabhakar – I.K..International ,2009
3. VLSI Design – A.Albert Raj, Latha PHI, 2008.
4. Introduction to VLSI Design- Mead and Convey , BS Publcations, 2010.
5. VLSI Design – M. Michal Vai, CRC Press, 2009.
160
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EC13) CELLULAR AND MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS
Pre-requisites
• Analog and Digital Communication Fundamentals
Course Objectives
• To understand concepts of cellular and mobile radio systems
• To learn various types of interferences and mobile propagation.
• To understand various Hand-off mechanisms
• To learn about digital cellular networks
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Analyze the basic functioning of a cellular network system.
• Design cellular and mobile systems using various antennas
• Illustrate different methods of Handoff mechanisms and cellular networks.
UNIT I
Cellular Mobile Radio Systems
Introduction to Cellular Mobile System, Performance criteria, uniqueness of mobile radio
environment, operation of cellular systems, Hexagonal shaped cells, Analog and Digital Cellular
systems.
Elements Of Cellular Radio System Design
General description of the problem, concept of frequency reuse, Co-channel Interference
Reduction Factor, desired C/I from a normal case in a omni directional Antenna system, Cell
splitting, consideration of the components of Cellular system.
UNIT II
Interference
Introduction to Co-Channel Interference, real time Co-Channel interference, measurement,
design of Antenna system, Antenna parameters and their effects, diversity receiver, non-co-
channel interference-different types.
Cell Coverage for Signal And Traffic
Signal reflections in flat and hilly terrain, effect of human made structures, phase difference
between direct and reflected paths, constant standard deviation, straight line path loss slope,
general formula for mobile propagation over water and flat open area, near and long distance
propagation, path loss from of a point to point prediction model.
UNIT III
Cell Site and Mobile Antennas
Sum and difference patterns and their synthesis, omni directional antennas, directional antennas
for interference reduction, space diversity antennas, umbrella pattern antennas, minimum
separation of cell site antennas, high gain antennas.
161
Frequency Management And Channel Assignment
Numbering and grouping, setup access and paging channels channel assignments to cell sites
and mobile units, channel sharing and borrowing, sectorization, overlaid cells, non fixed channel
assignment.
UNIT IV
Handoffs and dropped calls:
Handoff, dropped calls and cell splitting, types of handoff, handoff initiation, delaying handoff,
forced handoff, mobile assisted handoff, Intersystem handoff, micro cells, vehicle locating
methods, dropped call rates and their evaluation.
UNIT V
Digital Cellular Networks
GSM architecture, GSM channels, GSM Standards, multiple access schemes -TDMA, CDMA,
WCDMA, 3G, Introduction to 4G and 5G
TEXT BOOKS
1. Mobile Cellular Telecommunications – W.C.Y. Lee, Tata McGraw Hill, 2ndEdition, 2006.
2. Principles of Mobile Communications – Gordon L. Stuber, Springer International 2nd Edition,
2007.
REFERENCES
1. Wireless Communications - Theodore. S. Rapport, Pearson education, 2nd Edition, 2002.
2. Wireless and Mobile Communications – Lee McGraw Hills, 3rd Edition, 2006.
3. Wireless Communication and Networking – Jon W. Mark and Weihua Zhqung, PHI, 2005.
162
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5IT06) COMPUTER NETWORKS
(Common to ECE, CSE, EIE & IT)
Pre-requisites
• Digital communications
Course Objectives
• Analyze the terminology and concepts of the OSI and TCP-IP reference model.
• Examine various error correction and error detection methods.
• Learn addressing mechanisms efficiently to build a network.
• Understand and predict the Pros and cons of existing protocols and its working
procedures.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Demonstrate the Layered Architecture (OSI and TCP-IP reference models) of
Computer Networks.
• Apply all the error correction and detection mechanisms.
• Implement the Addressing mechanisms to assign IP addresses to network efficiently.
• Design and formulate new protocols or reproduce the existing protocols for efficient
working of computer networks.
UNIT I
Data Communications
Components – Direction of Data flow – Networks – Components and
Categories – Types of Connections – Topologies –Protocols and Standards – ISO / OSI model,
Example Networks such as ATM, Frame Relay, ISDN
Physical layer: Transmission modes, Multiplexing, Transmission Media, Switching, Circuit
Switched Networks, Datagram Networks, Virtual Circuit Networks.
UNIT II
Data link layer
Introduction, Framing, and Error – Detection and Correction – Parity – LRC – CRC Hamming
code, Flow and Error Control, Noiseless Channels, Noisy Channels, HDLC, Point to Point
Protocols.
Medium Access sub layer: ALOHA, CSMA/CD, LAN - Ethernet IEEE 802.5 - IEEE 802.11,
Random access, Controlled access, Channelization,
163
UNIT III
Network layer
Logical Addressing, Internetworking, Tunneling, Address mapping, ICMP, IGMP, Forwarding, Uni-
Cast Routing Protocols, Multicast Routing Protocols.
UNIT IV
Transport Layer
Process to Process Delivery, UDP and TCP protocols, Data Traffic, Congestion, Congestion
Control, QoS, Integrated Services, Differentiated Services, QoS in Switched Networks.
UNIT V
Application Layer
Domain name space, DNS in internet, electronic mail, SMTP, FTP, WWW, HTTP, SNMP.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Data Communications and Networking – Behrouz A. Forouzan , Fourth Edition
TMH,2006.
2. Computer Networks — Andrew S Tanenbaum, 4th Edition. Pearson Education/PHI.
REFERENCES
1. Data communications and computer Networks, P.C .Gupta, PHI.
2. An Engineering Approach to Computer Networks-S.Keshav, 2nd Edition, Pearson
Education.
3. Understanding communications and Networks, 3rd Edition, W.A. Shay, Cengage
Learning.
4. Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach Featuring the Internet. James F.
Kurose&Keith W. Ross,3rd Edition, Pearson Education.
5. Larry L.Peterson and Peter S. Davie, “Computer Networks”, Harcourt Asia Pvt. Ltd.,
Second Edition.
6. William Stallings, “Data and Computer Communication”, Sixth Edition, Pearson
Education, 2000.
164
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS42) MANAGEMENT SCIENCE
(Common to EEE, ECE, CSE, EIE & IT)
Pre-requisites
• Business Economics and Financial Analysis
Course Objectives
• Understand the principles, functions, theories and practices of different management areas
and to provide them with practical exposure to cases of success/failure in business.
• Expose with a systematic and critical understanding of organizational theory, structures and
design.
• Comprehend conceptual models of strategic management and to familiarize with the tools of
operations and project management.
• Understand the role of human relations in the management of operations and to provide
basic insights into contemporary management practices.
Course outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Function effectively in multidisciplinary teams to accomplish a common goal of organizations.
• Apply theories to improve the practice of management.
• Appreciate the management challenges associated with high levels of change in the
organizations.
• Develop global vision and management skills at both a strategic level and interpersonal level.
UNIT I
Introduction to management
Concepts of management - nature, importance, and functions of management; Taylor’s scientific
management theory; Fayol’s principles of management; Mayo’s Hawthorne experiments;
Maslow’s theory of human needs; Douglas McGregor’s theory X and theory Y; Herzberg’s two-
factor theory of motivation; System and contingency approach to management; Planning –
meaning, significance, and types of plans; Decision making and steps in decision making
process; Leadership styles; Social responsibilities of management.
Organizing - Meaning, and features; Process of organization; Principles of organization; Elements
of organization; Organization chart; Span of control - Graicunas formulae; Centralisation and
decentralization; Types of mechanistic and organic structures of organisation - line organization,
line and staff organization, functional organization, committee organization, matrix organization,
virtual organisation, cellular organisation, team structure, boundaryless organization, inverted
pyramid structure, and lean and flat organization structure; Their merits, demerits and suitability.
165
UNIT II
Human resources management
Concepts of HRM; Basic functions of HR manager - human resource planning (definition;
objectives; process), recruitment (definition; sources; techniques), selection (definition; process),
induction and orientation, training and development (definition; need; methods), employee exit
process, employee relations management, employee compensation and benefits administration,
job evaluation (objectives; process; methods), and performance appraisals (objectives; process;
methods).
UNIT III
Strategic management
Mission; Goals; Objectives; Policy; Strategy; Programmes; Elements of corporate planning
process - environmental scanning; value chain analysis, BCG matrix, generic strategy
alternatives, SWOT analysis, and steps in strategy formulation and implementation; Balance
score card; Capability maturity model (CMM)/ People capability maturity model(PCMM).
UNIT IV
Operations management
Plant location; Types of plant layout; Methods of production – job, batch, and mass production;
Work study-basic procedure involved in method study and work measurement.
Materials management
Objectives; Need for inventory control; EOQ, ABC Analysis; Purchase procedure; Value analysis;
JIT, Six sigma; TQM; Supply chain management; Stores management and stores records.
Marketing
Functions of marketing; Marketing mix, and marketing strategies based on product life cycle;
Channels of distribution.
UNIT V
Project management – network analysis
Network analysis; Programme evaluation review technique - PERT (probability of completing the
project within given time); Critical path method - CPM (Identifying critical path); Project cost
analysis; Project crashing; Simple problems.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Management Science by Aryasri; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill, 2009.
2. Principles and Practice of Management - L.M. Prasad; Publisher: Sultan Chand Publications,
New Delhi.
REFERENCES
1. Principles of Marketing: A South Asian Perspective by Kotler Philip, Gary Armstrong, Prafulla
Y. Agnihotri, and Eshan ul Haque , 2010, 13th Edition, Publisher: Pearson Education/
Prentice Hall of India.
2. Management by James Arthur, Finch Stoner, R. Edward Freeman, and Daniel R. Gilbert 6th
Ed; Publisher: Pearson Education/Prentice Hall.
3. A Handbook of Human Resource Management Practice by Michael Armstrong, 2010;
Publisher: Kogan Page Publishers.
166
4. Operations Management: Theory and Practice by B. Mahadevan, 2010; Publisher: Pearson
Education.
5. Strategic Management by V.S.P. Rao and V. Hari Krishna, 2010; Publisher: Excel Books.
167
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - I 3 0 3
(5EC73) DIGITAL IMAGE PROCESSING
(Common to ECE, EIE & IT)
Pre-requisites
• Digital Signal processing
Course Objectives
• To introduce fundamentals of digital image processing and study image transforms
• To demonstrate digital image processing techniques in spatial and frequency domains
• To study and compare various image compression algorithms
• To study advanced image analysis methods: image segmentation, morphological image
processing, & image restoration
.Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Acquire, represent the digital image and transforms
• Apply various intensity based image processing techniques
• Apply various pixel position based image processing techniques
UNIT I
Fundamentals of Image Processing
Digital Image Fundamentals, Basic steps of Image Processing System, Sampling and
Quantization of an image, relationship between pixels, Imaging Geometry.
Image Transforms: 2 D- Discrete Fourier Transform, Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT), Haar
Transform, Hadmard Transform, Hotelling Transform and slant transform.
UNIT II
Image Enhancement
Spatial domain methods: Histogram processing, Fundamentals of Spatial filtering, Smoothing
spatial filters, Sharpening spatial filters.
Frequency domain methods: Basics of filtering in frequency domain, image smoothing, image
sharpening, Selective filtering.
UNIT III
Image Segmentation
Segmentation concepts, Point, Line and Edge Detection, Edge Linking using Hough Transform,
Thresholding, Region Based segmentation.
Wavelet based Image Processing
Introduction to wavelet Transform, Continuous wavelet Transform, Discrete wavelet Transform,
Filter banks, Wavelet based image compression
168
UNIT IV
Image Compression
Image compression fundamentals - Coding Redundancy, Spatial and Temporal redundancy,
Compression models: Lossy and Lossless, Huffman coding, Arithmetic coding, LZW coding, Run
length coding, Bit plane coding, Transform coding, Predictive coding, JPEG 2000 Standards.
UNIT V
Image Restoration
Image Restoration Degradation model, Algebraic approach to restoration, Inverse Filtering, Least
Mean square filters.
Morphological Image Processing
Dilation and Erosion, Opening and closing, the hit or miss Transformation, Overview of Digital
Image Watermarking Methods
TEXT BOOKS
1. Digital Image Processing- Rafael C. Gonzalez and Richard E.Woods, 3rd Edition,
Pearson, 2008.
2. Digital Image Processing- S.Jayaraman, S Esakkirajan, T Veerakumar, TMH,
2010.
REFERENCES
1. Digital Image Processing-William K.Pratt, 3rd Edition, John Willey, 2004.
2. Fundamentals of Digital Image Processing-A.K.Jain, PHI, 1989.
3. Digital Image Processing using MATLAB - Rafael C. Gonzalez, Richard E.Woods
and Steven L.Edding 2nd , TMH. 2010.
4. Digital Image Processing and Computer Vision – Somka, Hlavac, Boyl, Cengage
Learning, 2008.
5. Introduction to image Processing and Analysis – John C. Russ, J. Christian Russ, CRC
Press, 2010
169
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I sem L T/P/D C
Elective - I 3 0 3
(5EC74) OPTICAL COMMUNICATIONS
Pre-requisites
• Optical Physics, Communications Concepts
Course Objectives
• To learn about the basic elements of optical fiber transmission link, fiber modes,
configurations, structures and losses associated
• To know the working principles of various optical sources and photo detectors
• To analyze and design a fiber optic link for a given budget requirement
• To understand the parameters effecting the systems performance
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Demonstrate an understanding of the propagation of light in optical fiber.
• Analyze the principles governing optical sources and detectors used in optical
communications.
• Design an optical communication system for a particular application.
UNIT I
Optical fiber communication
The general system, Advantages of optical fiber communications. Optical fiber wave guides-
Introduction, Ray theory transmission, Total Internal Reflection, Acceptance angle, Numerical
Aperture, Skew rays. Cylindrical fibers- Modes, Vnumber, Mode coupling, Step Index fibers,
Graded Index fibers. Single mode fibers- Cut off wavelength, Mode Field Diameter, Effective
Refractive Index. Signal distortion in optical fibers- Attenuation, Absorption, Scattering and
Bending losses, Core and Cladding losses.
UNIT II
Group delay, Types of Dispersion
Material dispersion, Wave-guide dispersion, Polarization mode dispersion, Intermodal dispersion.
Pulse broadening. Optical fiber Connectors- Connector types, Single mode fiber connectors,
Connector return loss. Fiber Splicing- Splicing techniques, Fiber alignment and joint loss-
Multimode fiber joints, single mode fiber joints.
170
UNIT III
Optical sources
LEDs, Structures, Materials, Quantum efficiency, Power, Modulation, Power bandwidth product.
Injection Laser Diodes- Modes, Threshold conditions, External quantum efficiency, Laser diode
rate equations, Resonant frequencies. Source to fiber power launching- Output patterns, Power
coupling, Power launching, Equilibrium Numerical Aperture, Laser diode to fiber coupling.
UNIT IV
Optical detectors
Physical principles of PIN and APD, Detector response time, Temperature effect on Avalanche
gain, Comparison of Photo detectors. Optical receiver operation: fundamental receiver operation,
Digital signal transmission, error sources, Receiver configuration, Digital receiver performance:
Probability of error, Quantum limit, Analog receivers.
UNIT V
Optical system design
Considerations, Component choice, Multiplexing. Point-to- point links, System considerations,
Link power budget with examples, Rise time budget with examples. WDM- Principles, Types of
WDM, Measurement of Attenuation and Dispersion.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Optical Fiber Communications – Gerd Keiser, Mc Graw-Hill International edition, 3rd
Edition, 2000.
2. Optical Fiber Communications – John M. Senior, PHI, 2nd Edition, 2002
RERFERENCE BOOKS
1. Fiber Optic Communications – D.K. Mynbaev , S.C. Gupta and Lowell L. Scheiner,
Pearson Education, 2005.
2. Text Book on Optical Fibre Communication and its Applications – S.C.Gupta, PHI, 2005.
3. Fiber Optic Communication Systems – Govind P. Agarwal , John Wiley, 3rd Ediition,
2004.
4. Fiber Optic Communications – Joseph C. Palais, 4th Edition, Pearson Education, 2004.
171
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech ECE – I sem L T/P/D C
Elective - I 3 0 3
(5EC75) DIGITAL TELEVISION ENGINEERING
Pre-requisites
• Communication Fundamentals
Course Objectives
• To learn the fundamentals of Digital Television Standards.
• To Understand the Digital Television Coding and Decoding techniques
• To Know about RF systems, transmission lines and antennas for Digital TV
• To understand digital television transmitter and receiver
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Compare transmission standards, Channel coding and performance parameters for Digital
TV
• Analyze modulation techniques, RF amplifiers and Identify Transmission lines and antennas
suitable for Digital TV.
• Test a Digital TV Transmitter and receiver
UNIT I
Digital Television Transmission Standards: ATSC terrestrial transmission standard, vestigial
sideband modulation, DVB-T transmission standard, ISDB-T transmission standard, channel
allocations, antenna height and power, MPEG-2
Performance Objectives for Digital Television: System noise, external noise sources,
transmission errors, error vector magnitude, eye pattern, interference, cochannel interference,
adjacent channel interference, analog to digital TV, transmitter requirements
UNIT II
Channel Coding and Modulation for Digital Television: Data synchronization,
randomization/scrambling, forward error correction, interleaving, inner code, frame sync insertion,
quadrature modulation, 8 VSB, bandwidth, error rate, COFDM, flexibility, bandwidth
UNIT III
Transmitters for Digital Television: Pre-correction and equalization, up conversion, precise
frequency control, RF amplifiers, solid-state transmitters, RF amplifier modules, power supplies,
power combiners, Wilkinson combiner, ring combiner, star point combiner, cooling, automatic
gain or level control, ac distribution, transmitter control, tube transmitters, tube or solid-state
transmitters, performance quality, retrofit of analog transmitters for DTV
172
Radio-Frequency Systems for Digital Television: Constant-impedance filter, output filters, elliptic
function filters, cavities, channel combiners
UNIT IV
Transmission Line for Digital Television: Fundamental parameters, efficiency, effect of VSWR,
system AERP, rigid coaxial transmission lines, dissipation, attenuation, and power handling,
higher-order modes, peak power rating, frequency response, standard lengths, corrugated coaxial
cables, wind load, waveguide, bandwidth, waveguide attenuation, power rating, frequency
response, size trade-offs, waveguide or coax pressurization
UNIT V
Transmitting Antennas for Digital Television : Antenna patterns, elevation pattern, mechanical
stability, null fill, azimuth pattern, slotted cylinder antennas, gain and directivity, power handling,
antenna impedance, bandwidth and frequency response, multiple-channel operation, types of
digital television broadcast antennas, antenna mounting
Test and Measurement for Digital Television: Power measurements, average power
measurement, calorimetry, power meters, peak power measurement, measurement uncertainty,
testing digital television transmitters.
TEXT BOOKS
1. R. R. Gulati, Modern Television Practice, Principles, Technology and servicing, 2nd edition,
New Age International Publishers, 2004.
2. Gerald w. Collins, Fundamentals of Digital Television Transmission’, John Wiley, 2001.
REFERENCES
1. Television and Video Engineering - AM Dhake 2nd Edition, TMH, 2003.
2. R.R.Gulati, Monocrome and Colour Television, New Age International Publishers,2003.
3. Colour Television, Theory and Practice - SP Bali.
173
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - I 3 0 3
(5EE80) ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS AND FUZZY LOGIC
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Course Objectives
• To cater the knowledge of Neural Networks and Fuzzy Logic Control and use these for
controlling real time systems.
• To expose the students to the concepts of feed forward neural networks and about
feedback neural networks.
• To teach about the concept of fuzziness involved in various systems and
comprehensive knowledge of fuzzy logic control and to design the fuzzy control
• To learn the basic difference between the Fuzzy Logic and Neural Networks
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• The concepts of feed forward neural networks and learning and understanding of
feedback neural networks.
• Concept of fuzziness involved in various systems and fuzzy set theory.
• Comprehensive knowledge of fuzzy logic control and adaptive fuzzy logic.
• Adequate knowledge of application of fuzzy logic control to real time systems
UNIT I
Introduction to Neural Networks
Introduction, Humans and Computers, Biological Neuron and organization of the brain, Biological
and Artificial Neuron Models, Hodgkin-Huxley Neuron Model, Integrate-and-Fire Neuron Model,
Spiking Neuron Model, Characteristics of ANN, McCulloch-Pitts Model and Design of logic gates,
Historical Developments, Potential Applications of ANN.
Essentials of Artificial Neural Networks
Artificial Neuron Model, Operations of Artificial Neuron, Types of Neuron Activation Function,
ANN Architectures, Classification Taxonomy of ANN – Connectivity, Neural Dynamics (Activation
and Synaptic), Learning Strategy (Supervised, Unsupervised, Reinforcement), Learning Rules,
Types of Application.
UNIT II
Single Layer Feed Forward Neural Networks
Introduction, Perceptron Models: Discrete, Continuous and Multi-Category, Training Algorithms:
Discrete and Continuous Perceptron Networks, Perceptron Convergence theorem and concepts,
Limitations of the Perceptron Model, Applications.
Multilayer Feed Forward Neural Networks
174
Credit Assignment Problem, Generalized Delta Rule, Derivation of Back propagation (BP)
Training, Summary of Back propagation Algorithm, Learning Difficulties and Improvements.
UNIT III
Associative Memories
Paradigms of Associative Memory, Pattern Mathematics, Hebbian Learning, General Concepts of
Associative Memory (Associative Matrix, Association Rules, Hamming Distance, The Linear
Associator, Matrix Memories, Content Addressable Memory), Bidirectional Associative Memory
(BAM) Architecture, BAM Training Algorithms: Storage and Recall Algorithm, BAM Energy
Function
Architecture of Hopfield Network: Discrete and Continuous versions, Storage and Recall
Algorithm, Stability Analysis, Capacity of the Hopfield Network, Applications.
Unit IV
Classical and Fuzzy Sets
Introduction to classical sets - properties, Operations and relations; Fuzzy sets, Operations,
properties, fuzzy relations, membership functions.
Fuzzy Logic System Components
Fuzzification, Membership value assignment, development of rule base and decision making
system, Defuzzification to crisp sets, Defuzzification methods.
UNIT V
Applications
Neural network applications: Process identification, control, fault diagnosis and load
forecasting.
Fuzzy logic applications: Fuzzy logic control, Design and Analysis.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Neural Networks, Fuzzy logic, Genetic algorithm - synthesis and applications by
Rajasekharan and Rai, PHI Publications.
2. Artificial neural networks by B.Yegnarayana, PHI publications.
REFERENCES
1. Neural Networks by James A Freeman and Davis Skapura, Pearson Education, 2002.
2. Neural Networks by Simon Hakins , Pearson Education
3. Neural Engineering by C.Eliasmith and CH.Anderson, PHI
4. Neural Networks and Fuzzy Logic System by Bart Kosko, PHI Publications.
5. Introduction to Artificial Neural Systems by J.M.Zurada, Jaico Publishing House.
6. Introduction to Neural Networks using MATLAB 6.0 by S.N.Sivanandam, S.Sumathi,
S.N.Deepa, TMH, 2006.
175
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - II 3 0 3
(5EC76) RADAR SYSTEMS
Pre-requisites
• Communication Fundamentals
Course Objectives
• Understanding of the components of a radar system and their relationship to overall
system performance, the radar operating environment and techniques used to confront
it, and top level measures of performance.
• Understanding basic detection theory as applies to radar.
• Understanding the concepts of the matched filter, ambiguity functions, and other
aspects of waveform with noise.
• Understanding radar measurements, associated quality, and the fundamentals of radar
tracking.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Describe the principle of radars and factors affecting the radar performance.
• Analyze different types of radar systems to assess their performance.
• Illustrate the characteristics of radar receivers and their performance
UNIT I
Basics of Radar
Introduction, Radar block diagram and operation, Maximum Unambiguous Range, Simple form of
Radar Equation, Radar frequencies and Applications. Prediction of Range Performance, Minimum
detectable Signal, Receiver Noise, Modified Radar Range Equation, Illustrative Problems.
Radar Equation
SNR, Envelope Detector, False Alarm Time and Probability, Integration of Radar Pulses, Radar
Cross Section of Targets (simple targets: sphere, cone–sphere), Transmitter Power , PRF and
Range Ambiguities. Systems Losses (qualitative treatment) Illustrative Problems.
UNIT II
CW and Frequency Modulated Radar
Doppler Effect, CW Radar – Block Diagram , Isolation between Transmitter and receiver , Non
zero IF Receiver , Receiver Bandwidth Requirements, Applications of CW Radar. Illustrative
Problems.
FM-CW Radar: Range and Doppler Measurement, Block Diagram and Characteristics
(Approaching/ Receding Targets), FM-CW altimeter, Multiple Frequency CW Radar.
176
UNIT III
MTI and Pulse Doppler radar
Introduction, Principle, MTI Radar with - Power Amplifier Transmitter and Power Oscillator
Transmitter, Delay Line Cancellers – Filter Characteristics, Blind Speeds, Double Cancellation,
Staggered PRFs. Range Gated Doppler Filter. MTI Radar Parameters, Limitations to MTI
Performance, MTI versus Pulse Doppler Radar.
UNIT IV
Tracking Radar
Tracking with Radar, Sequential Lobing, Conical Scan, Monopulse Tracking Radar – Amplitude
Comparison Monopulse (one- and two- coordinates), Phase Comparison Monopulse. Tracking in
Range, Acquisition and Scanning Patterns. Comparison of Trackers.
UNIT V
Detection of Radar Signals in Noise
Introduction, Matched Filter Receiver – Response Characteristics and Derivation, Correlation
Function and Cross-correlation Receiver, Efficiency of Non-matched Filters, Matched Filter with
Non-white Noise.
Radar Receivers: Noise Figure and Noise Temperature. Displays – types. Duplexers – Branch
type and Balanced type. Introduction to Phased Array Antennas – Basic Concepts, Radiation
Pattern, Beam Steering and Beam Width changes, Applications, Advantages and Limitations.
Electronic Warfare: Introduction to ESM, ECM and ECCM systems.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Introduction to Radar Systems – Merrill I. Skolnik, TMH Special Indian Edition, 2nd
ed., 2007.
2. Radar Principles – Peebles, Jr., P.Z., Wiley, New York, 1998.
REFERENCES
1. Introduction to Radar Systems – Merrill I. Skolnik, 3rd ed., TMH, 2001.
2. Radar : Principles, Technology, Aplications – Byron Edde, Pearson Education,
2004.
177
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - II 3 0 3
(5EC77) TELECOMMUNICATION SWITCHING SYSTEMS
Pre-requisites
• Analog and Digital Communications
Course Objectives
• To study about the basic concepts of telephony switching.
• To learn about the telecommunication networks.
• To learn about the telecommunication signaling.
• To learn about the packet switching and high speed networks.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Analyze the performance of telecommunication switching system and network.
• Implement the switching and signaling techniques in communication networks
• Analyze the different routing protocols and high speed networks.
UNIT I
Switching Systems
Evolution of Telecommunications: Basics, functions, types and design parameters of switching
system.100/1000/10,000 Line exchange. Principles of Crossbar switching; A general trunking;
Electronic and digital switching systems.
UNIT II
Telecommunications Traffic
Introduction; Unit of traffic; congestion; Traffic measurement; Mathematical model; Lost call
systems-Theory; Traffic performance; Loss systems in Tandem; Use of traffic tables; Queing
systems-the second Erlang distribution ; Probability of delay; Finite queue capacity; some other
useful results; Systems with a single server; queues in tandem; Delay tables; Applications of
delay formulae.
Switching Networks
Introduction, Single stage networks; Grading Principles; Design of progressive grading; other
forms of gradings; Traffic capacity of Grading; Applications of grading; Link systems-grading;
Two, Three and four stage networks; Grades of service of link systems.
UNIT III
Time Division switching
Basics of time division space switching; basics of time division time switching; Time multiplexed
space switch; Time multiplexed time switch; Combination switching; Three stage Combination
switching. Control of switching systems; call processing functions; sequence of operations; signal
178
exchanges; State transition diagrams; common control; reliability; availability and security ; Stored
program control.
UNIT IV
Signaling
Introduction; Customer Line signaling; Audio frequency Junction and trunk circuits; FDM carrier
systems-Outband signaling; Inband (VF) signaling; PCM signaling; Inter Register signaling;
Common channel signaling principles- General signaling
networks; CCITT signaling system number 6; CCITT signaling system number 7; High level data
link control; Signal units; The signaling information field.
UNIT V
Packet Switching
Introduction; Statistical multiplexing; Local and wide Area networks- network topologies and their
comparison; Optical fiber Networks; Large scale networks-General; Datagrams and virtual
circuits; Routing; Flow control; Standards; Frame relay;
Broadband networks-general; Asynchronous Transfer mode; ATM switches, IP switches; ISDN;
Cellular radio networks; private networks; charging; Routing-general, automatic, Alternative
routing.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Telecommunication Switching and Traffic Networks, J.E Flood, Pearson Eduction, 2006.
2. Telecommunication Switching system and Networks, Tyagarajan Viswanathan Prentice
hall of India Pvt. Ltd., 2006.
REFERENCES
1. Digital Telephony, John C Bellamy, John Wiley International Student Edition, 3rd
Edition,2000.
2. Data Communications and Networking, Behrouz A. Ferouzan, TMH, 2nd Edition,2000.
3. Introduction to Data Communications and Networking, Tomasi, Pearson Education, 1st
Edition, 2007.
179
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - II 3 0 3
(5EC78) DIGITAL DESIGN THROUGH VERILOG
Pre-requisites
• Digital Logic Design, Programming Knowledge
Course Objectives
• To model, simulate and synthesize the digital designs using Verilog HDL
• To describe and realize the functionality of the digital design by using ASM charts
• To know architectural features and implementation of digital designs in CPLDs
• To know architectural features and building blocks of Altera’s FPGAs.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Design digital systems using Verilog HDL.
• Analyze synchronous sequential systems using ASM charts
• Implement digital designs on CPLDs & FPGAs.
UNIT I
Introduction to Verilog
Verilog as HDL, Levels of Design Description, Concurrency, Simulation and Synthesis, Functional
Verification, System Tasks, Programming Language Interface (PLI), Module, Test Benches.
Language Constructs and Conventions
Introduction, Keywords, Identifiers, White Space Characters, Comments, Numbers, Strings,
Logic Values, Strengths, Data Types, Scalars and Vectors, Parameters, Memory, Operators,
System Tasks.
UNIT II
Gate Level Modeling
Introduction, AND Gate Primitive, Module Structure, Other Gate Primitives, Illustrative Examples,
Tri-State Gates, Array of Instances of Primitives, Design of Flip-flops with Gate Primitives,
Delays, Strengths and Contention Resolution, Net Types, Design of Basic Circuits.
BEHAVIORAL MODELING : Introduction, Operations and Assignments, Functional Bifurcation,
Initial Construct, Always Construct, Assignments with Delays, Wait construct, Multiple Always
Blocks, Designs at Behavioral Level, Blocking and Non-blocking Assignments, The case
statement, Simulation Flow,iƒ and iƒ-else constructs, assign-deassign construct, repeat construct,
for loop, the disable construct, while loop, forever loop, parallel blocks, force-release construct,
Event.
180
UNIT III
Modeling at Data Flow Level
Introduction, Continuous Assignment Structures, Delays and Continuous Assignments,
Assignment to Vectors, Operators.
Switch Level Modeling: Introduction, Basic Transistor Switches, CMOS Switch, Bi-directional
Gates, Time Delays with Switch Primitives, Instantiations with Strengths and Delays, Strength
Contention with Trireg Nets
UNIT IV
System Tasks, Functions, and Compiler Directives
Introduction, Parameters, Path Delays, Module Parameters, System Tasks and Functions, File-
Based Tasks and Functions, Compiler Directives, Hierarchical Access.
Functions, Tasks, and User-Defined Primitives
Introduction, Function, Tasks, User- Defined Primitives (UDP), FSM Design (Moore and Mealy
Machines)
UNIT V
Digital Design with SM Charts
State Machine Charts, Derivation of SM Charts, Realization of SM Charts, Implementation of the
Dice Game, Alternative realizations for SM Charts using Microprogramming, Linked State
Machines.
Introduction to CPLD and FPGA architectures
Xilinx 3000 Series FPGAs, Altera FLEX 10K Series CPLDs.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Design through Verilog HDL – T.R. Padmanabhan and B. Bala Tripura Sundari, WSE, IEEE
Press,2004.
2. A Verilog Primier – J. Bhaskar, BSP, 2003.
REFERENCES
1. Fundamentals of Logic Design with Verilog –Stephen. Brown and ZvonkoVranesic, TMH,
2005.
2. Digital Systems Design using VHDL – Charles H Roth, Jr. Thomson Publications, 2004.
3. Advanced Digital Design with Verilog HDL – Michael D. Ciletti, PHI, 2005.
4. HDL Programming Fundamentals VHDL and VERILOG, Botros, Thomson Publications.
181
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - II 3 0 3
(5EC79) INTERNET OF THINGS
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites: Basic programming skills, basic electronics skills.
Course Objectives
• To understand the basics of Internet of Things
• To get an idea of some of the application areas where Internet of Things can be applied
• To understand the concepts of web and middleware for Internet of Things
• To understand the concepts of Cloud of Things with emphasis on Mobile cloud computing
and IOT protocols
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Identify and design the new models for market strategic interaction
• Design business intelligence and information security for Web
• Analyze various protocols for IoT and Design different models for network dynamics
UNIT I
Introduction
Definitions and Functional Requirements –Motivation – Architecture - Web 3.0 View of IoT–
Ubiquitous IoT Applications – Four Pillars of IoT – DNA of IoT - The Toolkit Approach for End-
user. Participation in the Internet of Things. Middleware for IoT: Overview – Communication
middleware for IoT –IoT Information Security
UNIT II
IOT Protocols
Protocol Standardization for IoT – Efforts – M2M and WSN Protocols – SCADA and RFID
Protocols – Issues with IoT Standardization – Unified Data Standards – Protocols – IEEE
802.15.4 – BACNet Protocol – Modbus – KNX – Zigbee Architecture – Network layer – APS layer
– Security.
UNIT III
Web of Things
Web of Things versus Internet of Things – Two Pillars of the Web – Architecture Standardization
for WoT– Platform Middleware for WoT – Unified Multitier WoT Architecture – WoT Portals and
Business Intelligence. Cloud of Things: Grid/SOA and Cloud Computing – Cloud Middleware –
Cloud Standards – Cloud Providers and Systems – Mobile Cloud Computing – The Cloud of
Things Architecture
UNIT IV
Integrated
Integrated Billing Solutions in the Internet of Things Business Models for the Internet of Things -
Network Dynamics: Population Models – Information Cascades - Network Effects – Network
Dynamics: Structural Models - Cascading Behavior in Networks - The Small-World Phenomenon
182
UNIT V
Applications
The Role of the Internet of Things for Increased Autonomy and Agility in Collaborative Production
Environments - Resource Management in the Internet of Things: Clustering, Synchronization and
Software Agents. Applications - Smart Grid – Electrical Vehicle Charging
TEXT BOOKS
1. The Internet of Things in the Cloud: A Middleware Perspective - Honbo Zhou – CRC
Press – 2012
2. Architecting the Internet of Things - Dieter Uckelmann; Mark Harrison; Florian
Michahelles- (Eds.) – Springer – 2011
REFERENCES
1. Olivier Hersent, David Boswarthick, Omar Elloumi , “The Internet of Things – Key
applications and Protocols”, Wiley, 2012
2. The Internet of Things: Applications to the Smart Grid and Building Automation by –
Olivier Hersent, Omar Elloumi and David Boswarthick - Wiley -2012
3. Networks, Crowds, and Markets: Reasoning About a Highly Connected World - David
Easley and Jon Kleinberg, Cambridge University Press - 2010
183
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B. Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EC58) MICROWAVE ENGINEERING LABORATORY
Pre-requisites
• Microwave Concepts
Course Objectives
• To study the performance of microwave oscillators
• To measure the characteristic parameters of Microwave components
• To calculate scattering parameters of microwave junctions
• To analyze various parameters of Microwave components
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Analyze the performance characteristics of Microwave sources and measure various
microwave parameters.
• Analyze the scattering parameters of microwave junctions
Minimum of 10 experiments to be conducted
1. Reflex Klystron Characteristics.
2. Gunn Diode Characteristics.
3. Attenuation Measurement.
4. Directional Coupler Characteristics.
5. VSWR Measurement.
6. Impedance and Frequency Measurement.
7. Waveguide parameters measurement.
8. Scattering parameters of Circulator.
9. Scattering parameters of Magic Tee.
10. Radiation Pattern Measurement.
11. Scattering parameters of E-Plane Tee.
12. Scattering parameters of H-Plane Tee.
13. Characteristics of Isolator.
14. Directivity measurement.
184
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EC59) ECAD AND VLSI LABORATORY
Pre-requisite
• Electronic Devices and circuits, Digital IC Concept
Course Objectives
• To learn Hardware Description Language and modeling of combinational circuits.
• To learn Hardware Description Language and modeling of sequential circuits.
• To design digital circuits using CAD tools.
• To learn the use of CAD tools for digital circuit design.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Design digital circuits by using logical and switching properties of sequential and combinational
circuits using HDL.
• Design digital circuits using frontend and backend tools.
E-CAD Programs
Programming can be done by using any model sim simulator.
1. Design of flips: SR, D, JK, T.
2. Universal Shift Registers
3. Design of 4-bit binary, BCD counters (synchronous /asynchronous reset)
4. Sequence detector.
VLSI Programs
5. Introduction to layout design rules, Layout, physical verification, placement and route for
complex design
6. CMOS inverter
7. CMOS NOR/ NAND gates
8. CMOS XOR gate and MUX
9. CMOS 1-bit full adder
10. SR Flip – Flop
11. JK Flip – Flop
12. D Flip – Flop
13. T Flip - Flop
185
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – I Sem L T/P/D C
0 4 2
(5EC91) INDUSTRY ORIENTED MINI PROJECT
186
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EC14) EMBEDDED REAL TIME OPERATING SYSTEMS
(Common to EEE, ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites
• Microprocessor and Microcontrollers Concepts
Course Objectives
• Learn the general embedded system concepts
• Understand design of embedded hardware and software development tools
• Learn the basics of OS and RTOS
• Describe key issues such as CPU scheduling, memory management, task synchronization,
and file system in the context of real-time embedded systems.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand and design real time and non real time embedded systems
• Define the unique design challenges of real-time systems and program them.
• Understand unique characteristics of RTOS and use RTOS to build an embedded real-time
system
UNIT I
Fundamentals of Embedded Systems
Definition – Classification of Embedded Systems - Processors in the system - Other Hardware
units. Software components - Examples for embedded systems, Design issues and trends
UNIT II
Embedded Hardware Development Environment
Processor Architecture- Structured units of a processor - Processor selection factors. Common
memory devices - Memory selection - Memory map - Internal devices & I/O devices, Serial
devices - Parallel port devices, Timer and Counting devices - Direct memory access,
Communication Interface Standards.
UNIT III
Embedded Software Development Environment
Embedded System Development Process, Embedded Operating systems, Types of Embedded
Operating systems, Host and Target machines, Linkers/Locators for embedded software, getting
embedded software into the target system, Testing on host machine.
187
UNIT IV
Real Time Operating Systems Concepts -I
Typical OS structure - RTOS structure - The context of its use - Schedule management for
multiple tasks - Scheduling in real time - RTOS task scheduling models – Round Robin, Round
Robin with Interrupts, Priority driven- Preemptive and Non-preemptive scheduling
UNIT V
Real Time Operating Systems Concepts -II
Tasks and Task states, Tasks and Data, Semaphores and shared data, Message queues,
Mailboxes and Pipes, Timer functions, events, Memory management, Interrupt routines in an
RTOS environment.
Case study of RTOS using MUCOS. Case study for RTOS based programming - Coding for
Automatic Chocolate vending machine using MUCOS.
TEXT BOOKS
1. An Embedded Software Primer – David E. Simon, Pearson Ed., 2005.
2. Embedded systems - architecture, programming and design - Raj Kamal; Tata McGraw
Hill
REFERENCES
1. Real time Systems”, J. W. S. Liu, Pearson
2. The 8051 Microcontroller & Embedded Systems using Assembly and C by Ayala &
Gadre, Cengage Publications
188
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - III 3 0 3
(5EC80) DSP PROCESSORS AND ARCHITECTURES
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Pre-requisites
• Digital Signal Processing
Course Objectives
• To study the Architectural details of TMS320C54xx DSPs and the concepts involved in
execution control and pipelining
• To analyze the importance of numeric formats and sources of errors in DSP
implementation
• To understand the concepts of Memory & I/O interfacing
• Develop various algorithms
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Design systems considering sampling rate
• Apply different DSP processor for various applications.
• Design and implement real time signal processing algorithms.
UNIT I
Introduction to DSP Processors
Digital Signal Processors, various architectures: VLIW Architecture, Multiprocessor DSPs,
SHARC, SIMD, MIMD, RISC and CISC.
Execution Control and Pipelining: Hardware looping, Interrupts, Stacks, Relative Branch
support, Pipelining and Performance, Pipeline Depth, Interlocking, Branch effects, Interrupt
effects, Pipeline Programming models.
UNIT II
Typical Real-Time DSP system
Data representations and arithmetic, Analog - to – digital conversion process, Uniform and non-
uniform quantization and encoding, Oversampling in A/D conversion, Digital to analog conversion
process: signal recovery, the DAC, Anti-imaging filtering, Oversampling in D/A conversion,
Analog I/O interface for real-time DSP systems, sources of errors in DSP implementation, real
time implementation considerations.
UNIT III
Fixed-Point DSP processors
Architecture of TMS 320C 5X, C54X Processors, addressing modes, Memory space of
TMS320C54XX Processors, Program Control, TMS320C54XX instructions and Programming,
189
On-Chip Peripherals, Interrupts of TMS320C54XX processors, Pipeline operation of
TMS320C54XX Processors, speed issues.
UNIT IV
Memory and I/O Interfacing
External bus interfacing signals, Memory interface, Parallel I/O interface: Programmed I/O,
Interrupts and I/O, Direct memory access (DMA). Hardware interfacing, Multichannel Buffered
Serial Port (McBSP), McBSP Programming, CODEC interface circuit.
UNIT V
Implementation of DSP algorithms
The Q-notation, FIR Filters, IIR Filters, Interpolation Filters, Decimation Filters, PID Controller,
Adaptive Filters, 2-D Signal Processing.
An FFT Algorithm for DFT Computation, A Butterfly Computation, Overflow and scaling, Bit-
Reversed index generation, An 8-Point FFT implementation on the TMS320C54XX.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Digital Signal Processing – Avtar Singh and S. Srinivasan, Thomson Publications, 2004.
2. Digital Signal Processing A Practical approach, Second Edition, Emmanuel C.
Ifeachor,Barrie W Jervis,Pearson Publications. 2002.
REFERENCES
1. Digital Signal processors Architectures, implementations and Applications-Sen M.Kuo,
Woon-Seng S.Gan, Pearson Publications, 2009.
2. Digital Signal Processors, Architecture, Programming and Applications –
B. Venkata Ramani and M. Bhaskar,TMH, 2004.
3. Digital Signal Processing – Jonatham Stein, John Wiley, 2005.
4. DSP Processor Fundamentals, Architectures and Features – Lapsley,
S. Chand, 2000.
5. “DSP Applications with TMS 320 Family”, K. Shin ,Prentice Hall, 1987.
190
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - III 3 0 3
(5EC81) SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
Pre-requisites
• Antennas, Microwave and Communication Concepts
Course Objectives
• Know, design understand the construction and principles of Satellites used for
communications
• Know the tracking techniques of satellites
• Learn about various multiple accessing techniques
• Know about the application of satellites in GPS and other applications
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the orbital mechanics and functioning of subsystems of a satellite.
• Illustrate the various multiple access techniques for communication.
• Design the power budget for satellite links
• Demonstrate the principles of GPS
UNIT I
Introduction
Origin of Satellite Communications, Historical Back-ground, Basic Concepts of Satellite
Communications, Frequency allocations for Satellite Services, Applications, Future Trends of
Satellite Communications.
Orbital Mechanics and Launchers: Orbital Mechanics, Look Angle determination, Orbital
perturbations, Orbital determination, Launches and Launch vehicles, Orbital effects in
communication systems performance.
UNIT II
Satellite Subsystems
Attitude and Orbit control system, Telemetry, Tracking, Commanding and Monitoring, Power
Systems, Communication Subsystems, Satellite antennas, Equipment reliability and Space
qualification.
UNIT III
Multiple Access
Frequency Division Multiple Access (FDMA), Intermodulation, calculation of C/N. Time Division
Multiple Access (TDMA), Frame structure, Examples. Satellite Switched TDMA Onboard
processing, DAMA, Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA), Spread Spectrum Transmission and
Reception.
191
UNIT IV
Satellite Link Design
Basic transmission theory, system noise temperature and G/T ratio, Design of down links, Uplink
design, Design of satellite links for specified C/N, System design examples.
Earth Station Technology: Introduction, Transmitters, Receivers, Antennas, Tracking systems,
Terrestrial Interface, Primary Power test methods.
UNIT V
Low Earth Orbit and Geo-Stationary Satellite Systems
Orbit considerations, Coverage and Frequency Consideration, Delay and Throughput
considerations, Systems considerations, Operational NGSO Constellation Designs.
Satellite Navigation and Global Positioning System: Radio and Satellite Navigation, GPS Position
Location principles, GPS Receivers and Codes, Satellite Signal Acquisition, GPS Navigation
Message, GPS Signal Levels, GPS Receiver Operation, GPS C/A code accuracy, Differential
GPS.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Satellite Communications- Timothy Pratt, Charles Bostian and Jeremy Allnutt, WSE,
Wiley Publications, 2ndEdition, 2003.
2. Satellite Communications Engineering- Wilbur L. Pritchard, Robert A Nelson and Henri
G. Suyderhoud, 2nd Edition, Pearson Publications, 2003.
REFERENCES
1. Satellite Communications: Design Principles- M. Richharia, B S publications, 2nd Edition,
2003.
2. Satellite Communication- D.C Agarwal, Khanna Publications, 5th Edition.
3. Fundamentals of Satellite Communications- K.N. Raja Rao, PHI, 2004
4. Satellite Communications- Dennis Roddy, McGraw Hill, 4th Edition, 2009
192
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - III 3 0 3
(5IT08) OPERATING SYSTEMS
(Common to ECE, CSE, EIE & IT)
Course Objectives:
• Analyze the tradeoffs inherent in operating system design.
• Summarize the various approaches to solving the problem of mutual exclusion in an
operating system.
• Evaluate the trade-offs in terms of memory size (main memory, auxiliary memory) and
processor speed.
• Demonstrate Main memery, disk storage strategies,file strategies and Implementation
• Analyze the system security with different cryptographical models.
Course Outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Identify the System calls, protection and interrupts of any GOS.
• Explain Input/output, disk access, file systems facilities any GOS.
• Write application keeping Concurrency and synchronization Semaphores/monitors,
shared memory, mutual exclusion Process scheduling services of an GOS in the mind.
• Extend operating systems, synchronization, virtual memory, and file systems.
UNIT I
Computer System and Operating System Overview: Overview of Computer System hardware,
Operating System Objectives and functions, Evolution of operating System, Example Systems.
Operating System Services, System Calls, System Programs.
Process Management: Process Description, Process Control Block, Process States
UNIT II
CPU Scheduling: Basic Concepts, Scheduling Criteria, Scheduling Algorithms and evaluation,
Threads Overview, Threading issues.
Concurrency: Cooperating Processes, Inter-process Communication, Principles of Concurrency,
Mutual Exclusion, Software and hardware approaches, Semaphores, Monitors, Message
Passing, Classic problems of synchronization.
UNIT III
Principles of deadlock: System Model, Deadlock Characterization, Methods for handling
Deadlocks, Deadlock Prevention, Deadlock avoidance, Deadlock detection, Recovery from
Deadlocks, Dining philosopher’s problem.
UNIT IV
Memory Management: Basic concepts, Swapping, Contiguous memory allocation, Paging,
Segmentation, Virtual memory, Demand paging, Page-replacement algorithms, Thrashing.
Secondary storage structure: Disk structure; Disk scheduling, Disk management, Swap-space
Management, RAID structure, Stable-storage Implementation, Tertiary-Storage Structure
193
UNIT V
File Management: File system-File concepts, Access methods, Directory structure, File system
mounting, File sharing and Protection. Implementing file systems-File system structure and
implementation, Directory implementation, Allocation methods, Free-space management,
Efficiency and performance
Protection & Security: Protection mechanisms, OS Security issues, threats, Intruders, Viruses,
Case studies: windows, Unix, Linux.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Operating System Principles- Abraham Silberchatz, Peter B. Galvin, Greg Gagne 7th
Edition, John Wiley.
2. Operating Systems - Internal and Design Principles, Stallings, Fifth Edition-2005,
Pearson education/PHI
REFERENCES:
1. Operating System A Design Approach-Crowley,TMH.
2. Modern Operating Systems, Andrew S Tanenbaum 2nd edition Pearson/PHI.
3. “An Introduction to Operating Systems, Concepts and Practice”, PHI, 2003 - Pramod
Chandra P. Bhat.
4. Operating Systems – A concept based approach – DM Dhamdhere – 2nd Edition TMH
194
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - III 3 0 3
(5EC82) SOFTWARE DEFINED RADIO
Pre-requisites
• Communication fundamentals
Course Objectives
• To understand the SDR and its architecture
• To understand the system design and signal conversion techniques
• To understand signal processing techniques
• To understand the transmitter and receiver architecture and working principle.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Conceptualize the SDR and implementation details
• Identify the blocks of SDR for a specific application
• Recognize the challenges in the implementation of SDR
• Analyze the transmitter and receiver architectures in SDR
UNIT I
Introduction
Software Defined Radio – A Traditional Hardware Radio Architecture – Signal Processing
Hardware History – Software Defined Radio Project Complexity.
A Basic Software Defined Radio Architecture – Introduction – 2G Radio Architectures- Hybrid
Radio Architecture- Basic Software Defined Radio Block Diagram- System Level Functioning
Partitioning-Digital Frequency Conversion Partitioning.
UNIT II
RF System Design
Introduction- Noise and Channel Capacity- Link Budget- Receiver Requirements- Multicarrier
Power Amplifiers- Signal Processing Capacity Tradeoff.
Analog-to-Digital and Digital-to-Analog Conversion- Introduction – Digital Conversion
Fundamentals- Sample Rate- Bandpass Sampling- Oversampling- Antialias Filtering –
Quantization – ADC Techniques-Successive Approximation- Figure of Merit-DACs- DAC Noise
Budget- ADC Noise Budget.
UNIT III
Digital Frequency Up- and Down Converters- Introduction
Frequency Converter Fundamentals- Digital NCO- Digital Mixers- Digital Filters- Halfband Filters-
CIC Filters- Decimation, Interpolation, and Multirate Processing-DUCs - Cascading Digital
Converters and Digital Frequency Converters.
Signal Processing Hardware Components- Introduction- SDR Requirements for Processing
Power- DSPs- DSP Devices- DSP Compilers- Reconfigurable Processors- Adaptive Computing
Machine- FPGAs
195
UNIT IV
Software Architecture and Components
Introduction- Major Software Architecture Choices – Hardware – Specific Software Architecture-
Software Standards for Software Radio-Software Design Patterns- Component Choices- Real
Time Operating Systems- High Level Software Languages- Hardware Languages.
UNIT V
Smart Antennas for Software Radio
Introduction- 3G smart Antenna Requirements- Phased Antenna Array Theory- Applying
Software Radio Principles to Antenna Systems- Smart Antenna Architectures- Optimum
Combining/ Adaptive Arrays- DOA Arrays- Beam Forming for CDMA- Downlink Beam Forming.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Paul Burns, Software Defined Radio for 3G, Artech House, 2002.
2. Tony J Rouphael, RF and DSP for SDR, Elsevier Newnes Press, 2008
REFERENCES
1. Jouko Vanakka, Digital Synthesizers and Transmitter for Software Radio, Springer, 2005.
2. P Kenington, RF and Baseband Techniques for Software Defined Radio, Artech House, 2005.
3. Software Radio: A Modern Approach to Radio Engineering by Jeffrey H. Reed, Prentice Hall
PTR; May 2002
196
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - IV 3 0 3
(5EC83) SPEECH PROCESSING
Pre-requisite
• Signal Processing
Course Objectives
• To introduce speech production and related parameters of speech.
• To show the computation and use of techniques such as short time Fourier transform, linear
predictive coefficients and other coefficients in the analysis of speech.
• To understand different speech modeling procedures such as Markov and their
implementation issues.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Analyze the basic components and parameters of speech.
• Identify different processes for speech modeling and recognition.
• Design a speech recognition system and to use different speech synthesis techniques.
UNIT I
Basic Concepts
Speech Fundamentals: Articulatory Phonetics – Production and Classification of Speech Sounds;
Acoustic Phonetics – Acoustics of speech production; Review of Digital Signal Processing
concepts; Short-Time Fourier Transform, Filter-Bank and LPC Methods.
UNIT II
Speech Analysis
Features, Feature Extraction and Pattern Comparison Techniques: Speech distortion measures–
mathematical and perceptual – Log–Spectral Distance, Cepstral Distances, Weighted Cepstral
Distances and Filtering, Likelihood Distortions, Spectral Distortion using a Warped Frequency
Scale, LPC, PLP and MFCC Coefficients, Time Alignment and Normalization – Dynamic Time
Warping, Multiple Time – Alignment Paths.
UNIT III
Speech Modeling
Hidden Markov Models: Markov Processes, HMMs – Evaluation, Optimal State Sequence –
Viterbi Search, Baum-Welch Parameter Re-estimation, Implementation issues.
UNIT IV
Speech Recognition
Large Vocabulary Continuous Speech Recognition: Architecture of large vocabulary continuous
speech recognition system – acoustics and language models – n-grams, context dependent sub-
word units; Applications and present status.
197
UNIT V
Speech Synthesis
Text-to-Speech Synthesis: Concatenative and waveform synthesis methods, sub-word units for
TTS, intelligibility and naturalness – role of prosody, Applications and present status.
TEXT BOOKS
1. L.R.Rabiner and R.W.Schafer : Digital Processing of Speech Signals, Pearson Education,
2002
2. Lawrence Rabiner and Biing-Hwang Juang, “Fundamentals of Speech Recognition”,
Pearson Education, 2003.
REFERENCES
1. Daniel Jurafsky and James H Martin, “Speech and Language Processing – An Introduction
to Natural Language Processing, Computational Linguistics, and Speech Recognition”,
Pearson Education, 2002.
2. Frederick Jelinek, “Statistical Methods of Speech Recognition”, MIT Press, 1997.
3. Steven W. Smith, “The Scientist and Engineer‟s Guide to Digital Signal Processing”,
California Technical Publishing, 1997.
4. Thomas F Quatieri, “Discrete-Time Speech Signal Processing – Principles and Practice”,
Pearson Education, 2004.
5. Claudio Becchetti and Lucio Prina Ricotti, “Speech Recognition”, John Wiley and Sons,
1999.
6. Ben Gold and Nelson Morgan, “Speech and Audio Signal Processing, Processing and
Perception of Speech and Music”, Wiley- India Edition, 2006.
198
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
IV Year B. Tech ECE – II sem L T/P/D C
Elective - IV 3 0 3
(5EC84)AD-HOC WIRELESS NETWORKS
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Course Objectives
• To learn about fundamentals of Ad-hoc wireless networks.
• To learn about different types of MAC and ad-hoc routing protocols.
• Be expose to the TCP issues in Ad-hoc networks.
• Learn the architecture and protocols of wireless sensor networks.
• To learn about Qos and different power management schemes.
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Explain the concepts, network architectures and applications of ad hoc wireless sensor
networks
• Analyze the protocol design issues of ad hoc wireless sensor networks
• Evaluate the QoS related performance measurements of ad hoc and sensor networks
UNIT I
Introduction
Fundamentals of Wireless Communication Technology – The Electromagnetic Spectrum – Radio
propagation Mechanisms – Characteristics of the Wireless Channel -mobile ad hoc networks
(MANETs) and wireless sensor networks (WSNs) :concepts and architectures. Applications of Ad
Hoc and Sensor networks. Design Challenges in Ad hoc and Sensor Networks.
UNIT II
Mac Protocols for Ad Hoc Wireless Networks
Issues in designing a MAC Protocol- Classification of MAC Protocols- Contention based
protocols- Contention based protocols with Reservation Mechanisms- Contention based protocols
with Scheduling Mechanisms – Multi channel MAC-IEEE 802.11
UNIT III
Routing Protocols and Transport Layer In Ad Hoc Wireless Networks
Issues in designing a routing and Transport Layer protocol for Ad hoc networks- proactive routing,
reactive routing (on-demand), hybrid routing- Classification of Transport Layer solutions-TCP over
Ad hoc wireless Networks.
UNIT IV
Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNS) And Mac Protocols
Single node architecture: hardware and software components of a sensor node - WSN Network
architecture: typical network architectures-data relaying and aggregation strategies -MAC layer
protocols: self-organizing, Hybrid TDMA/FDMA and CSMA based MAC- IEEE 802.15.4.
199
UNIT V
WSN Routing, localization & QOS
Issues in WSN routing – OLSR- Localization – Indoor and Sensor Network Localization-absolute
and relative localization, triangulation-QOS in WSN-Energy Efficient Design-Synchronization-
Transport Layer issues.
TEXT BOOKS
1. C. Siva Ram Murthy and B. S. Manoj, “Ad Hoc Wireless Networks Architectures and
Protocols”, Prentice Hall, PTR, 2004.
REFERENCES
1. Carlos De Morais Cordeiro, Dharma Prakash Agrawal “Ad Hoc & Sensor Networks: Theory
and Applications”, World Scientific Publishing Company, 2006.
2. Feng Zhao and Leonides Guibas, "Wireless Sensor Networks", Elsevier Publication - 2002.
3. Holger Karl and Andreas Willig “Protocols and Architectures for Wireless Sensor Networks”,
Wiley, 2005
4. Kazem Sohraby, Daniel Minoli, & Taieb Znati, “Wireless Sensor Networks-Technology,
Protocols, and Applications”, John Wiley, 2007.
5. Anna Hac, “Wireless Sensor Network Designs”, John Wiley, 2003.
200
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - IV 3 0 3
(5EC85)CPLD AND FPGA ARCHITECTURES
Pre-requisites
• Digital Logic Design
Course Objectives
• To Learn architectures and technologies of various Programmable Logic Devices
• To introduce state machines for sequential circuit design and petrinets for parallel
controllers.
• To describe Placement and Routing algorithms for FPGAs.
• To gain knowledge about EDA Tools for FPGAs & ASICs
Course Outcomes
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the various architectures of Programmable Logic Devices
• Design real time applications using state machines and petrinets.
• Apply EDA tools for the design of digital circuits.
UNIT I
Programmable logic
Combinational logic - PLD’S- ROM, PLA, PAL, PGA, Sequential programmable logic devices.
CPLDs
Features, programming and applications using complex programmable logic devices Altera
series – Max 5000/7000 series and Altera FLEX logic- 10000 series CPLD, Cypress FLASH 370
Device technology, Lattice PLSI’s architectures – Speed performance and in system
programmability.
UNIT II
FPGAs
Field Programmable gate arrays- Logic blocks, routing architecture, design flow , technology
mapping for FPGAs, Programming technologies, Xilinx XC4000,Virtex-II FPGA,Spartan-3 FPGA
and ALTERA’s FLEX 8000/10000 FPGAs, ACTEL’s ACT-1,2,3 and their speed performance.
UNIT III
State machines
Linked state machine, one hot state machine, petrinets for state machines-Basic concepts,
properties, extended petrinets for parallel controllers, traffic light controller.
201
UNIT IV
Placement
objectives Min-cut based placement, iterative improvement placement, Routing- objectives ,
segmented channel routing maze routing, routability estimation , net delays, computing signal
delay in RC tree networks.
UNIT V
EDA Tools
Digital front end digital design tools for FPGAs and ASICs: Using mentor graphics EDA tools:
FPGA Advantage, Simulation, synthesis, floor planning, Place and Route (PAR), Configuration of
FPGA, Case studies of multiplexers, counters.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Field Programmable Gate Array Technology - S Trimberger, Edr, Kluwer Academic
Publications,1994.
2. Field Programmable Gate Arrays, John V.Oldfield, Richard C Dore, Wiley Publications.
REFERENCES
1. Digital System Design Using VHDL – Charles H Roth, Jr. Thomson, 1998.
2. Digital Design Using Field Programmable Gate Array, P.K.Chan and S. Mourad, Prentice
Hall, 1994,
3. Application – Specific Integrated Circuits – Michael John Sebastian Smith, Addison Wesley
Professional ,1997.
4. Field programmable gate array, S. D. Brown, R.J.Francis, J.Rose ,Z.G.Vranesic, BSP, 2007.
5. Digital Systems Design with FPGA’s and CPLDs – Ian Grout, Elsevier, 2009.
202
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
Elective - IV 3 0 3
(5EI07) BIO-MEDICAL INSTRUMENTATION
(Common to ECE & EIE)
Course Objectives
• Identify and obtain biological parameters and relationship between them.
• Understand the principles involved in acquiring different bio-signals.
• Represent these principles in the form of mathematical equations.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply fundamental knowledge of mathematics mixed with electronics and use it for
designing bio amplifiers.
• Design suitable bio amplifiers in acquiring different bio signals.
• understand the concepts of therapeutic devices and apply them for solving the appropriate
problem.
• understand modern imaging equipment like CT, MRI, etc.
UNIT I: Bio Potential Signals and Electrodes
Bio-signals and their characteristics, organization of cell, Nernst equation of membrane, Resting
and Action potentials.
Bio-amplifiers, characteristics of medical instruments, problems encountered with measurements
from living systems.
Bio-potential electrodes – Body surface recording electrodes, Internal electrodes, micro
electrodes.
Bio-chemical transducers – reference electrode, the pH electrodes, Blood gas electrodes.
Anatomy of vision, electrophysiology of the Eye (ERG) Spatial properties of ERG, the
electrooculogram (EOG),
UNIT II: Cardiovascular Instrumentation
Heart and cardiovascular system Heart electrical acvitity, blood pressure and heart sounds.
Cardiovascular measurements electro cardiography – electroeardiogram, ECG Amplifier,
Electrodes and leads, ECG recorder principles.Types of ECG recorders. Principles of blood
pressure and blood flow measurement.
UNIT III: Neurological Instrumentation
Neurological Instrumentation - neuronal communication, electro encepherogram (EEG), EEG
Measurements EEG electrode-placement system, interpretation of EEG, EEG system Block
diagram, pre-amplifiers and amplifiers
EMG block diagram and Stimulators
203
UNIT IV: Equipments for Critical Care
Therapeutic equipment - Pacemaker, Defibrillator, Shortwave diathermy, Hemodialysis machine.
Respiratory Instrumentation - Mechanism of respiration, Spirometry, Pneumotachograph,
Ventilators.
UNIT V: Principles of Medical Imaging
Modern medical imaging systems-Radiography, computed Radiography, Computed Tomography
(CT), Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), Nuclear Medicine, Single Photon Emission Computed
Tomography (SPECT), Positron Emission Tomography (PET), Ultrasonography, Introduction to
Telemedicine.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Hand-book of Biomedical Instrumentation – by R.S. Khandpur, McGraw-Hill, 2003.
2. Medical Instrumentation, Application and Design – by John G. Webster, John Wiley.
REFERENCES
1. Biomedical Instrumentation and Measurements – by Leslie Cromwell, F.J. Weibell, E.A.
Pfeiffer, PHI.
2. Principles of Applied Biomedical Instrumentation – by L.A. Geoddes and L.E. Baker, John
Wiley and Sons.
3. Introduction to Biomedical equipment technology-by Joseph Carr and Brown.
204
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EC92) TECHNICAL SEMINAR
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 0 2
(5EC93) COMPREHENSIVE VIVA-VOCE
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ECE – II Sem L T/P/D C
0 20 10
(5EC94) PROJECT
205
