SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/mtechsyl/r15mauto.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE
AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
M. T ech.
AUTOMATION
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2015-2016)
VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous Institute, Accredited by NAAC with ‗A‘ Grade
NBA Accreditation for CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT B.Tech. Programmes
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi, Affiliated to JNTUH
Recognized as ―College with Potential for Excellence‖ by UGC
Vignana Jyothi Nagar, Pragathi Nagar, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500 090, TS, India.
Telephone No: 040-2304 2758/59/60, Fax: 040-23042761
E-mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
1
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
Academic Regulations - M.Tech. Programme
(Applicable for the batches admitted from the academic year 2015-2016)
1. Introduction
Academic programmes of the institute are governed by rules and regulations as approved
by the Academic Council of the institute.
These academic rules and regulations are effective from the academic year 2015-16, for
the students admitted into two year post graduate programme offered by the college
leading to Master of Technology (M. Tech.) degree in different specializations offered by
the departments of Civil Engineering, Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Mechanical
Engineering, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Computer Science and
Engineering, Information Technology and Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering.
The M.Tech. degree of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad shall be
conferred on students who are admitted to the programme after fulfilling all the
requirements for the award of the degree.
1.1 Eligibility for Admissions
Admission to the above program shall be made subject to the eligibility and qualifications
prescribed from time to time. Admissions shall be made on the basis of GATE Rank and
merit rank obtained at an Entrance Test conducted by the TSSCHE or as decided by
TSSCHE subject to reservations prescribed by the university/ State Government from time
to time.
2. Programmes of study
The following two year M.Tech. degree programmes of study are offered by the
departments at VNR VJIET.
Department Specializations
1. Advanced Manufacturing Systems
ME 2. Automation
3. CAD/CAM
1. Highway Engineering
CE 2. Structural Engineering
3 Geotechnical Engineering
1. Power Electronics
EEE
2. Power Systems
1. Software Engineering
CSE
2. Computer Science and Engineering
1. VLSI System Design
ECE
2. Embedded Systems
EIE Electronics and Instrumentation
IT Computer Networks and Information Security
2
 ‘ENGLISH’ language is used as the medium of instruction in all the above
programmes.
3. Attendance requirements
Each academic year shall be divided into two semesters, each of 90 Instructions days,
excluding examination, evaluation, declaration of results etc.
3.1 A student shall be eligible to appear for the semester end examinations in subject if he /
she acquire a minimum of 75% of attendance in that subject.
3.2 Shortage of attendance up to 10% in any subject (i.e., attendance of 65% and above
and below 75%) in a semester may be condoned by the Institute Academic
Committee based on the rules prescribed by the Academic Council of the Institute
from time to time.
3.3 A student shall get minimum required attendance in at least three (03) theory subjects
in the present semester to get promoted to the next semester. In order to qualify for the
award of the M.Tech. degree, the student shall complete all the academic requirements of
the subjects, as per the course structure.
3.4 Shortage of attendance below 65% shall in NO case be condoned.
3.5 A stipulated fee shall be payable towards condonation of shortage of attendance.
3.6 In case the student secures less than the required attendance in any subject(s), he shall
not be permitted to appear for the semester end examination in that subject(s). He shall re-
register for the subject when offered next.
4. Evaluation
i. The performance of a student in each semester shall be evaluated subject–wise with a
maximum of 100 marks for theory and 100 marks for practical subjects. In addition,
mini-project and comprehensive viva-voce shall be evaluated for 100 marks
respectively.
ii. For theory subjects, the distribution shall be 40 marks for mid-term evaluation and 60
marks for the semester end examination.
 Mid-Term Evaluation (40 M):
Mid-term evaluation consists of mid-term examination (30 M) and assignment/objective
test/ case study/course project (10 M).
 Mid-term examination (30 M):
 For theory subjects, two mid-term examinations shall be conducted in each semester
as per the academic calendar. Each mid-term examination shall be evaluated for 30
marks.
 Pattern of Mid-term examination:
3 X 10M = 30 M (three internal choice questions one from each UNIT shall be given,
the student has to answer ONE question from each UNIT)
 There shall be TWO mid-term examinations for each subject and the average of two
mid-term examinations shall be considered for calculating final mid-term examination
marks in that subject.
3
 Assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project (10 M):
 Two assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project shall be given to the
students covering the syllabus of first mid-term and second mid-term examinations
respectively and evaluated for 10 marks each.
 The first assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project shall be submitted
before first mid-term examination and the second one shall be submitted before
second mid-term examination.
 The average of 2 assignments shall be taken as final assignment marks.
iii. For practical subjects, there shall be a continuous evaluation during the semester for
40 marks and 60 marks for semester end examination. Out of the 40 marks, day-to-
day work in the laboratory shall be evaluated for 10 marks, and 15 marks for
practical examination and 15 marks for laboratory record.
 Semester End Examination (60 M):
(a) Theory Courses
Question paper pattern for semester end examination (60 Marks)
 Paper shall consist of 05 questions of 10 marks each. (05X12M = 60 M)
 There shall be 01 question from each unit with internal choice.
(b) Practical Courses
Each laboratory course shall be evaluated for 60 marks. The semester end examination
shall be conducted by two examiners, one Internal and other external concerned with the
subject of the same / other department / Industry. The evaluation shall be as per the
standard format.
4.1. Evaluation of Mini-Project: There shall be two presentations during the first year, one in
each semester. For mini-project 1 and mini-project 2, a student under the supervision of a
faculty member, shall collect the literature on a topic, critically review the literature, carry
out the mini-project, submit it to the department in a report form and shall make an oral
presentation before the departmental Project Review Committee (PRC). The Departmental
PRC consists of Head of the Department, supervisor and one senior faculty member of the
department. For each mini-project there shall be only internal evaluation of 100 marks. A
student has to secure a minimum of 50% to be declared successful.
4.2. There shall be a comprehensive viva-voce in II year I semester. The comprehensive viva-
Voce shall be conducted by a committee consisting of Head of the Department and two
senior faculty members of the department. The comprehensive viva-voce is aimed to
assess the students‘ understanding in various subjects studied during the M.Tech.
programme of study. The comprehensive viva-voce shall be evaluated for 100 marks by
the committee. There are no internal marks for the comprehensive viva-voce. A student
must secure a minimum of 50% to be declared successful.
4.3. A student shall be deemed to have secured the minimum academic requirement in a
subject if he secures a minimum of 40% of marks in the semester end examination and a
minimum aggregate of 50% of the total marks in the semester end examination and mid-
term evaluation taken together.
4
4.4. A student shall be given one chance to re-register, after completion of the course work, for
each subject, provided the internal marks secured by a student are less than 50% and he
has failed in the semester end examination. In such a case student may re-register for the
subject(s) and secure required minimum attendance. Attendance in the re-registered
subject(s) has to be calculated separately to become eligible to write the end examination
in the re-registered subject(s). Re-registration for the subjects is allowed only if those
particular re-registration subjects are the hindrance for the award of Degree. Re-
registration is allowed in this case provided the student doesn‘t have any subject(s) yet to
pass other than the re-registration subjects where the internal marks are less than 50%
with prior permission.
4.5. Laboratory examination for M.Tech. courses must be conducted with two examiners, one
of them being laboratory class teacher and second examiner shall be a teacher of same
specialization either external or a teacher from the same department other than the teacher
who conducted laboratory classes for that batch.
5. Evaluation of Project / Dissertation Work.
5.1 Registration of Project Work: A student shall be permitted to register for the project work
after satisfying the attendance requirement of all the subjects (theory and practical
subjects).
5.2 A Project Review Committee (PRC) shall be constituted with at least four members namely
HOD, PG coordinator of the M.Tech. programme, project supervisor and one senior faculty
member of same specialization.
5.3 After getting permission as per 5.1, a student has to submit, in consultation with the project
supervisor, the title, objective and plan of action of his project work to the Departmental
PRC for its approval. Only after obtaining the approval of PRC, the student can initiate the
project work.
5.4 If a student wishes to change his supervisor or topic of the project he can do so with the
approval of PRC. However, the committee shall examine whether the change of
topic/supervisor leads to a major change of his initial plans of project proposal. If so, the
date of registration for the project work shall be the date of change of supervisor or topic
as the case may be.
5.5 Internal evaluation of the project shall be on the basis of the seminars (Project reviews)
conducted during the second year by the PRC. A student shall submit draft report in a
spiral bound copy form.
5.6 The work on the project shall be initiated in the beginning of the second year and the
duration of project is for two semesters. A student is permitted to submit Project work only
after successful completion of theory and practical course with the approval of PRC not
earlier than 240 days from the date of registration of the project work. For the approval of
PRC the student shall submit the draft copy of thesis to the Head of the Department
(Through project supervisor and PG coordinator) and shall make an oral presentation
before the PRC.
The student is eligible to submit project work if he has published at least one paper
covering 70% of the project work and presented his project work in Show and Tell activity.
5.7 After approval of PRC, every student has to submit three copies of the project dissertation
certified by the supervisor to the Department.
5
5.8 The dissertation shall be adjudicated by one examiner selected by the Chief
Superintendent. For this, HOD shall submit a panel of 3/ 5 examiners, who are eminent in
that field with the help of the concerned guide.
5.9 If the report of the examiner is not favourable, the student shall revise and resubmit the
Dissertation, within the time frame as prescribed by PRC. If the report of the examiner is
unfavourable again, the dissertation shall be summarily rejected.
5.10 If the report of the examiner is favorable, viva-voce examination shall be conducted by a
board consisting of the project supervisor, Head of the Department and the external
examiner who adjudicated the Thesis. The Board shall jointly report students work as:
A. Excellent
B. Good
C. Satisfactory
D. Unsatisfactory
Head of the Department shall coordinate and make arrangements for the conduct of viva-
voce examination. The student has to secure any one of the grades as Excellent, Good or
Satisfactory on his dissertation and viva-voce. If the report of the viva-voce is
unsatisfactory, the student shall retake the viva-voce examination after three months,
making modifications as suggested. If he fails to get a satisfactory report at the second
viva-voce examination, he has to re-register for the project work as mentioned in clause
5.1. However, the student may select a new guide or new topic or both with the approval of
the PRC and submit the project dissertation with a minimum of 240 days from the date of
re-registration. Of course, this shall not prejudice the clause 6.1 below.
6. Award of Degree and Class
A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the M.Tech. degree, if he pursues a
course of study and complete it successfully for not less than two academic years and
not more than four academic years.
6.1 A student, who fails to fulfil all the academic requirements for the award of the degree
within four academic years from the year of his admission, for any reason whatsoever,
shall forfeit his seat in M.Tech. Course.
6.2 A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 84 credits and
earn 84 credits. Marks obtained in all 86 credits shall be considered for the calculation of
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA).
6.3 CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points in two year M.Tech. degree
programme is as follows:
 Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the total marks obtained in mid-term
evaluation and semester end examinations.
6
 Grades and Grade points are assigned as given below.
Grade Points(GP)
Marks Obtained Grade Description of Grade
Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 B Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 C Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 D Pass 6.00
<50 F Fail
Not Appeared the Exam(s) N Absent
The student is eligible for the award of the M.Tech degree with the class as mentioned in the
following table.
CGPA Class
>= 8.0 First Class with Distinction
>= 7.0 and <8.0 First Class
>= 6.0 and < 7.0 Second Class
 Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
 The performance of each student at the end of the each semester shall be indicated in
terms of SGPA. The SGPA shall be calculated as below:
Where Ci = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‗i‘
Gi = Grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to the subject ‗i‘
i = 1,2,…..p represent the number of subjects in a particular semester
Note: SGPA is calculated and awarded for the students who pass all the courses in a
semester.
 Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA):
The CGPA of a student for the entire programme shall be calculated as given below:
 Assessment of the overall performance of a student shall be obtained by calculating
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA), which is weighted average of the grade points
obtained in all subjects during the course of study.
7
Where Cj = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‗j‘
Gj = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to that subject ‗j‘
j = 1,2,….m represent the number of subjects of the entire program.
 Grade lower than D in any subject shall not be considered for CGPA calculation. The
CGPA shall be awarded only when the student acquires the required number of credits
prescribed for the program.
 Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
7. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to the Institute, or if any case of indiscipline is pending
against him, the result of the student may be withheld and he shall not be allowed into the
next higher semester. The award or issue of the provisional certificate and the degree may
also be withheld in such cases. This delay shall not prejudice clauses Nos.6.0 and 6.1.
8. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or any other
academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and when they become
eligible. They have to take up Equivalent subjects, as substitute subjects in place of
repeated subjects as decided by the Chairman of the BoS of the respective departments.
He/She shall be admitted under the regulation of the batch in which he/she is readmitted.
9. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each semester shall be 90 instruction days.
10. General
10.1 The academic regulations should be read as a whole for purpose of any interpretation.
10.2 In case of any doubt or ambiguity in the interpretation of the above rules, the decision of
the Principal is final.
10.3 The Institute may change or amend the academic regulations and syllabi at any time and
the changes and amendments made shall be applicable to all the students with effect from
the date notified by the Institute.
10.4 Wherever the words he, him or his occur, they shall also include she, her and hers.
11. Supplementary Examination
Supplementary examinations shall be conducted along with regular semester end
examinations. (During even semester regular examinations, supplementary examinations
of odd Semester and during odd semester regular examinations, supplementary
examinations of even semester shall be conducted).
8
Vision
 To develop into a Centre of Excellence in Education and Research in
the field of Mechanical Engineering, consistent with the contemporary
and future needs of the country
Mission
 To impart high quality education by using modern pedagogical tools
so as to make the students technically competent in their chosen
fields and socially responsible
 To inculcate quality research by developing linkages with Industry
and R & D organizations in India & abroad
9
M.TECH. PROGRAMME OBJECTIVES:
 To prepare students for successful careers in their domain that meets the need of Indian and
global/multinational organizations.
 To provide a strong foundation in the chosen specialization that enables students to visualize,
analyze and solve domain specific mechanical engineering problems.
 To inculcate in students a zeal and attitude for comprehending state of the art advancements
and undertake further work in the chosen specialization.
 To prepare students for undertaking research in the chosen specialization and to function
effectively in teams/groups.
 To provide students with an academic environment that fosters excellence leadership, ethical
codes and guidelines and develops for life-long learning for a successful professional career.
M.TECH. PROGRAMME OUTCOMES:
 Engineering Knowledge: Graduates will demonstrate in-depth knowledge of automation
technologies and systems, mathematics, sciences, essential computational
techniques/procedures that help in problem solving. Graduates will be able to assimilate the
emerging developments in the field and enhance their understanding.
 Problem Analysis: Graduates will be able to demonstrate ability to identify, critically analyze,
conceptualize, formulate and solve automation and manufacturing technology related problems
in the specific area with due consideration for safety, environmental, cultural and societal
concerns.
 Design and Development of Solutions: Graduates will demonstrate ability to design a
component, a process or a system in manufacturing or inter/multi-disciplinary region involving
automation by following research methodology while arriving at a solution working in
engineering and science laboratories as teams, involving review of literature, prepare a model,
conduct experiments, analyze and interpret data.
 Modern Tool Usage: Graduates will demonstrate skills to use modern engineering tools,
equipments, processes, state-of-the-art software tools for modeling and analysis while solving
problems and drawing inferences in the specialized areas with due regard to their limitations
and applicability.
 Individual and Team Work: Graduates will demonstrate ability to work as an individual as well
as a team member/lead and play his role appropriately in the group with a proper
understanding of group dynamics, contribute positively to collaborative multidisciplinary
scientific research with positive attitude, open mindedness and objectivity for furtherance of
individuals and groups‘ learning.
 Ethics: Graduates will demonstrate knowledge, understanding and application of Professional
and Ethical responsibilities, intellectual integrity and human values in all the dealings.
 Communication: Graduates will demonstrate ability to communicate in both verbal and written
form and present complex engineering activities confidently and effectively.
 Project Management and Finance: Graduates will demonstrate ability to administer and
regulate projects with emphasis on time management, financial management and personnel
management to both individuals own work and the teams collective work.
 The Engineer and Society: Graduates will demonstrate a broad understanding of impact of
engineering solutions on economy, environment and society while arriving at solutions so as to
avoid ill-effects and are sustainable.
 Life Long Learning: Graduates will demonstrate recognition of the need and engage in life-
long learning, keep abreast with regard to nuances in the chosen field to improve knowledge,
proficiency and competence on a continuous basis.
 Self and Reflective Learning: Graduates will demonstrate ability to learn, observe, reflect and
evaluate ones‘ own activities for identifying, critically examining and rectifying the mistakes
without outside help and thus self-learn.
10
M.TECH. (AUTOMATION):
Degree: M.Tech. Specialization: Automation
2 Years 2 semesters – Course work
Duration: Details:
(4 semesters) 2 semesters – Project
Mode: Full-time Year of starting: 2011
Intake: 18 Regulations: R15
 Overview of the programme:
Automation is a technique, method or system concerned with the use of automatic machines,
electronic devices etc. to operate or control a process so that the human intervention is
reduced to a minimum. Automation profession includes ―everyone involved in the creation and
application of technology to monitor and control the production and delivery of products and
services. This two year (four semesters) programme is designed to address the challenges in
automation of manufacturing systems. Automation crosses all functions within industry from
installation, integration, and maintenance to design, procurement, and management.
Automation even reaches into the marketing and sales functions of these industries. The
programme has been running for the last 02 years and is regularly updated in line with the
subject developments and industrial practices. It involves a very broad range of
technologies including robotics and expert systems, telemetry and communications, electro-
optics, process measurement and control, sensors, wireless applications, systems integration,
test measurement etc.
 Objectives:
 To provide a comprehensive foundation of the basics of automation in manufacturing
systems.
 To understanding of specific advanced and emerging manufacturing technologies.
 To encourage work on real industrial problems, giving confidence in the ideas underlying
manufacturing and the practicalities of implementing these ideas.
 Outcomes:
To enable the students
 to design and implement advanced control systems, intelligent instrumentation, and
automation solutions for industrial systems
 to perform testing, analysis and evaluation of the automated systems.
 Opportunities:
The spectrum of Automation programme is broad, ranging from Product development, Aircraft
modeling, Instrumentation, Active damping controls, Network management, Thermo-Structural
Testing on Aerospace Vehicle, Satellite altitude control, Safety for Automatic Transmission
Vehicles, Machine learning and data mining, Remote monitoring of solar plants. Students will
have ample opportunities to work in these areas in designing, research and development and
product manufacture.
11
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
M. Tech. (AUTOMATION)
(R15 Regulation)
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Code Group Subject Name L P Credit
AMS01 Automation in Manufacturing 3 1 4
AUT01 Core Modern Control Engineering 3 1 4
AMS03 Precision Engineering 3 1 4
Concurrent Engineering & Product Life Cycle
AUT11 3 0
Management
Elective – I
AUT12 Micro-Electro Mechanical Systems 3 0
&
AMS13 Design for Manufacturing & Assembly 3 0 3+3
Elective – II
AUT13 Experimental Techniques & Data Analysis 3 0
Basket
AMS12 Materials Technology 3 0
AMS15 Mechatronics 3 0
Industrial Automation
AUT31 Open Elective
Design and Manufacturing of MEMS and Micro
AUT32 – I 3 0 3
Systems
AMS32
Quality and Reliability Engineering
Manufacturing Simulation & Precision
AMS51 Lab 0 3 2
Engineering lab
AUT61 Mini Project - I 0 0 4
Total 18 3 27
12
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
M. Tech. (AUTOMATION)
(R15 Regulation)
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Code Group Subject Name L P Credit
AUT02 Fluid Power Systems 3 1 4
AUT03 Core Intelligent Instrumentation & Manufacturing 3 1 4
AUT04 Industrial Robot Technology 3 1 4
AUT21 Microprocessor & Applications 3 0
AUT22 Elective – III Neural Network & Fuzzy Systems 3 0
AMS21 & Quality Engineering in Manufacturing 3 0
3+3
AUT23 Elective – IV Stress Analysis and Vibrations 3 0
AUT24 Basket Smart Materials & Structures 3 0
AUT25 Optimization Techniques and Applications 3 0
AMS41 Open Elective Industrial Safety Management
AUT41 – II Plastics & Composites 3 0 3
AUT42 Artificial Intelligence & Expert Systems
AUT52 Lab Automation & Robotics Lab 0 3 2
AUT62 Mini Project - II 0 0 4
Total 18 3 27
13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY HYDERABAD
M.Tech. (AUTOMATION)
(R15 Regulation)
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Group Subject Name L P Credit
AUT63 Comprehensive Viva Voce 0 0 4
AUT71 Internship / Dissertation Phase – I 0 0 8
Total 0 0 12
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Group Subject Name L P Credit
AUT72 Dissertation Phase – II 0 0 18
Total 0 0 18
14
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M. Tech. (AMS, Automation & CAD/CAM) L P C
3 1 4
(AMS01) AUTOMATION IN MANUFACTURING
Course Prerequisites: Industrial engineering and Manufacturing technology concepts.
Course Objectives:
 Understand the basic principles of automation and tool transfer, implementation of automated
flow line.
 Understand design aspects and analysis of material handling system.
 Understand ways of improving line balance and solving line balancing problems.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Implement concepts of a productive system in automation.
 Apply the concepts of automated flow lines and design technologies.
 Apply it in material handling systems for balancing assembly lines.
UNIT I:
Fundamentals of Manufacturing Automation: Basic Principles of automation, Types of automated systems, Degrees of
automation, Automation - reasons, Production operations and automation strategies, Plant Layout, Production concepts and
mathematical models, Design the parts for automation, Automatic loading Systems.
UNIT II:
High Volume Production Systems: Automated flow lines, Methods of work flow, Transport transfer mechanisms, buffer
storage, Control functions, Automation for machining operations, Design and fabrication considerations.
UNIT III:
Analysis of Automated Flow Lines: Analysis of transfer lines without storage, Partial automation, Automated flow lines with
storage buffers, Implementation of automatic flow lines, Line balancing problems, Considerations in assemble line design.
UNIT IV:
Assembly Systems and Line Balance; Manual assembly lines, Line balancing problem, Methods of line balancing, Ways to
improve line balancing, Flexible manual assembly lines, Automated assembly systems, Analysis of multi station assembly.
Manufacturing Cells, Automated Cells, Analysis of Single Station Cells
UNIT V:
Automated Material Handling: Types of equipment and functions, Design and analysis of material handling system,
Conveyor system, Automated guided vehicle system, Components operation, Types, Design of automated guided vehicles
and applications, Automated storage and Retrieval systems - Types, Basic components and Applications, Design for
Automated Assembly, Communication Systems in Manufacturing
Text Books & References:
1. Mikell P. Groover, ―Automation, Production Systems and CIM‖, PHI Pvt., Ltd., 1998
2. P. Radha Krishnan & S. Subrahamanyarn and Raju, ―CAD/CAM/CIM‖, New Age International Publishers, 2003.
3. Singh, ―System Approach to Computer Integrated Design and Manufacturing‖, John Wiley 1996.
15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Automation) L P C
3 1 4
(AUT01) MODERN CONTROL ENGINEERING
Course Prerequisites: Electrical and Mechanical Engineering, Physics.
Course Objectives:
 Understand mathematical modeling of control systems.
 Understand frequency time response of first and higher order systems.
 Understand concepts of stability of linear and non linear systems.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Apply fundamental knowledge of mathematics for mathematical modeling of control systems
using differential equations and transfer function.
 Identify areas requiring frequency time response control systems in designing them.
 Stabilize linear and non-linear systems & stabilize the control systems.
UNIT I:
Introduction to open loop and closed loop system
Mathematical modeling of mechanical systems, Transient response of first and second order systems, Root locus and Bode
plots ( only construction) compensators introduction.
UNIT II:
State variables, Transition Matrix, Transformation of variables, Diagonalization of matrix, Canonical form.
UNIT III:
State Variable feed back systems, Closed loop pole zero assignment, Observability and controllability.
UNIT IV:
Introduction to non linear systems, Phase plane method.
UNIT V:
Stability analysis, Routh – Hurwitz Criterion, Nyquist method, Lyapunov method of stability analysis.
Text Books & References:
1. Gopal M, Control Systems Principles and Design, Tata McGraw Hill Company, 1998.
2. Francis Raven H., Automatic Control Engineering, 5th Edition, Tata Mc Graw Hill Company, 1995.
3. Franklin G.F. and Powell J.D., Digital Control of Dynamic Systems, Addison – Wesley, 1980.
16
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (AMS, Automation & CAD/CAM) L P C
3 1 4
(AMS03) PRECISION ENGINEERING
Course Prerequisites: Accuracy and tolerances, geometric dimensioning, machine drawing and production
engineering.
Course Objectives:
 Asses the machine tool accuracy and types of errors, datum features, tolerance zone
conversion, process capability and surface finish.
 understand the tolerance charting techniques.
 Explain the fundamentals of nanotechnology and nanometer accuracy.
 Understand measuring system processing – Mechanical and optical measuring systems.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Apply fundamental knowledge of machine tool accuracy and geometric dimensioning for
Components.
 Apply the concept of process capability while choosing the machine.
 Decide on measuring system for inspection components.
 Apply nanotechnology and nanometer accuracy
UNIT I:
Concepts of Accuracy: Introduction - Concept of Accuracy of Machine Tools - Spindle and Displacement Accuracies - Accuracy of
Numerical Control Systems - Errors due to Numerical Interpolation, Displacement Measurement System and Velocity tags
Geometric Dimensioning and Tolerancing: Tolerance Zone Conversions - Surfaces, features, Features of Size, Datum
Features - Datum Oddly Configured and Curved Surfaces as Datum Features, Equalizing Datums - Datum Feature of
Representation - Form controls, Orientation Controls - Logical Approach Tolerancing.
UNIT II:
Datum Systems: Design of freedom, Grouped Datum System - different types, two and three mutually perpendicular grouped
datum planes; Grouped datum system with spigot and recess, pin and hole; Grouped Datum system with spigot and recess pair
and tongue - slot pair - Computation of Transnational and rotational accuracy, Geometric analysis and application.
UNIT III:
Tolerance Analysis: Process Capability, Mean, Variance, Skewness, kurtosis, Process Capability Metrics, Cp, Cpk, Cost
aspects, Feature Tolerances, Geometric Tolerances. Surface finish, Review of relationship between attainable tolerance grades
and different machining process, Cumulative effect of tolerances sure fit law, normal law and truncated normal law.
UNIT IV:
Tolerance Charting Techniques: Operation Sequence for typical shaft type of components, Preparation of Process drawings for
different operations, Tolerance worksheets and centrally analysis, Examples, Design features to facilitate machining; Datum
features - functional and manufacturing Components design - Machining Considerations, Redesign for manufactured,
Examples.
UNIT V:
Fundamentals of Nanotechnology: Systems of nanometer accuracies, Mechanism of metal Processing, Nano physical
processing of atomic bit units, Nanotechnology and Electrochemical atomic bit processing.
Measuring Systems Processing: In processing or in-situ measurement of position of processing point, Post process and on-
machine measurement of dimensional features and surface, Mechanical and optical measuring systems.
Text Books:
1. Precision Engineering in Manufacturing/Murthy R.L/New Age International (P) Limited, 1996
2. Geometric Dimensioning and Tolerancing/ James D. Meadows / Marcel Dekker Inc. 1995
References:
1. Nano Technology / Norio Taniguchi / Oxford University Press, 1996.
2. Engineering Design - A systematic Approach / Matousek / Blackie & Son Ltd., London.
17
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Automation) L P C
Elective – I & II 3 0 3
(AUT11) CONCURRENT ENGINEERING AND PRODUCT LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT
Course Prerequisites: Basic Mechanical Engineering, Industrial Engineering background.
Course Objectives:
 Understand the concepts of concurrent engineering with respect to its trends, methodologies
and design aspects.
 To study the role of computers in implementing concurrent engineering.
 To study the concepts of product life cycle management in under relation to its need,
components and role of human resource.
Course Outcomes:
Student would be able to:
 Identify the trends, techniques of concurrent engineering.
 Apply the use of IT in concurrent engineering.
 Analyze and identify the various components of product life cycle.
UNIT I:
Introduction : Extensive definition of Concurrent Engineering (CE), CE design methodologies, Review of CE techniques like
DFM (Design for manufacture), DFA (Design for assembly), QFD (Quality function deployment), RP (Rapid prototyping), TD
(Total design), for integrating these technologies, organizing for CE, CE tool box, Collaborative product development.
UNIT II:
Use of Information Technology: IT supports, Solid modeling, Product data management, Collaborative product commerce,
Artificial Intelligence, expert systems, Software hardware component design.
UNIT III:
Design Stage: Lifecycle design of products, Opportunities for manufacturing enterprises, Modality of concurrent engineering
design, Automated analysis Idealization control, CE in optimal structural design, Real time constraints.
UNIT IV:
Need for PLM: Importance of PLM, Implementing of PLM, Responsibility for PLM, Benefits to different managers,
Components of PLM, Emergence of PLM, Lifecycle problems to resolve, Opportunities to seize.
UNIT V:
Components of PLM: Components of PLM, Product lifecycle activities, Product organizational structure, Human resources in
product lifecycle, Methods, techniques, Practices, Methodologies, Processes, System components in lifecycle, slicing and
dicing the systems, Interfaces, Information, Standards.
Text Books & References:
1. Integrated Product Development M.M.Anderson and IFS Publications
L Hein
2. Design for Concurrent Engineering J. Cleetus CE Research Centre,
Morgantown
3. Concurrent Engineering Fundamentals: Integrated Product Prasad Prentice hall India
Development
4. Concurrent Engineering in Product Design and Development I. Moustapha New Age International
5. Product Lifecycle Management John Stark Springer-Verlag, UK
6. Product Lifecycle Management Michael Grieves McGraw Hill
7. Concurrent Engineering: Automation tools and Technology Andrew Kusiak Wiley Eastern
18
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Automation) L P C
Elective – I & II 3 0 3
(AUT12) MICRO-ELECTRO MECHANICAL SYSTEMS
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Physics, Robotics.
Course Objectives:
 Understand MEMS devices and their applications.
 Understand the principle laws of physics and chemistry that apply in fabricating a MEMS
device and various fabrication techniques.
 Understand the electronic interface and software design tools for MEMS devices.
Course Outcomes:
Student would be able to:
 Apply fundamental knowledge of mathematics, physics and chemistry to analyze practical
micro-systems.
 Experiment or simulate MEMS design using a software.
 Design MEMS for a given application.
UNIT I:
Mechatronics in Products-Semi conductor Sensors and micro electro mechanical Devices – Actuators Hydraulics Actuators –
pneumatic Actuators. Programmable Ligic Controllers (PLC) – basic structure – input/output processing-programming –
Mnemonics Timers – relays and counters – data handling – selection of PLC. Control architecture – Analog – Digital –
Examples of Mechatronic systems from Robotics. Manufacturing, Machine Diagnosis.
UNIT II:
Miniaturization and application – Micro electro mechanical devices and trends in developing them – Miniactuators,
Microsensors, and Micromotors – Priniciples of Operations. Introduction, Absolute and Relative Tolerance in Manufacturing ,
Human Manufacturing , Top-Down Manufacturing Methods, Bottom-Up Approaches.
UNIT III:
Dry Etching – Definitions – Plasmas or Discharges – Ion Etching or Sputtering and Ion – Beam Milling – Plasma etching
(Radical Etching ) – Physical Etching.
Wet Isotropic And Anisotropic Etching – Alignment Patterns – Chemical Etching Models - Etching with Bias And/Or
Illumination Of The Semiconductor – Etch – Stop Techniques – Problems.
UNIT IV:
Physical and Chemical Vapor Deposition – Silk – Screening – Printing – Sol-Gel Deposition Technique, Doctors‘ Blade or
Tape Casting, Plasma Spraying – Deposition and Arraying Methods of Organic Layers in BIOMEMS – Thin versus Thick Film
Deposition – Selection Criteria for Deposition Method.
UNIT V:
Surface Micromachining Processes, Poly-Si and Non-Poly-Si Surface Micromachining Modifications, Surface Micromachining
Modifications – LIGA – Background , LIGA and LIGA – Like Process Steps.
Introduction and exposure to Nanotechnology – Application –Basics of nanofabrication, nano machining, nano assembly.
Text Books & References:
1. David G.Alciatore and - Introduction of Mechatronics and Measurement Systems, McGraw Hill International
Micheal.B.Histand Edition, 1999.
2. HMT - Mechatronics, Tata McGraw Hill Publishing Company Ltd.,
1998.
3. Lawrence J.Kamm - Understanding Electro – Mechanical Engineering, An Introduction to Mechatronics,
Prentice Hall, 2000
4. Marc Madou - Fundamentals of Micro fabrication, CRC Press, 1997.
5. W.Trimmer (ED.) - Micromechanics and MEMS, IEEE Press, 1997.
6. M.Elwenspoek - Silicon Micromachining, Cambridge Press, 1998.
7. R.C.Jaeger - Introduction to Microelectronic Fabrication, Wiley, 1989.
8. Bharat Bhushan(Ed.) - Handbook of Nanotechnology, Springer, 2004.
19
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (AMS, Automation & CAD/CAM) L P C
Elective – I & II 3 0 3
(AMS13) DESIGN FOR MANUFACTURING AND ASSEMBLY
Course Prerequisites: Production technology, Machine Tools, Material Technology
Course Objectives:
 Impart the knowledge on steps involved in design process and material selection
 Understand about the design rules involved in machining and casting
 Understand about the design rules involved in metal joining, forging, extrusion and sheet
metal work
 Understand about the design principles involved in manual and automatic assembly transfer
systems
Course Outcomes:
Student will be able to:
 Apply the knowledge on steps involved in design process and material selection
 Apply the knowledge on design rules involved in machining and casting
 Analyze the design rules involved in metal joining, forging, extrusion and sheet metal work
 Design and analyze the principles involved in manual and automatic assembly transfer
systems
UNIT I:
Introduction: Design philosophy, Steps in Design process, General Design rules for manufacturability, Basic principles of
designing for economical production, Creativity in design.
Materials: Selection of Materials for design, Developments in Material technology, Criteria for material selection, Material
selection, Interrelationship with process selection, Process Selection charts.
UNIT II:
Machining Process: Overview of various machining processes, Design rules for machining, Redesigning of components for
machining ease with suitable examples
Metal Casting: Appraisal of various casting processes, General design considerations for casting, Overview of solidification
simulation in casting design, Product design rules for sand casting, Casting Defects.
UNIT III:
Metal Joining: Appraisal of various welding processes, Factors in design of weldments, General design guidelines, Pre and
post treatment of welds, Effects of thermal stresses in weld joints, Welding Defects, Design of brazed joints.
Forging: Design factors for Forging, Closed die forging design, Parting lines of die drop forging die design
Extrusion & Sheet Metal Work: Design guidelines for extruded sections, Design principles for Punching, Blanking, Bending,
Deep Drawing, Keeler Goodman Forming Line Diagram, Die Design for Blanking.
UNIT IV:
Assembly Advantages: Development of the assembly process, Choice of assembly method, Assembly advantages, Social
effects of automation.
Automatic Assembly Transfer Systems: Continuous transfer, Intermittent transfer, Indexing mechanisms and operator
paced free transfer machine.
UNIT V:
Design of Manual Assembly: Design for assembly fits in the design process, General design guidelines for manual
assembly, Development of the systematic DFA methodology, Assembly efficiency, Classification system for manual handling,
Classification system for manual insertion and fastening, Effect of part symmetry on handling time, Effect of part thickness
and size on handling time, Effect of weight on handling time, Parts requiring two hands for manipulation, Effects of
combinations of factors, Effect of symmetry, Effect of chamfer design on insertion operations, Estimation of insertion time.
Text Books:
1. Geoffrey Boothroyd, ―Assembly Automation and Product Design", Marcel Dekker Inc., NY, 1992.
2. Engineering Design – Material & Processing Approach – George E. Dieter, McGraw Hill Intl. 2nd Ed. 2000.
References:
1. Geoffrey Boothroyd, "Hand Book of Product Design" Marcel and Dekker, N.Y. 1990.
2. A. Delchambre "Computer Aided Assembly Planning‖, Springer London, 1992.
20
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Automation) L P C
Elective – I & II 3 0 3
(AUT13) EXPERIMENTAL TECHNIQUES AND DATA ANALYSIS
Course Prerequisites: Measurements, knowledge of cutting forces, metallurgy, statistical techniques
Course Objectives:
 Understand various measurement techniques used for measuring cutting forces.
 Understand the concepts and techniques involved in microscopy, metallurgical studies and surface
measurements.
 Understand the statistical and taguchi methods used in experimentation.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
 Measure strain displacement ,flow temperature and cutting forces
 Perform microscopic studies for knowing surface morphology and topography
 Utilize the Taguchi methods in conducting the experiments and draw conclusions based on data
obtained.
UNIT I:
Measurement of Cutting Forces : Strain gauge and piezoelectric transducers and their characteristics. Dynamometer
construction, Bridge circuits. Instrumentation and calibration. Displacement and strain measurements by photoelasticity.
Holography, interferometer, Moir techniques, strain gauge rosettes.
UNIT II:
Temperature Measurement: Circuits and instrumentation for different transducers viz, bimetallic, expanding fluid, electrical
resistance, thermister, thermocouples, pyrometers.
Flow Measurement : Transducers for flow measurements of Non-compressible and compressible fluids. Obstruction and
drag methods, Vortex shredding flow meters. Ultrasonic, Laser Dopler and Hotwire anemometer. Flow visualization
techniques shadow graphs. Schlieren photography. Interferometer.
UNIT III:
Metallurgical Studies: Optical and electron microscopy, X-Ray diffraction, Bragg‘s Law and its application for studying
crystal structure and residual stresses. Electron spectroscopy, electron microprobe.
Surface Measurements: Micro hardness, roughness, accuracy of dimensions and forms. 3-D co-ordinate measuring
machines.
UNIT IV:
Experiment design & data analysis : Statistical methods, Randomized block design, Latin and orthogonal squares, factorial
design. Replication and randomization.
Data Analysis: Deterministic and random data, uncertainly analysis, tests for significance : Chi-square, student‘s ‗t‘ test.
Regression modeling, direct and interaction effects. ANOVA, F-test. Time Series analysis, Autocorrelation and
autoregressive modeling.
UNIT V:
Taguchi Methods: Experiment design and planning with Orthogonal arrays and line graphs. Additive cause effect model.
Optimization of response level. Identification of Design and noise factors. Performance evaluation and Optimization by signal
- noise ratios. Concept of loss function and its application.
Text Books & References:
1. Holman, J.P.: Environmental Methods for Engineers, McGraw Hill Int., New York.
2. Venkatesh, V.C., and Chandrasekharan, Experimental Methods in Metal Cutting Prentice Hall of India, Delhi.
3. Davis, O.V.; The Design and Analysis of Industrial Experiments, Longman London.
4. Box and Jenkins; Time Series analysis, Forecasting and control, Holden Day, San Francisco.
5. Dove and Adams, Experimental stress analysis and motion measurement Prentice Hall of India Delhi.
6. Tapan P.Bagchi, Taguchi Methods Explained, Prentice Hall of India, Delhi.
21
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (AMS & Automation) L P C
Elective – I & II 3 0 3
(AMS12) MATERIALS TECHNOLOGY
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics, Chemistry, Metallurgy and Material science
Course Objectives:
 Understand strengthening mechanisms of materials and their properties and relationship
between them.
 Understand the principles of material science applied to material technology.
 Understand how to choose a material for a given application.
Course Outcomes:
Students should be able to:
 Apply fundamental knowledge of mathematics to modeling and analysis of materials.
 Apply strengthening mechanisms to analyze problems by making good assumptions.
 Apply fundamental principles to manufacture different types of components.
UNIT I:
Elasticity in metals and polymers, mechanism of plastic deformation , Role of dislocations, Yield stress, Shear strength of
perfect and real crystals, Strengthening mechanism, Work hardening, Solid solution, Grain boundary strengthening, Poly phase
mixture, Precipitation, Particle Fiber and dispersion strengthening; Effect of temperature, strain and strain rate on plastic behavior,
super plasticity, deformation of non crystalline material
UNIT II:
Griffith's Theory, Stress intensity factor and fracture Toughness, Toughening Mechanisms, Ductile and Brittle transition in
steel, High Temperature Fracture, Creep, Larson - Miller parameter, Deformation and Fracture mechanism maps.
UNIT III:
Fatigue, Low and High cycle fatigue test, Crack Initiation and Propagation mechanism and Pari's Law, Effect of surface and
metallurgical parameters on Fatigue, Fracture of non-metallic materials, fatigue analysis, Sources of failure, procedure of failure
analysis.
UNIT IV:
Motivation for selection, cost basis and service requirements, Selection for Mechanical Properties, Strength, Toughness,
Fatigue and Creep. Selection for Surface durability, Corrosion and Wear resistance, Relationship between Materials Selection
and Processing, Case studies in Materials Selection with relevance to Aero, Auto, Marine, Machinery and Nuclear Applications.
UNIT V:
Modern Metallic Materials: Dual Steels, Micro alloyed, High Strength Low alloy (HSLA) Steel Transformation induced plasticity
(TRIP) Steel, Maraging Steel, Intermetallics, Ni and Ti Aluminides, Smart Materials, Shape Memory alloys, Metallic Glass
Quasi Crystal and Nano Crystalline Materials.
Nonmetallic Materials: Polymeric materials and their molecular structures, Production Techniques for Fibers, Foams, Adhesive
and Coatings, structure, Properties and Applications of Engineering, polymers, Advanced Structural Ceramics WC, TiC, TiG A
,
12 O3, SiC, Si3 N4, CBN and Diamond - properties, Processing and applications.
Text Books:
1. Mechanical Behavior of Materials/Thomas H. Courtney/ 2nd Edition, McGraw Hill, 2000
2. Mechanical Metallurgy/George E. Dieter/McGraw Hill, 1998.
References:
1. Selection and use of Engineering Materials, 3e/Charles J.A/Butterworth Heiremann.
2. Material Science & Metallurgy by Kodgire.
22
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (AMS, Automation & CAD/CAM) L P C
Elective – I & II 3 0 3
(AMS15) MECHATRONICS
Course Prerequisites: Basic electronics, manufacturing, intelligence systems.
Course Objectives:
 To understand mechatronics principles and applications.
 To explore architecture of intelligence machines
 Understand machine design principles for similar applications
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
 Develop motion control algorithm
 Effectively choose /select proper sensor ,actuator to a given application
 Develop an intelligent automated system and manufacturing data base system
UNIT I:
Introduction: Definition of Mechatronics products, Design Considerations and Tradeoffs, Overview of Mechatronic products.
Intelligent Machine vs Automatic. Machine Economic and social justification.
Actuators and Motion Control: Characteristics of Mechanical, electrical, Hydraulic and pneumatic actuators and their
limitations. Control parameters and system objectives. Mechanical configurations. Popular control system configurations. S-
curve, Motor/Load inertia matching, design with linear slides.
UNIT II:
Motion control Algorithms: significance of feed forward control loops, shortfalls, Fundamental concepts of adaptive and
fuzzy control. Fuzzy logic compensatory control of transformation and deformation non-Z linearities.
UNIT III:
Architecture of intelligent Machines: Introduction to Microprocessor and programmable logic controllers and identification
of system, System design Classification. Motion control aspects in Design.
UNIT IV:
Manufacturing Data Bases: Data Base management system, CAD/CAM Data bases, Graphic Data Base, Introduction to
object oriented concepts, objects oriented model language interface, procedures and methods in creation, edition and
manipulation of data.
UNIT V:
Sensor Interfacing: Analog and Digital Sensors for Motion Measurement, Digital Transducers, Human — Machine and
Machine — Machine Interfacing devices and strategy.
Machine Vision: Feature and Pattern Recognition methods, concepts of perception and cognition in decision making.
Text Books & References:
1. Control sensors and actuators, ―Designing Intelligent Machines‖, Open University, London
2. Michel B. Histand and David G. Alciatore, ―Introduction to Mechatronics and Measurement Systems‖ Tata McGraw
Hill.
3. C.W. De Silva, ―Control sensors and actuators‖, 2 Edition, Prentice Hall.
23
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Automation) L P C
Open Elective - I 3 0 3
(AUT31) INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION
Course Prerequisites:
Course Objectives:
 Explain the General function of Industrial Automation
 Identify Safety in Industrial Automation
 Identify Practical Programmable Logic Controller Applications
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 To identify potential areas for automation and justify need for automation
 To select suitable major control components required to automate a process or an activity
 To translate and simulate a real time activity using modern tools and discuss the benefits of
automation.
 To identify suitable automation hardware for the given application.
 To recommend appropriate modeling and simulation tool for the given manufacturing
application.
UNIT I:
Introduction: Automation in Production System, Principles and Strategies of Automation, BasicElements of an Automated
System, Advanced Automation Functions, Levels of Automations. Flow lines & Transfer Mechanisms, Fundamentals of
Transfer Lines. (SLE: Analysis of Transfer Lines)
UNIT II:
Automated Manufacturing Systems: Components, Classification and Overview of Manufacturing Systems, Manufacturing
Cells, GT and Cellular Manufacturing, FMS, FMS and its Planning and Implementation. Quality Control Systems:
Traditional and Modern Quality Control Methods, SPC Tools, Inspection Principles and Practices, Inspection Technologies.
(SLE: Usage of SPC tools using excel or Minitab).
UNIT III:
Control Technologies in Automation: Industrial Control Systems, Process Industries Versus Discrete-Manufacturing
Industries, Continuous Versus Discrete Control, Computer Process and its Forms. (SLE: Sensors, Actuators and other
Control System Components).
UNIT IV:
Computer Based Industrial Control: Introduction & Automatic Process Control
Building Blocks of Automation Systems: LAN, Analog & Digital I/O Modules, SCADA Systems& RTU.
Distributed Control System: Functional Requirements, Configurations & some popular Distributed Control Systems. (SLE:
Display Systems in Process Control Environment.)
UNIT V:
Modeling and Simulation for Plant Automation: Introduction, need for system Modeling, Building Mathematical Model of a
Plant, Modern Tools & Future Perspective. Industrial Control Applications: Cement, Thermal, Water Treatment & Steel
Plants. (SLE: Cases Studies minimum one for Cement, Thermal, Water Treatment & Steel Plants applications)
Text Books:
1. Automation, Production Systems and Computer Integrated Manufacturing- M.P.Groover, Pearson Education.5th edition,
2009.
References:
1. Computer Based Industrial Control- Krishna Kant, EEE-PHI,2nd edition,2010
2. An Introduction to Automated Process Planning Systems- Tiess Chiu Chang & Richard A. Wysk
3. Performance Modeling of Automated Manufacturing Systems,- Viswanandham, PHI, 1st edition,2009.
24
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (AMS, Automation) L P C
Open Elective - I 3 0 3
(AUT32) DESIGN AND MANUFACTURING OF MEMS AND MICRO SYSTEMS
Course Prerequisites: Electrical and Mechanical Engineering, Physics.
Course Objectives:
 Understand the need, general principles and mechanisms of the various components of
MEMS.
 Understand the study of atomic structures, ions, molecular theory, doping of semiconductors,
quantum physics.
 Understand the engineering mechanics analysis on the design of the micro systems and the
study of different materials used for their fabrication processes.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Apply the basics of MEMS and the Microsystems.
 Apply knowledge of engineering science, mechanics, fluid systems, thermal engineering and
material science while designing of systems.
 Design and fabricate a simple MEMS device.
UNIT I:
Overview and working principles of MEMS and Microsystems: MEMS & Microsystems, Evolution of Micro fabrication,
Microsystems & Microelectronics, Microsystems & Miniaturization, Applications of MEMS in Industries, Micro sensors, Micro actuation,
MEMS with Micro actuators Micro accelerometers, Micro fluidics.
UNIT II:
Engineering Science for Microsystems Design and Fabrication: Atomic structure of Matter, Ions and Ionization, Molecular
Theory of Matter and Intermolecular Force, Doping of Semiconductors, The diffusion Process, Plasma Physics,
Electrochemistry, Quantum Physics.
UNIT III:
Engineering Mechanics for Microsystems Design: Static Bending of thin plates, Mechanical Vibration, Thermo Mechanics,
Fracture Mechanics, Thin film Mechanics, Overview of Finite Element Stress Analysis.
UNIT IV:
Thermo Fluid Engineering & Microsystems Design: Overview of Basics of Fluid Mechanics in Macro and Mesoscales, Basic
equations in Continuum Fluid dynamics, Laminar Fluid Flow in Circular Conduits, Computational Fluid Dynamics, Incompressible
Fluid Flow in Micro conduits, Fluid Flow in Sub micrometer and Nanoscale, Overview of Heat conduction in Solids, Heat Conduction in
Multilayered Thin films and in solids in submicrometer scale, Design Considerations, Process Design Mechanical Design, Mechanical
Design using FEM, Design of a Silicon Die for a Micro pressure sensor.
UNIT V:
Materials for MEMS & Microsystems and their fabrication: Substrates and Wafers, Active substrate materials, Silicon as a
substrate material, Silicon Compounds, Silicon Piezoresistors, Gallium Arsenide, Quartz, Piezoelectric Crystals and Polymers,
Photolithography, Ion implantation, Diffusion and oxidation, chemical and physical vapor deposition Etching, Bulk micro
manufacturing, Surface Micromachining, The LIGA Process
Text Book:
1. Tai-Ran Hsu, MEMs & Microsystems: Design & Manufacture, Tata McGraw Hill, ed., 2002
References:
1. Maluf, M. "An Introduction to Microelectromechanical Systems Engineering", Artech House, Boston, 2000.
2. Trimmer, W.S.N. "Micro robots and Micromechanical Systems", Sensors & Actuators, Vol 9, 1989.
3. Trim, D.W. "Applied Partial Differential Equations‖ VPWS-Kent Publishing, Boston 1990.
4. Madou, M. "Fundamentals of Micro fabrication", CRC Press, Boca Raton, 1997.
5. Hsu, T.R. "The Finite Element Method in Thermomechanics", Alien & Unwin, London.
25
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (AMS, Automation & CAD/CAM) L P C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(AMS32) QUALITY AND RELIABILITY ENGINEERING
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Statistics, Quality Control and Industrial Engineering
Course Objectives:
 To understand the approaches and techniques to assess and improve process or product quality
and reliability.
 To understand the robust design methodology in solving practical engineering problems
 To understand the types of factors and principles of Quality Loss Function and to Comprehend
various quality control tools.
 To understand the tools and techniques that can be used early in the design phase to effectively
influence a design from the perspective of system reliability, maintainability, and availability.
Course Outcomes:
Student will be able to:
 Select and use the proper orthogonal arrays in designing, conducting and analyzing the
experiments.
 Utilize the analytical techniques to find out the variation in the data and obtain optimal results in the
process of achieving robust design.
 Identify, formulate, and solve Quality and reliability engineering related problems
 Develop an ability to design a system component or process to meet desired quality within realistic
constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety,
manufacturability and sustainability.
UNIT I:
QUALITY ENGINEERING
Concepts of Quality Engineering, Taguchi‘s Approach to Quality, On-line and Offline Quality Control, Difference from
Classical Approach, Quality Loss Function, System Design, Parameter Design, Tolerance Design, Causes of Variation,
Classification of Parameters, Parameter Design Strategy
UNIT II:
Steps in Robust Design, Quality Characteristics and Objective Functions, Control Factors and their Levels, Noise Factors and
Testing Conditions, Planning and Conducting the Experiment Response Surface Methodology – First- order and Second-
order Models Crossed Array Experiments, Signal-to-Noise Ratios
UNIT III:
RELIABILITY ENGINEERING
The Reliability Function, Failure Rate, Hazard Rate, Bath-tub Curve, Relationship between Various Reliability Characteristics
Component Reliability, Mean-time-to-failure, Time-dependent Hazard Models – Constant-hazard, Linear-hazard, Nonlinear-
hazard and Gamma Models
UNIT IV:
System Reliability, Two-state Modeling, Series Models, Parallel Models, Series-parallel and Parallel-series Models, k-out-of-m
Models, Standby Models, Non-series-parallel Models, Fault-tree Approach to System Modeling
UNIT V:
Maintained Systems, Classification of Maintenance Activities: Breakdown, Preventive and Predictive Maintenance, Condition
Monitoring, Maintainability and Availability, Reliability-centered Maintenance
Text Books & References :
1. Antony J (2003). Design and Experiments for Engineers and Scientists, Butterworth- Heinmann.
2. Cochran W and Cox G (2000). Experimental Designs, 2nd edition, John Wiley and Sons Inc.
3. Dean A and Voss D (2006). Design and Analysis of Experiments, Springer.
4. Jeff Wu C and Hamada M (2000). Experiments: Planning, Analysis and Parameter Design Optimization, John Wiley and
Sons Inc.
5. Montgomery D (2001). Design and Analysis of Experiments, 5th edition, Wiley.
6. Phadke, M (1989). Quality Engineering using Robust Design, Prentice Hall.
7. Ross, P (1996). Taguchi Techniques for Quality Engineering, 2nd edition, McGraw Hill.
8. Balgurusamy E (2003). Reliability Engineering, Tata McGraw Hill.
9. Birolini A (2004). Reliability Engineering: Theory and Practice, 4th edition, Springer.
26
10. Crowder M, Kimber A, Smith R and Sweeting T (1991). Statistical Analysis of Reliability Data, Chapman and Hall.
11. Kumamoto H and Henley E (1996). Probabilistic Risk Assessment and Management for Engineers and Scientists, IEEE
Press.
27
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing Systems & Automation) L P C
0 3 2
(AMS51) MANUFACTUIRNG SIMULATION & PRECISION ENGINEERING LAB
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, FMS, machine Tools, Process Planning, Metrology, Plant Layout, Automation.
Course Objectives:
 Understand and learn simulation packages of discrete time systems for Queuing systems, Job
shop systems and Inventory systems.
 Appreciate the various manufacturing processes, understand the chip morphology and cutting
forces involved.
 Learn the concepts of PLC and microcontrollers.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Simulate and develop inventory, planning and scheduling systems.
 Simulate and develop appropriate production systems for a plant.
 Determine cutting forces, measuring parameters and dimensions of precision parts.
 Use hydraulic and pneumatic circuits and PLC in part manufacture.
MANUFACTURING SIMULATION LABORATORY
1. Simulation of Continuous Time Systems and Discrete Time Systems.
2. Simulation of Queuing Systems
3. Simulation of Inventory Systems.
4. Simulation of Flexible Manufacturing Systems.
5. Simulation of Job Shop Production Systems.
(Problems may include AGV Planning, ASRS Simulation, JIT System, Kanban flow, MRP, Shop Floor scheduling, Material
Handling Systems)
Packages: Use of Flexsim, AutoMOD, PROMOD, SLAM-H, CAFINS Software etc
PRECISION ENGINEERING LABORATORY
1. Study of Chip formation in Turning Process.
2. Determination of Cutting forces in Turning.
3. Study of operation of Tool & Cutter grinder, Cylindrical grinder.
4. Inspection of parts using Toolmakers Microscope, Roughness and Form tester
5. Hydraulic and Pneumatic Circuits.
6. Closed Loop Control Systems.
7. Studies in Programming Logic Controllers (PLC) programming.
8. Studies of Micro Controllers.
28
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem M.Tech. (Automation) L T/P/D C
0 0 4
(AUT61) MINI PROJECT - I
A mini project work shall be carried out on any topic of Automation and a seminar should be given on the same along with a
brief report.
29
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. Automation) L P C
3 1 4
(AUT02) FLUID POWER SYSTEMS
Course Prerequisites: Fluid Mechanics, Thermodynamics, Engineering Mechanics, Mathematics
Curse Objectives:
 Understand about the components used and their functioning in hydraulic systems
 Understand about the hydraulic Control system component
 Understand the feed-back systems used in fluid power circuits
Course Outcomes:
 The student can apply the fundamental knowledge of hydraulic components in mechanical
systems.
 Able to design hydraulic circuits for different applications
 Apply the knowledge of hydraulics and develop feed-back systems for positional, force and
velocity controls.
UNIT I:
Fluid Power Fundamentals – Advantages & dis-advantages of hydraulic systems, Graphical Symbols of hydraulic
components, properties of hydraulic fluids, requirements of hydraulic fluids, filters, particulate contamination and its control.
UNIT II:
Power Generating Components – Positive displacement pumps and their types, Constructional details – Gear pumps, vane
pumps, piston pumps, balancing of pumps, pressure compensated pumps, pressure and flow fluctuations and their control,
Capacities & power
UNIT III:
Control Valves- Pressure control valves - relief valves and their variants, remote control, constructional and functional aspects
of pressure control valves. Directional Control valves – spool type valves, different modes of operation of DC valves, Different
centre configurations, pressure drops in DC valves. 4/3, 4/2 DC valves. Flow control valves, types, check valves,
unidirectional, pilot operated, pressure compensated flow control valves, Metering in, metering out valves.
UNIT IV:
Linear Actuators - Cylinders, Single acting, double acting, constructional features, Cushioning, Force and velocity
calculations.
Rotary Actuators - Types of hydro-motors, Gear, vane, piston types, limited rotation vane motors. Design features, Torque
and speed calculations.
Hydraulic Circuits – Manual, automatic, regenerative, Application in press tools, Machine tools, Circuits with Hydraulic
accumulators.
UNIT V:
Feed-back systems – Feed-back elements, Transducers, Copying valves, EH Servo Valves & systems, Transmission
systems, Applications
Text Books & References:
1. Oil hydraulic systems – Principles and Maintenance, S. R. MAJUMDAR, McGraw Hill
2. Introduction To Fluid Power, JAMES L. JOHNSON, Thomson Learning
3. Fluid Power with Applications, Anthony Esposito, Pearson Education
30
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Automation) L P C
3 1 4
(AUT03) INTELLIGENT INSTRUMENTATION AND MANUFACTURING
Course Prerequisites: Micro controllers, PLC s.
Course Objectives:
 Understand the working principle of advance controllers used in manufacturing industries.
 Understand PLC programming of PLC s.
 Understand SCADA and its programming.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Apply fundamental knowledge of basic controllers & develop programs.
 Mini project & major project upon PLC, DCS.
 Develop SCADA & PLC programming for a given application.
UNIT I:
Introduction: Introduction of intelligent instrumentation, Historical Perspective, Current status, software based instruments.
Virtual Instrumentation: Introduction to graphical programming, data flow & graphical programming techniques, advantage
of VI techniques, VIs and sub VIs loops and charts, arrays, clusters and graphs, case and sequence structure, formula nodes,
string and file I/O Code Interface Nodes and DLL links.
UNIT II:
Data Acquisition Method: Analog and Digital IO, Counters, Timers, Basic ADC design, interfacing methods of DAQ
hardware, software structure, use of simple and intermediate Vis. Use of Data Sockets for Networked communication and
controls.
UNIT III:
PC Hardware Review and Instrumentation Buses: Structure, timing, interrupts, DMA, operating system, ISA, PCI, USB,
PCMCIA Buses. IEEE488.1 & 488.2 serial Interfacing –RS 232C, RS422, RS423, RS485, USB, VXI, SCXI, PXI.
UNIT IV:
Analysis Techniques: DSP software, Measurement, filters and wavelets, windows, curve fitting probability & statistics.
Communication: Basis networking methods and their applications in instrumentation, use of Data sockets for distributed
control.
UNIT V:
Components of knowledge based systems: Basic components of knowledge based system, knowledge Representation,
comparison of knowledge Representation Schemes, Interference Engine, knowledge acquisition Machine Learning – concept
of Artificial intelligence, conceptual learning, Artificial Neural Networks – Biological Neuron, Artificial Neuron, types of Neural
Networks, applications in manufacturing.
Text Books:
1. G.C. Barney/Intelligent Instrumentation/Prentice Hall, 1995ce:
2. Lisa, K.Wells & Jeffery Travis/Lab VIEW For every one Prentice Hall, 1997
References:
1. A.S. Morris/Principles of measurement and Instrumentation/Prentice Hall, 1993
2. S.Gupta/P.C.Interfacing for data Acquisition & Process Control, 2nd Edition/Instrument Society of America, 1994
3. Gray Johnson/Lab VIEW Graphical Programming 2nd Edition/Tata Mc Graw Hill, 1997.
4. Bitter, Mohiuddin, Nawrocki/Advanced Cal VIEW Programming Techniques.
31
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Automation) L P C
3 1 4
(AUT04) INDUSTRIAL ROBOT TECHNOLOGY
Course Prerequisites: Basics of automation, assembly and manufacturing operations
Course Objectives:
 Understand about the classification, components, functions and specifications of robots
 Understand different robot programming methods.
 Understand the applications of robots in different areas.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Know the usage of robots in different industries.
 Know how the programming is done for the robot to do a task.
 Get clear idea about optical and non-optical position sensors.
UNIT I:
Robotics and Automation – Robot Definition, Classification of Robots, Robot System components, functions of Robot System,
Specification of Robot System, Robot Drives and Power transmission systems, Remote centered Compliance devices.
UNIT II:
Robotic Sensory Devices, Non optical Position sensors, Optical position sensors, velocity sensors, Accelerometers, Proximity
sensors, touch and Slip sensors, Force and Torque sensors – Robot vision system.
UNIT III:
Methods of Robot programming – Lead though programming methods – capabilities and limitations, Textual Robot languages
– robot language structure – motion commands, end effectors and sensor commands, Robot programming functions, robot
pr9ogramming environment, On-Line and Off Line programming Langauges.
UNIT IV:
Robot cell layouts – multiple Robots and machine interface, consideration in work cell design, interlocks, error detection and
recovery, Robot cycle time analysis, simulation of Robot work cells.
UNIT V:
Application of robots in material transfer, machine loading and unloading, welding, assembly and inspection, safety, training,
maintenance and quality aspects, Economics and social aspects of robotics.
Text Books & References:
1. Richard D. Klafter - Robotic engineering – An Integrated approach, Prentice Hall of India Pvt Ltd, 2002
2. Mikell P. Groover, Weiss, Roger - Industrial Robotics – Technology, Programming and Applications, McGraw Hill
International Edition, 1996.
3. Shimon Y.Nof Hand Book of Robotics, John Wiley sons, 1985.
4. Spong and Vidhyasagar, Robot Dynamics and Control, John Wiley and Sons
5. Fu. K.S., Gonzalez, R.C, Lee. C.S.G, Robotics, Control, Sensing, Vision and Intelligence, McGraw Hill International,
1987
32
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Automation) L P C
Elective – III & IV 3 0 3
(AUT21) MICROPROCESSOR AND APPLICATIONS
Course Prerequisites: Switching theory and logic design
Course Objectives:
 Understand the operation of microprocessor, assembly language programming interfacing
techniques.
 Understand the application of 8086 micro processor, interfacing it with different peripherals.
 Understand the design and implement processes of micro controlled based system in both
hardware and software.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Write various assembly language programs for 8086 based on various algorithms for software
and hardware applications.
 Designing the micro processor based systems by applying the knowledge of internal
operations.
 Applying the above knowledge in advanced processor architecture.
UNIT I:
8086 Architecture CPU Architecture, Internal Operations, Addressing modes, Machine Language Instructions. Instruction
formats, Instruction execution Timing. Assembly Instruction Format : Data transfer instructions Arithmetic Instructions : Binary
arithmetic packed BCD arithmetic, Unpacked BDC arithmetic. Branch Instructions: Conditional Branch Instructions,
Unconditional Branch Instructions, Loop instructions. NOP and HLT instructions, Flag Manipulation Instructions, Logical
Instructions. Shift and Rotate Instructions, Directives and Operators. Assembly Process, Translation and Assembly
Instruction.
UNIT II:
Linking and Relocation, Stacks, procedures, Interrupts and Interrupt Routines, Macros, Program Design Byte and string
manipulation, I/O programming.
UNIT III:
I/O Interface Serial Communication Interfaces, 8251 programmable communication interface, A/D and D/A example.
Programmable Timers and Event counters, 8254 programmable Interval Timer, interval Application to A/D. DMA Controller
(8237).
UNIT IV:
Peripheral Devices Keyboard and Display keyboard Design, LED Display Design, Keyboard/Display Controller (8279), CRT
Controller and Interface (8275), Floppy Disk Controller (8272).
UNIT V:
Advanced processor Architecture 80386, 80486 and Pentiums‘ Register structure, Instruction set, Memory management
protected and virtual modes, memory paging mechanism.
Text Books & References::
1. Liu yu-Cheng, Gibson GA, Microcomputer Systems: the 8086/8088 Family Architecture, programming and Design (2nd
Edition), PHI, 1995.
2. Barry B.Brey The Intel Microprocessors, PHI, 1995.
33
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Automation) L P C
Elective – III & IV 3 0 3
(AUT22) NEURAL NETWORK AND FUZZY SYSTEMS
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Concept of human logic, reasoning and operations.
Course Objectives:
 Understand the fundamentals of fuzzy logic, its relative principles.
 Learn the concepts of neural networks, hybrid intelligence.
 Identifying the real time applications.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Identify the potential areas of application of fuzzy logic.
 Design fuzzy logic and genetic algorithm.
 Apply the concepts of fuzzy control to real time systems.
UNIT I:
Knowledge Representation and processing – Knowledge and Intelligence – logic – Frames – production systems.
Fundamentals of Fuzzy logic – Fuzzy sets – Fuzzy Relation – composition and Inference.
UNIT II:
Membership Function estimation – Importance – Fuzzy to crisp conversion – methods – Fuzzy extension principle – Fuzzy
tautologies – Implication operation Composition operation.
UNIT III:
Basics of Fuzzy Control – Architecture of Fuzzy Control – examples of Fuzzy Control system Design – Robotic Control
system – Industrial applications.
UNIT IV:
Hybrid Intelligence – Basic concepts of neural network – Inference and learning – Classification Models – Association models,
Optimization models – Neural Network learning.
UNIT V:
Rule Based Neural Networks – Network Training – Application of Neural Network in Mathematical Modeling – knowledge
based approaches – applications in Mechanical Engineering – Fuzzy – Neural, examples, Neuro – Fuzzy examples –
Intelligence in Automation.
Text Books & References:
1. Clarence W.de Silva - Intelligent Control Fuzzy Logic Applications, CRS Press, 1995
2. Timothy J.Ross - Fuzzy Logic with engineering Applications, McGraw Hill Inc., 1995.
3. Limin Fu - Neural Networks in Computer Intelligence, Tata McGraw Hill Publishing Company Ltd.,
2003
4. Stamations - Understanding Neural Networks and Fuzzy Logic, Basic concepts Applications, IEE
and V.Kartalopoulos Neural Networks Council Prentice Hall of India Pvt., Ltd., 2001.
5. James A.Freeman and - Neural Networks Algorithms, Applications & Programming Techniques, Pearson
David M.Skapura Education Asia, 2001.
6. Yegnarayane.B - Artificial Neural Networks, Prentice Hall – 2001.
34
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Automation) L P C
Elective – III & IV 3 0 3
(AMS21) QUALITY ENGINEERING IN MANUFACTURING
Course Prerequisites: Statistics, Statistical Quality Control.
Course Objectives:
 Understand the types of factors and principles of Quality Loss Function.
 Understand the robust design methodology in solving practical engineering problems.
 Comprehend the various quality control tools.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Value the concept of quality, use quality tools and obtain the quality loss.
 Utilize the analytical techniques to find out the variation in the data and obtain optimal results.
 Select and use the proper orthogonal arrays in designing, conducting and analyzing the
experiments.
UNIT I:
Quality Value and Engineering: An overall quality system, Quality engineering in product design, Quality engineering in design of
production processes, Quality engineering in production.
Loss Function and Quality Level: Derivation and use of Quality Loss Function (QLF), Economic consequences of tightening tolerances
as a means to improve quality, Evaluations and types tolerances - N-type, S-type and L-type.
UNIT II:
Analysis of Variance (ANOVA): NO - way ANOVA, One-way ANOVA, Two-way ANOVA, Critique of F-test, ANOVA for four level factors,
multiple level factors.
UNIT III:
Orthogonal Arrays: Introduction to OA, Degrees of Freedom, Structure of OA, Linear Graphs & Interaction tables, Strategies in
Experimentation - Typical test strategies, Better test strategies & Efficient test strategies, Steps in designing, conducting and analyzing
an experiment.
Interpolation of Experimental Results: Interpretation methods, Percent contribution, Estimating the mean.
UNIT IV:
Tolerance Design and Tolerancing: Functional limits, Tolerance design for N-type, L-type and S-type characteristics, Tolerance allocation for
multiple components.
Parameter and Tolerance Design: Introduction to parameter design, Signal to noise ratios, Parameter design strategy, Some of the
case studies on parameter and tolerance designs.
UNIT V:
Quality Tools: ISO-9000 Quality System, Business Process Re-engineering (BPRE), Six-sigma, Bench
making, Quality circles, Brain Storming, Fishbone diagram.
Text Book:
1. Taguchi Techniques for Quality Engineering /Phillip J. Ross/ McGraw Hill, Intl. II Edition, 1995.
References:
1. Quality Engineering in Production systems / G. Taguchi, A- Elsayed et al / McGraw Hill Intl. Edition, 1989.
2. Taguchi Methods explained: Practical steps to Robust Resign / Tapan P. Bagchi /Prentice Hall Ind Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi.
35
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Automation) L P C
Elective – III & IV 3 0 3
(AUT23) STRESS ANALYSIS AND VIBRATIONS
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, fundamentals of vibrations and stress analysis.
Course Objectives:
 Understand elastic theory and Plane stress concept.
 Understand application of Torsion concept on noncircular, prismatic, rectangular,
axisymmetric components.
 Identify the causes and effects of Vibration of Single and Multi degree freedom systems.
 Investigate free & forced vibrations of strings bars and beams.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Apply the concept of elastic theory on component under plane stresses.
 Apply fundamentals to identify causes and effects of vibrations.
 Find out intensity of vibrations in a given system.
 Solve the free and forced vibrations of continuous system
.
UNIT I:
Two dimensional elasticity theory in Cartesian coordinates, Polar coordinates-Thick cylinders, Rotating discs -problems.
UNIT II:
Torsion of non-circular prismatic sections, rectangular and axisymmetric, Circular plates, Introduction to shell theory –
geometry of shells of revolutions-thin axisymmetric.
UNIT III:
Single degree freedom, Two degree freedom system without and with damping – Free and forced vibrations, Transient
vibrations- response to input, step input, ramp input.
UNIT IV:
Transient vibrations of single degree freedom system, Continuous systems- lateral vibrations of a spring, longitudinal vibration
of rods or bars, torsional vibrations of uniform shafts or rods.
UNIT V:
Multi degree freedom system-exact analysis- natural frequencies and mode shapes, matrix iteration methods. Principle of
orthogonality, Classical methods-Rayleigh method, Dunkerley's equation, Rayleigh-Ritz Method, Holzer method, Stodola's
method.
Text Books & References:
1. Theory of elasticity, Timoshenko and Goodier
2. Advanced strength of materials, Den Hartog J.P
3. Mechanical Vibrations, Den Hartog J.P., Dover Publications
4. Theory of Vibrations with Applications, Thomson W.T., CBS Publishing
5. Mechanical Vibrations, Thammaiah Gowda, Jagadeesha T, D V Girish
36
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Automation) L P C
Elective – III & IV 3 0 3
(AUT24) SMART MATERIALS AND STRUCTURES
Course Prerequisites: Instrumentation, material science, basic electrical and electronics
Course Objectives:
 Understand type of smart material and structures and their usage
 Understand smart material application in automation .
 Understand smart materials application in instrumentation and control system .
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Identify the types of materials and classify them based upon their properties .
 Decide on the type of materials for a given application in automation .
 Decide on materials for smart structures .
UNIT I:
Overview of Smart Materials, Structures and Products Technologies.
UNIT II:
Smart materials (Physical Properties): Piezoelectric Materials, Elctrostrictive Materials, Magnetostrictive Materials,
Magnetoelectric Materials. Magnetorheological Fluids Electroheological Fluids, Shape Memory Materials, Fiber-Optic
Sensors.
UNIT III:
Smart Sensor, Actuator and Transducer Technologies: Smart Sensors: Accelerometers; Force Sensors; Load Cells;
Torque Sensors; Pressure Sensors; Microphones; Impact Hammers; MEMS Sensors; Sensor Arrays Smart Actuators;
Displacement Actuators; Force Actuators; Power Actuators; Vibration Dampers; Shakers; Fluidic Pumps; Motors Smart
Transducers: Ultrasonic Transducers; Sonic Transducers.
UNIT IV:
Measurement, Signal Processing, Drive and control Techniques: Quasi – Static and Dynamic Measurement Methods;
Signal Conditioning devices;; Constant Voltage, Constant Current and Pulse Drive Methods; Calibration Methods; Structural
Dynamics and Identification Techniques; Passive, Semi-Active and Active Control; Feedback and Feed forward Control
Strategies.
UNIT V:
Design, Analysis, Manufacturing and Applications of Engineering Smart Structures and Products: Case studies
incorporating design, analysis, manufacturing and application issues involved in integrating smart materials and devices with
signal processing and control capabilities to engineering smart structures and products. Emphasis on structures, automation
and precision manufacturing equipment, automotives, consumer products, sporting products, computer and
telecommunications products, as well as medical and dental tools and equipment.
Text Books:
1. M.V.Gandhi and B.So Thompson, Smart Materials and Structures, Chapman & Hall, London; New York, 1992
2. B.Cui Shaw, Smart Structures and Materials, Artech House, Boston, 1996
References:
1. A.V.Srinivasan, Smart Structures: Analysis and Design, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge; New York, 2001
2. A.J.Moulson and J.M.Herbert, Electroceramics: Materials, Properties, Applications, 2nd Edition, John Wiley & Sons,
2003
3. G. Gautschi, Piezoelectric Sensories: Force, Strain, Pressure, Acceleration and Acoustic Emission Sensors. Materials
and Amplifiers, Springer, Berlin; New York,2002
4. K.Uchino, Piezoelectric Actuators and Wtrasonic Motors, Kluwer Academic Publishers, Boston, 1997
5. G.Engdahl, Handbook of Giant Magnetostrictive Materials, Academic Press, San Diego, Calif.; London, 2000
6. K.Otsuka and C.M.Waymana, Shape Memory Materials, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge; New York, 1998
7. Eric Udd, Fiber Optic Sensors: An Introduction for Engineers and Scientists, John Wiley & Sons, New York, 1991
37
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (AMS, Automation & CAD/CAM) L P C
Elective – III & IV 3 0 3
(AUT25) OPTIMIZATION TECHNIQUES AND APPLICATIONS
Course Prerequisites: Design of Machine Elements, Vibrations.
Course Objectives:
 Understand principles of optimization for various mechanical elements.
 Understand techniques for minimization of unconstraint and methods to solve it by developing
algorithms.
 Understand optimization applications in mechanical vibrations.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Develop an optimizing technique to solve an engineering problem.
 Apply concepts developing algorithms to solve a problem.
 Apply various applications of design optimization techniques on bodies.
UNIT I:
General Characteristics of mechanical elements, Adequate and optimum design, Principles of optimization, Formulation of
objective function, Design constraints, Classification of optimization problems, Single and multivariable optimization
techniques
UNIT II:
Technique of unconstrained minimization. Golden section, Random, Pattern and Gradient search methods, Interpolation
methods, Equality and inequality constraints.
UNIT III:
Direct methods and indirect methods using penalty function, Lagrange multipliers, Geometric programming and stochastic
programming, Genetic algorithms.
UNIT IV:
Engineering applications, Structural-design application axial and transverse loaded members for minimum cost, Maximum
weight. Design of shafts and torsion members, Design optimization of springs.
UNIT V:
Dynamics applications for two degree freedom system, Vibration absorbers. Application in mechanisms.
Text Books:
1. Engineering Optimization -Theory and Practice, Singerusu S. Rao, New Age.
2. Optimum Design of Mechanical elements, Johnson Ray C, Wiley, John & Sons
References:
1. Genetic Algorithms in search, Optimization and Machine, Goldberg D. E., Addison-Wesley-NewYork.
2. Optimization for Engineering Design Algorithms and Examples, Kalyanamoy Deb, Prentice Hall of India.
38
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (AMS & Automation) L P C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(AMS41) INDUSTRIAL SAFETY MANAGEMENT
Course Prerequisites: Elements of Mechanical, Civil, Electrical and Industrial Engineering
Course Objectives:
 To achieve an understanding of principles, various functions and activities of safety
management.
 To communicate effectively information on Health safety and environment facilitating
collaboration with experts across various disciplines so as to create and execute safe
methodology in complex engineering activities.
 To anticipate, recognize, and evaluate hazardous conditions and practices affecting people,
property and the environment, develop and evaluate appropriate strategies designed to
mitigate risk.
 To develop professional and ethical attitude with awareness of current legal issues by
rendering expertise to wide range of industries.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able:
 Apply risk management principles to anticipate, identify, evaluate and control physical,
chemical, biological and psychosocial hazards.
 Communicate effectively on health and safety matters among the employees and with society
at large.
 Demonstrate the use of state of the art occupational health and safety practices in controlling
risks of complex engineering activities and understand their limitations.
 Interpret and apply legislative / Legal requirements, industry standards, and best practices in
accident prevention programmes in a variety of workplaces.
UNIT I:
SAFETY MANAGEMENT: Evaluation of modern safety concepts – Safety management functions – safety organization,
safety department – safety committee, safety committee, safety audit - performance measurements and motivation –
employee participation in safety and productivity.
UNIT II:
OPERATIONAL SAFETY: Hot metal Operation – Boiler, pressure vessels – heat treatment shop - gas furnace operation-
electroplating-hot bending pipes – Safety in welding and cutting. Cold-metal Operation- Safety in Machine shop-Cold bending
and chamfering of pipes – metal cutting – shot blasting, grinding, painting – power press and other machines
UNIT III:
SAFETY MEASURES: Layout design and material handling - Use of electricity – Management of toxic gases and chemicals
– Industrial fires and prevention – Road safety – highway and urban safety – Safety of sewage disposal and cleaning –
Control of environmental pollution – Managing emergencies in industrial hazards.
UNIT IV:
ACCIDENT PREVENTION: Human side of safety – personal protective equipment – Causes and cost of accidents. Accident
prevention programmes - Specific hazard control strategies - HAZOP – Training and development of employees – First Aid –
Fire fighting devices – Accident reporting investigation.
UNIT V:
SAFETY, HEALTH, WELFARE & LAWS: Safety and health standards – Industrial hygiene – occupational diseases
prevention - Welfare facilities – History of legislations related to safety to safety – pressure vessel act- Indian boiler act- The
environmental protection act – Electricity act - Explosive act.
Text Books:
1. John V. Grimaldi and Rollin H. Simonds, ― Safety Management‖ , All India Travellers bookseller, New Delhi – 1989
2. Krishnan N.V. ―Safety Management in Industry‖ Jaico Publishing House, 1996,
39
References:
1. Occupational safety manual BHEL.
2. Industrial safety and the law by P.M.C. Nair Publisher‘s, Trivandrum
3. Managing emergencies in industries, Loss Prevention of India Ltd., Proceedings, 1999
4. Safety security and risk management by U.K. Singh & J.M. Dewan, A.P.H. Publishing company, New Delhi, 1996.
40
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (AMS & Automation) L P C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(AUT41) PLASTICS AND COMPOSITES
Course Prerequisites: Material Technology, Chemistry.
Course Objectives:
 The ability to learn the basic structure of plastic.
 Understand the properties and the manufacturing of plastics.
 Learn about the concept of machinability and joining of plastics.
 The type of reinforcement and manufacturing technique of composites.
Course outcomes:
 Understand the structure-processing-property relationship of polymers.
 Understand and apply various processing and manufacturing techniques.
 Identify the steps involved in machining and joining of plastics.
 Understand the preparation, application and type of reinforcement.
 Understand the composite manufacturing processes.
UNIT I:
Chemistry and classification of polymers – properties of thermos plastics –properties of thermosetting plastics – applications –
merits and disadvantages. Various plastic materials and their applications.
UNIT II:
Study of molding processes and mold design for:
Extrusion – blow molding – casting - thermos forming – rotomolding.
UNIT III:
Study of molding processes and mold design for:
Compression and transfer molding – injection molding.
UNIT IV:
General machining properties of plastics – machining parameters and their effect – joining of plastics – mechanical fasteners
– thermal bonding – press fitting.
UNIT V:
Fibers – glass, boron, carbon, organic, ceramic and metallic fibers – matrix materials – polymers, metals and ceramics.
Open mold processes, bag molding, compression molding with BMC and SMC – filament winding – pultrusion – centrifugal
casting – injection molding – application of PMC‘s.
Text Books & References:
1. Harold belofsky, plastics, ―product design and process engineering‖, hanser publishers, 1995.
2. Bera, E and Moet, A, ―high performance polymers‖, hanser publishers, 1991.
3. Hensen, F, ―plastics extrusion technology‖, hanser publishers, 1988.
4. Rauwendaal, C, ―polymer extrusion‖, hanser publishers, 1990.
5. John dalmonte, ―plastics moulding‖, john wiley.
6. Akira kobyashi, ―machining of plastics‖, Mc-Graw hill.
7. Krishna K.chawla, ―composite materials science and engineering‖, springer-verlag, 1987.
8. Agarwal. D. and Broutman L.J., ―analysis and performance of fiber composites‖, wiley, 1990.
9. Mallick, P.K. and Newman, S, ―composite materials technology‖, hanser publishers, 1990.
41
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Automation) L P C
Open Elective – II 3 0 3
(AUT42) ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND EXPERT SYSTEMS
Course Prerequisites: Mathematical foundations of Computer Science, Basic Mechanical Engineering
Course Objectives:
 Understand artificial intelligence ,search problem solving ,heunistic methods
 Concepts and aspects of expert and intelligent tutoring systems.
 Theory of state space learning ,game playing ,knowledge representative uncertainty.
Course Outcomes:
Students should be able to:
 Describe search strategies and solve problems by applying a suitable search method.
 Describe the key aspects of expert systems
 Describe and apply knowledge representation
UNIT I:
Artificial Intelligence: Introduction, definition, underlying assumption, important of AI,AI & related fields State space
representations, defining a problem, production systems and its characteristic, search and control strategies – Introduction,
preliminary concepts, examples of Search problems.
UNIT II:
Uniformed or Preliminary Concepts: Examples of search problems, Uniformed or Blind Search, Informed Search, Or
Graphs, Heuristic Search techniques – Generate and Test, Hill climbing, best first search, problem reduction, constraint
satisfaction, Means – Ends Analysis.
Knowledge Representation Issues: Representations and Mapping, Approaches, Issues in Kr, Types of Knowledge
procedural Vs Declarative, Logic programming, Forward Vs Backward reasoning, Matching, Non monotonic reasoning and it
logic.
UNIT III:
Use of Predicate Logic: Representing Simple facts, Instance and is a relationships, Syntax and Semantics for Propositional
logic, FOPL, and properties of Wffs, conversion to casual form, Resolution Natural deduction
Statistical and Probabilistic Reasoning: Symbolic reasoning under uncertainly, Probability and Bayes‘ theorem, Certainty
factors and Rule based systems, Bayesian Networks, Dempster – Shafer Theory, Fuzzy Logic.
UNIT IV:
Expert Systems: Introduction, Structure and uses, Representing and using domain knowledge, Expert System shells.
Pattern recognition, introduction, Recognition and classification process, learning classification patterns, recognizing and
understanding speech.
UNIT V:
Introduction to Knowledge Acquisition: Types of learning, General Learning model, and performance measures.
Typical Expert Systems: MYCIN, Variants of MYCIN, PROSPECTOR, DENDRAL, PUFF etc.
Introduction to Machine Learning: Perceptions, Checker Playing examples, Learning, Automata, Genetic Algorithms,
Intelligent Editors.
Text Books & References:
1. Artificial intelligence – Elaine Rich & Kevin Knight, M/H 1983.
2. Artificial intelligence in business, Science & Industry – Wendry B.Ranch, Vol II application, Ph 1985.
3. A guide to expert systems – waterman, D.A., Addison – Wesley inc.1986.
4. Building expert systems – Hayes, Roth, Waterman, D.A(ed), AW 1983.
5. Designing expert systems – weis, S.M. and Kulliknowske, London champion Hull 1984.
42
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Automation) L P C
0 3 2
(AUT52) AUTOMATION & ROBOTICS LABORATORY
Course Prerequisites: Manufacturing processes, fluid and electric controllers, robot programming, mathematics.
Course Objectives:
 To conduct the experiments for understanding the working of hydraulic, pneumatic, electric
and electronic controls used in automation.
 To understand the concepts of PLC‘s, microcontrollers and automated transfer devices in
automation by conducting experiments.
 To demonstrate the robotics manipulator motions using the robotic programming and
languages.
.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
 Design hydraulic and pneumatic controls.
 Program PLC, microcontrollers, transfer devices.
 Use robotic programming for robotic manipulation.
Experiments to demonstrate:
1. Pneumatic, hydraulic, electrical systems in automation
2. Microprocessor applications in automated systems.
3. Robotics Systems and Programming
4. Automated transfer devices.
5. Training on Programmable Logic Controllers
43
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem M.Tech. (Automation) L T/P/D C
0 0 4
(AUT62) MINI PROJECT - II
A mini project work shall be carried out on any topic of Automation and a seminar should be given on the same along with a
brief report.
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
II Year – II Sem M.Tech. (Automation) L T/P/D C
0 0 4
(AUT63) COMPREHENSIVE VIVA-VOCE
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
II Year – II Sem M.Tech. (Automation) L T/P/D C
0 0 8
(AUT71) DISSERTATION PHASE – I
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
II Year – II Sem M.Tech. (Automation) L T/P/D C
0 0 18
(AUT72) DISSERTATION PHASE – II
44
