SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/mtechsyl/r15mpowelec.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE
AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
M. T e ch.
POWER ELE CTRONICS
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2015-2016)
VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous Institute, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
NBA Accreditation for CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT B.Tech. Programmes
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi, Affiliated to JNTUH
Recognized as “College with Potential for Excellence” by UGC
Vignana Jyothi Nagar, Pragathi Nagar, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500 090, TS, India.
Telephone No: 040-2304 2758/59/60, Fax: 040-23042761
E-mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
1
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
Academic Regulations - M.Tech. Programme
(Applicable for the batches admitted from the academic year 2015-2016)
1. Introduction
Academic programmes of the institute are governed by rules and regulations as approved by the Academic
Council of the institute.
These academic rules and regulations are effective from the academic year 2015-16, for the students
admitted into two year post graduate programme offered by the college leading to Master of Technology (M.
Tech.) degree in different specializations offered by the departments of Civil Engineering, Electrical and
Electronics Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Computer
Science and Engineering, Information Technology and Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering.
The M.Tech. degree of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad shall be conferred on
students who are admitted to the programme after fulfilling all the requirements for the award of the degree.
1.1 Eligibility for Admissions
Admission to the above program shall be made subject to the eligibility and qualifications prescribed from
time to time. Admissions shall be made on the basis of GATE Rank and merit rank obtained at an Entrance
Test conducted by the TSSCHE or as decided by TSSCHE subject to reservations prescribed by the
university/ State Government from time to time.
2. Programmes of study
The following two year M.Tech. degree programmes of study are offered by the departments at VNR VJIET.
Department Specializations
1. Advanced Manufacturing Systems
ME 2. Automation
3. CAD/CAM
1. Highway Engineering
CE 2. Structural Engineering
3 Geotechnical Engineering
1. Power Electronics
EEE
2. Power Systems
1. Software Engineering
CSE
2. Computer Science and Engineering
1. VLSI System Design
ECE
2. Embedded Systems
EIE Electronics and Instrumentation
IT Computer Networks and Information Security
• ‘ENGLISH’ language is used as the medium of instruction in all the above programmes.
3. Attendance requirements
Each academic year shall be divided into two semesters, each of 90 Instructions days, excluding
examination, evaluation, declaration of results etc.
2
3.1 A student shall be eligible to appear for the semester end examinations in subject if he / she acquire a
minimum of 75% of attendance in that subject.
3.2 Shortage of attendance up to 10% in any subject (i.e., attendance of 65% and above and below 75%)
in a semester may be condoned by the Institute Academic Committee based on the rules prescribed
by the Academic Council of the Institute from time to time.
3.3 A student shall get minimum required attendance in at least three (03) theory subjects in the present
semester to get promoted to the next semester. In order to qualify for the award of the M.Tech. degree, the
student shall complete all the academic requirements of the subjects, as per the course structure.
3.4 Shortage of attendance below 65% shall in NO case be condoned.
3.5 A stipulated fee shall be payable towards condonation of shortage of attendance.
3.6 In case the student secures less than the required attendance in any subject(s), he shall not be permitted to
appear for the semester end examination in that subject(s). He shall re-register for the subject when offered
next.
4. Evaluation
i. The performance of a student in each semester shall be evaluated subject–wise with a maximum of 100
marks for theory and 100 marks for practical subjects. In addition, mini-project and comprehensive
viva-voce shall be evaluated for 100 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects, the distribution shall be 40 marks for mid-term evaluation and 60 marks
for the semester end examination.
❖ Mid-Term Evaluation (40 M):
Mid-term evaluation consists of mid-term examination (30 M) and assignment/objective test/ case
study/course project (10 M).
➢ Mid-term examination (30 M):
• For theory subjects, two mid-term examinations shall be conducted in each semester as per the
academic calendar. Each mid-term examination shall be evaluated for 30 marks.
• Pattern of Mid-term examination:
3 X 10M = 30 M (three internal choice questions one from each unit shall be given, the student has to
answer ONE question from each unit)
• There shall be TWO mid-term examinations for each subject and the average of two mid-term
examinations shall be considered for calculating final mid-term examination marks in that subject.
➢ Assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project (10 M):
• Two assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project shall be given to the students covering the
syllabus of first mid-term and second mid-term examinations respectively and evaluated for 10 marks
each.
• The first assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project shall be submitted before first mid-term
examination and the second one shall be submitted before second mid-term examination.
• The average of 2 assignments shall be taken as final assignment marks.
iii. For practical subjects, there shall be a continuous evaluation during the semester for 40 marks and 60
marks for semester end examination. Out of the 40 marks, day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be
evaluated for 10 marks, and 15 marks for practical examination and 15 marks for laboratory record.
❖ Semester End Examination (60 M):
(a) Theory Courses
Question paper pattern for semester end examination (60 Marks)
• Paper shall consist of 05 questions of 10 marks each. (05X12M = 60 M)
• There shall be 01 question from each unit with internal choice.
3
(b) Practical Courses
Each laboratory course shall be evaluated for 60 marks. The semester end examination shall be conducted
by two examiners, one Internal and other external concerned with the subject of the same / other department
/ Industry. The evaluation shall be as per the standard format.
4.1. Evaluation of Mini-Project: There shall be two presentations during the first year, one in each semester.
For mini-project 1 and mini-project 2, a student under the supervision of a faculty member, shall collect the
literature on a topic, critically review the literature, carry out the mini-project, submit it to the department in a
report form and shall make an oral presentation before the departmental Project Review Committee (PRC).
The Departmental PRC consists of Head of the Department, supervisor and one senior faculty member of
the department. For each mini-project there shall be only internal evaluation of 100 marks. A student has to
secure a minimum of 50% to be declared successful.
4.2. There shall be a comprehensive viva-voce in II year I semester. The comprehensive viva- Voce shall be
conducted by a committee consisting of Head of the Department and two senior faculty members of the
department. The comprehensive viva-voce is aimed to assess the students’ understanding in various
subjects studied during the M.Tech. programme of study. The comprehensive viva-voce shall be evaluated
for 100 marks by the committee. There are no internal marks for the comprehensive viva-voce. A student
must secure a minimum of 50% to be declared successful.
4.3. A student shall be deemed to have secured the minimum academic requirement in a subject if he secures a
minimum of 40% of marks in the semester end examination and a minimum aggregate of 50% of the total
marks in the semester end examination and mid-term evaluation taken together.
4.4. A student shall be given one chance to re-register, after completion of the course work, for each subject,
provided the internal marks secured by a student are less than 50% and he has failed in the semester end
examination. In such a case student may re-register for the subject(s) and secure required minimum
attendance. Attendance in the re-registered subject(s) has to be calculated separately to become eligible to
write the end examination in the re-registered subject(s). Re-registration for the subjects is allowed only if
that particular re-registration subjects are the hindrance for the award of Degree. Re-registration is allowed
in this case provided the student doesn’t have any subject(s) yet to pass other than the re-registration
subjects where the internal marks are less than 50% with prior permission.
4.5. Laboratory examination for M.Tech. courses must be conducted with two examiners, one of them being
laboratory class teacher and second examiner shall be a teacher of same specialization either external or a
teacher from the same department other than the teacher who conducted laboratory classes for that batch.
5. Evaluation of Project / Dissertation Work.
5.1 Registration of Project Work: A student shall be permitted to register for the project work after satisfying
the attendance requirement of all the subjects (theory and practical subjects).
5.2 A Project Review Committee (PRC) shall be constituted with at least four members namely HOD, PG
coordinator of the M.Tech. programme, project supervisor and one senior faculty member of same
specialization.
5.3 After getting permission as per 5.1, a student has to submit, in consultation with the project supervisor, the
title, objective and plan of action of his project work to the Departmental PRC for its approval. Only after
obtaining the approval of PRC, the student can initiate the project work.
5.4 If a student wishes to change his supervisor or topic of the project he can do so with the approval of PRC.
However, the committee shall examine whether the change of topic/supervisor leads to a major change of
his initial plans of project proposal. If so, the date of registration for the project work shall be the date of
change of supervisor or topic as the case may be.
4
5.5 Internal evaluation of the project shall be on the basis of the seminars (Project reviews) conducted during
the second year by the PRC. A student shall submit draft report in a spiral bound copy form.
5.6 The work on the project shall be initiated in the beginning of the second year and the duration of project is
for two semesters. A student is permitted to submit Project work only after successful completion of theory
and practical course with the approval of PRC not earlier than 240 days from the date of registration of the
project work. For the approval of PRC the student shall submit the draft copy of thesis to the Head of the
Department (Through project supervisor and PG coordinator) and shall make an oral presentation before
the PRC.
The student is eligible to submit project work if he has published at least one paper covering 70% of the
project work and presented his project work in Show and Tell activity.
5.7 After approval of PRC, every student has to submit three copies of the project dissertation certified by the
supervisor to the Department.
5.8 The dissertation shall be adjudicated by one examiner selected by the Chief Superintendent. For this, HOD
shall submit a panel of 3/ 5 examiners, who are eminent in that field with the help of the concerned guide.
5.9 If the report of the examiner is not favourable, the student shall revise and resubmit the Dissertation, within
the time frame as prescribed by PRC. If the report of the examiner is unfavourable again, the dissertation
shall be summarily rejected.
5.10 If the report of the examiner is favorable, viva-voce examination shall be conducted by a board consisting of
the project supervisor, Head of the Department and the external examiner who adjudicated the Thesis. The
Board shall jointly report students work as:
A. Excellent
B. Good
C. Satisfactory
D. Unsatisfactory
Head of the Department shall coordinate and make arrangements for the conduct of viva-voce examination.
The student has to secure any one of the grades as Excellent, Good or Satisfactory on his dissertation and
viva-voce. If the report of the viva-voce is unsatisfactory, the student shall retake the viva-voce examination
after three months, making modifications as suggested. If he fails to get a satisfactory report at the second
viva-voce examination, he has to re-register for the project work as mentioned in clause 5.1. However, the
student may select a new guide or new topic or both with the approval of the PRC and submit the project
dissertation with a minimum of 240 days from the date of re-registration. Of course, this shall not prejudice
the clause 6.1 below.
6. Award of Degree and Class
A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the M.Tech. degree, if he pursues a course of study and
complete it successfully for not less than two academic years and not more than four academic years.
6.1 A student, who fails to fulfil all the academic requirements for the award of the degree within four academic
years from the year of his admission, for any reason whatsoever, shall forfeit his seat in M.Tech. Course.
6.2 A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 84 credits and earn 84 credits.
Marks obtained in all 86 credits shall be considered for the calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average
(CGPA).
6.3 CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points in two year M.Tech. degree programme is as follows:
Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the total marks obtained in mid-term evaluation and
semester end examinations.
5
• Grades and Grade points are assigned as given below.
Grade Points(GP)
Marks Obtained Grade Description of Grade
Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 B Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 C Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 D Pass 6.00
<50 F Fail
Not Appeared the Exam(s) N Absent
The student is eligible for the award of the M.Tech degree with the class as mentioned in the following table.
CGPA Class
>= 8.0 First Class with Distinction
>= 7.0 and <8.0 First Class
>= 6.0 and < 7.0 Second Class
➢ Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
• The performance of each student at the end of the each semester shall be indicated in terms of SGPA. The
SGPA shall be calculated as below:
Where Ci = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘i’
Gi = Grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to the subject ‘i’
i = 1,2,…..p represent the number of subjects in a particular semester
Note: SGPA is calculated and awarded for the students who pass all the courses in a semester.
➢ Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA):
The CGPA of a student for the entire programme shall be calculated as given below:
• Assessment of the overall performance of a student shall be obtained by calculating Cumulative Grade Point
Average (CGPA), which is weighted average of the grade points obtained in all subjects during the course of
study.
Where Cj = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘j’
Gj = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to that subject ‘j’
j = 1,2,….m represent the number of subjects of the entire program.
• Grade lower than D in any subject shall not be considered for CGPA calculation. The CGPA shall be
awarded only when the student acquires the required number of credits prescribed for the program.
6
➢ Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
7. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to the Institute, or if any case of indiscipline is pending against him, the
result of the student may be withheld and he shall not be allowed into the next higher semester. The award
or issue of the provisional certificate and the degree may also be withheld in such cases. This delay shall not
prejudice clauses Nos.6.0 and 6.1.
8. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or any other academic
requirements, may be considered for readmission as and when they become eligible. They have to take up
Equivalent subjects, as substitute subjects in place of repeated subjects as decided by the Chairman of the
BoS of the respective departments. He/She shall be admitted under the regulation of the batch in which
he/she is readmitted.
9. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each semester shall be 90 instruction days.
10. General
10.1 The academic regulations should be read as a whole for purpose of any interpretation.
10.2 In case of any doubt or ambiguity in the interpretation of the above rules, the decision of the Principal is
final.
10.3 The Institute may change or amend the academic regulations and syllabi at any time and the changes and
amendments made shall be applicable to all the students with effect from the date notified by the Institute.
10.4 Wherever the words he, him or his occur, they shall also include she, her and hers.
11. Supplementary Examination
Supplementary examinations shall be conducted along with regular semester end examinations. (During
even semester regular examinations, supplementary examinations of odd Semester and during odd
semester regular examinations, supplementary examinations of even semester shall be conducted).
7
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
M. TECH - POWER ELECTRONICS (PE)
Vision of the Institute
To be a World Class University providing value based education, conducting interdisciplinary
research in cutting edge technologies leading to sustainable socio economic development of the
nation.
Mission of the Institute
➢ To produce technically competent and socially responsible engineers, managers
and entrepreneurs who will be future ready.
➢ To involve students and faculty in innovative research projects linked with
industry, academic and research institutions in India and abroad.
➢ To use modern pedagogy for improving the teaching learning process.
Vision of the Department
To excel in Education, Technology and Research in Electrical and Electronics Engineering
leading to sustainable socioeconomic development of the nation.
Mission of the Department
➢ Excellent teaching learning environment imbibed with professional ethics and
social responsibility in promoting quality education.
➢
Promoting research through industry collaborations and innovative projects.
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
Program Educational Objectives for M.Tech Power Electronics (PE) Program:
The Post Graduates of Power Electronics program will
I. Be proficient in applying sustainable and inclusive technologies to analyse, formulate and
provide solutions for real time problems in diversified fields.
II. Solve complex technological problems using emerging technologies and tools
III. Work effectively as an individual and team member with good communication skills in
project execution
IV. Demonstrate interdisciplinary skills and professional ethics in relating engineering issues
to broader societal context
V. Engage in life long learning for a successful professional career.
8
Program Outcomes for M.Tech Power Electronics (PE) Program:
The graduates will be able to
a. Apply the knowledge of power electronics for the control of electrical systems.
b. Design and conduct experiments, as well as analyze the power electronic converters &
drives and interpret the data.
c. Design system or component to meet the desired needs with in realistic constraints.
d. Function on multidisciplinary technological issues assimilating power electronics
advancements.
e. Identify, formulate and model the power electronic systems as a solution to the problems
in allied disciplines.
f. Acquire and demonstrate the professional, social, moral and ethical responsibility
g. Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering
community and with society at large.
h. Work with the independent and reflective thinking for problem solving in power
electronics and allied fields
i. Recognizes the need for and engage in lifelong learning to update with or develop
technologies to meet the growing and changing needs of society
j. Use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering simulation tools necessary for the
design and development of power converter topologies.
k. Propose, plan and execute projects subjected to financial, personnel and time constraints
in allied fields assimilating power electronics advancements.
9
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
M.TECH. (POWER ELECTRONICS)
(R15 Regulation)
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject code Group Subject Name L P Credits
PES01 Machine Modeling & Analysis 3 1 4
PES02 Core Analysis of Power Electronic Converters –I 3 1 4
PES03 Power Electronic Control of DC Drives 3 1 4
PES11 HVDC Transmission 3 0
PES12 Dynamics of Electrical Machines
3 0
Elective – I
PES13 Special Machines 3 0
& 3 + 3
PSS13 AI Techniques in Electrical Engineering 3 0
Elective – II
3
PES14 Basket Electric and Hybrid Vehicles 0
PES15 VLSI Design 3 0
PES31 Microcontrollers and Applications 3 0
Energy Auditing, Conservation and
PSS31 Open Elective I 3 0 3
Management
PES32 Advanced Digital Signal Processing 3 0
PES51 Lab -1 Power Converters Simulation Lab 0 3 2
PES61 Mini Project -1 0 0 4
Total 18 6 27
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject code Group Subject Name L P Credits
PES04 Analysis of Power Electronic Converters –II 3 1 4
PES05 Power Electronic Control of AC Drives 3 1 4
Core
PES06 Modern Control Theory 3 1 4
PSS21 Power Quality 3 0
3
PES21 Digital Control Systems
Elective – III 0
PES22 & Embedded Systems 3 0
PES23 Elective – IV Reliability Engineering 3 0
PES25 Basket FACTS Controllers 3 0 3 + 3
Analysis and Design of Switched Mode
PES24 3 0
Converters
PES41 Renewable Power Generation Technologies 3 0
Open Programmable Logic Controllers
PES42 3 0 3
Elective II and their Applications
PSS41 Optimization Techniques 3 0
PES52 Lab -2 Power Converters and Drives Lab 0 3 2
PES62 Mini Project -2 0 0 4
Total 18 6 27
10
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
M.TECH. (POWER ELECTRONICS)
(R15 Regulation)
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject code Group Subject Name L P Credits
PES63 Comprehensive Viva-Voce 0 0 4
PES71 Internship/Dissertation Phase – I 0 0 8
Total 0 0 12
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject code Group Subject Name L P Credits
PES72 Dissertation Phase – II 0 0 18
Total 0 0 18
11
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – I sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(PES01) MACHINE MODELLING AND ANALYSIS
Prerequisites: Electrical Machines (DC and AC), Control Theory
Course Objectives:
• To comprehend the basic two-pole machine.
• Identifying the methods and assumptions in modeling of machines.
• To write voltage and torque equations for different machines.
• Recognize the different frames for modeling of different AC machines.
• To express the voltage and torque equations in State space form
Course Outcomes:
• Write the voltage equation and torque equations for different machines like dc machine,
induction motor and Synchronous machines.
• Model different machines using phase and Active transformations.
• Identify the different reference frames for modeling of machines.
UNIT I:
Basic Two-pole DC machine - primitive 2-axis machine - Voltage and Current relationship -
Torque equation
UNIT II:
Mathematical model of separately excited DC motor and DC Series motor in state variable form -
Transfer function of the motor - Numerical problems.
Mathematical model of D.C. shunt motor and D.C. Compound motor in state variable form -
Transfer function of the motor - Numerical Problems.
UNIT III:
Linear transformation-Phase transformation (a,b,c to a,p,o)-Active transformation(a,p,o to
d,q).Circuit model of a 3 phase Induction motor - Linear transformation - Phase Transformation -
Transformation to a Reference frame - Two axis models for Induction motor.
UNIT IV:
Voltage and current Equations in stator reference frame - Equation in Rotor reference frame -
Equations in a synchronously rotating frame - Torque equation-Equations in state-space form.
UNIT V:
Circuit model of a 3ph Synchronous motor - Two axis representation of Syn. Motor. Voltage and
current Equations in state - space variable form - Torque equation.
Text Books:
1. Analysis of electric machinery and Drive systems- Paul C.Krause , Oleg wasynezuk, Scott
D.Sudhoff, third edition, IEEE press
12
References:
1. Thyristor control of Electric Drives - Vedam Subramanyam, Tata McGraw-Hill Education, 1988
2. Generalized Machine theory P.S. Bimbhra, Khanna Publishers, 2002
13
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – I sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(PES02) ANALYSIS OF POWER ELECTRONIC CONVERTERS -I
Prerequisites: Power Electronics, Electronic devices and circuits
Course Objectives:
• To comprehend the concepts of converters
• Students will be able to relate to the applications of phase controlled rectifiers
• Students will be able to describe the importance of AC voltage controllers and cyclo
converters for various industrial applications
• Students will be able to analyze and design switch mode power electronic converters for
various applications including microprocessor power supplies, renewable energy systems,
and motor drives.
• Students will be able to analyze pulse width modulated inverters which are used in variable
speed drives
Course Outcomes:
• Understand the basic principles of switch mode power converters.
• Understand the operating principles and models of different types of power electronic
converters AC-AC, AC-DC, DC-AC and DC-DC converter systems.
• Select appropriate power converter topologies and design the power stage with controllers
for various applications.
• Apply advanced modulation techniques for analyzing and designing power converters.
UNIT I:
Power Switching Devices: Static and dynamic characteristics of switching devices:-SCR, BJT,
MOSFET, IGBT, and GTO - Gate driver circuits:-MOSFET, BJT- pulse transformers-opto couplers
Single Phase Converters: Single phase converters - Half controlled and Fully controlled
converters -Evaluation of input power factor and harmonic factor - continuous and
Discontinuous load current - single phase dual converters - power factor Improvements -
Extinction angle control - symmetrical angle control - PWM -single phase sinusoidal PWM -
single phase series converters - Applications -Numerical problems.
Three Phase Converters: Three phase converters - Half controlled and fully controlled
converters -Evaluation of input power factor and harmonic factor - continuous and Discontinuous
load current - three phase dual converters - power factor Improvements - three phase PWM -
twelve pulse converters - applications -Numerical problems.
UNIT II:
Single Phase AC Voltage Controllers: Single phase AC voltage controllers with Resistive,
Resistive-inductive and Resistive-inductive-induced e.m.f.loads - ac voltage controllers with PW
Control - Effects of source and load inductances - Synchronous tap changers-Applications -
numerical problems.
UNIT III:
Three Phase AC Voltage Controllers: Three phase AC voltage controllers - Analysis of
controllers with star and delta Connected Resistive, Resistive-inductive loads - Effects of source
and load Inductances - applications - numerical problems.
14
Cycloconverters: Single phase to single phase cycloconverters - analysis of midpoint and bridge
Configurations - Three phase to three phase cycloconverters - analysis of Midpoint and bridge
configurations - Limitations - Advantages - Applications- numerical problems.
UNIT IV:
D.C. to D.C. Converters: Analysis of step-down and step-up dc to dc converters with resistive
and Resistive-inductive loads - Switched mode regulators - Analysis of Buck Regulators - Boost
regulators - buck and boost regulators - Cuk regulators - Condition for continuous inductor
current and capacitor voltage - comparison of regulators -Multiouput boost converters -
advantages - applications - Numerical problems.
UNIT V:
Pulse Width Modulated Inverters (Single Phase): Principle of operation - performance
parameters - single phase bridge inverter -evaluation of output voltage and current with resistive,
inductive and Capacitive loads - Voltage control of single phase inverters - single PWM -
Multiple PWM - sinusoidal PWM - modified PWM - phase displacement Control - Advanced
modulation techniques for improved performance - Trapezoidal, staircase, stepped, harmonic
injection and delta modulation - Advantage - application - numerical problems.
Pulse Width Modulated Inverters (Three Phase): Voltage Source Inverter-Three phase
inverters - analysis of 180 degree condition for output voltage And current with resistive,
inductive loads - analysis of 120 degree Conduction - voltage control of three phase inverters -
sinusoidal PWM - Third Harmonic PWM – 60 degree PWM - space vector modulation -
Comparison of PWM techniques- harmonic reductions - Current Source Inverter - advantages -
applications - numerical problems.
Text Books:
1. Power Electronics - Mohammed H. Rashid - Pearson Education -Third Edition - First
Indian reprint 2004
2. Power Electronics - Ned Mohan, Tore M. Undeland and William P. Robbins – John Wiley
and Sons - Second Edition
References:
1. Power Electronics Daniel W. Hart, Tata Mc Graw Hill Education Pvt Ltd, 2011, New Delhi
2. Fundamentals of Power Electronis, 2nd Edition. R.W. Erickson
3. The power electronics Hand Book Timothy, L. Skvarenina, Purdue University
15
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – I sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(PES03) POWER ELECTRONIC CONTROL OF DC DRIVES
Prerequisites: Power Electronics and Electrical DC machines and control systems
Course Objectives:
• Introduction of drive system and characteristics of drive ,operation modes of drive
• Detailed description of the operation, function and interaction between various
components and sub-systems used in power electronic converters, electric machines
and adjustable-speed drives
• Comprehend the principle operation of phase control and Chopper controlled
of dc drives
• Design of current and speed controllers
• Dynamic simulations of the speed controlled DC motor drives.
Course Outcomes:
• Comprehend various controllers for DC drives
• Understand the principle of operation of power electronic control of electric drive system.
• Assess the performance of speed –torque characteristics of phase controlled and chopper
controlled motor drives
• Identify and select the speed and current control strategies of drives
UNIT I:
1-  Controlled Bridge Rectifier Fed DC Motor: Introduction- characteristics and operating
modes of drives -Separately excited DC motors with rectified single-phase supply – single-phase
semi converter and single phase full converter for continuous and discontinuous modes of
operation – power and power factor
UNIT II:
3-  Controlled Bridge Rectifier Fed DC Motor: Three-phase semi converter and Three phase
full converter for continuous and discontinuous modes of operation – power and power factor –
Addition of Free wheeling diode – Three phase double converter
Three Phase Naturally Commutated Bridge Circuit as a Rectifier or as an Inverter: Three
phase controlled bridge rectifier with passive load impedance, resistive load and ideal supply –
Highly inductive load and ideal supply for load side and supply side quantities, shunt capacitor
compensation, three phase controlled bridge rectifier inverter.
UNIT III:
Phase Controlled DC Motor Drives: Three phase controlled converter, control circuit, control
modeling of three phase converter – Steady state analysis of three phase converter control DC
motor drive – Two quadrant, Three phase converter controlled DC motor drive – DC motor and
load, converter
Current and Speed Controlled DC Motor Drives: Current and speed controllers – current and
speed feedback – Design of controllers – Current and speed controllers – Motor equations – filter
in the sped feed back loop speed controller – current reference generator – current controller and
flow chart for simulation – Harmonics and associated problems – sixth harmonics torque.
16
UNIT IV:
Chopper Controlled DC Motor Drives: Principle of operation of the chopper – Four- quadrant
chopper circuit – Chopper for inversion – Chopper with other power devices – model of the
chopper – input to the chopper – steady state analysis of chopper controlled DC motor drives –
rating of the devices – Pulsating torque.
Closed Loop Operation of DC Motor Drives: Speed controlled drive system – current control
loop – pulse width modulated current controller – hysterisis current controller – modeling of
current controller – design of current controller
UNIT V:
Simulation of DC Motor Drives: Dynamic simulations of the speed controlled DC motor drives
– Speed feedback controller – command current generator – current controller.
Text Books:
1. Power Electronics and motor control – Shepherd, Hulley, Liang – II Edition, Cambridge
University Press
2. Electric motor drives modeling, Analysis and control – R.Krishnan – I Edition, Prentice
Hall India
References:
1. Power Electronic circuits, Devices and Applications – M.H.Rashid – PHI – I Edition –
1995
2. Fundamentals of Electric Drives – G.K. Dubey- Narosa Publications -1995
3. Power Semiconductor drives – S.B.Dewan and A.Straughen – 1975, John Wiley and
Sons, 1984
17
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – I Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
Elective I and II
(PES11) H.V.D.C. TRANSMISSION
Prerequisites: Power Electronics, power systems
Course Objectives:
• To Comprehend the conversion principles of HVDC Transmission
• Analysis of 3,6 , 12 pulse converters, rectifier and inverter operations of HVDC converters
• To identify the different types of Harmonics and reduction by using Filters
• To Comprehend Interaction between HVAC and DC systems in various aspects
• To appreciate the reliable MTDC systems and protection of HVDC system
Course Outcomes:
• Find the applications of HVDC transmission in the power system with the acquired
knowledge.
• Analyze different converter topologies viz. 3,6 and 12 Pulse converters and understand
it’s control aspects.
• Understand the filter configuration for Harmonics in HVDC systems.
• Appreciate the reliable Multi terminal HVDC system.
• Have knowledge on the Protection of HVDC systems against transient over voltages and
over currents.
UNIT I:
Introduction: General consideration, Power Handling Capabilities of HVDC Lines Basic
Conversion principles, static converter configuration.
UNIT II:
Static Power Converters: 3-pulse, 6-pulse, and 12-pulse converters, converter station and
Terminal equipment, commutation process, Rectifier and inverter operation, equivalent circuit
for converter – Analysis of VSC based HVDC system, special features of converter transformers.
Harmonics in HVDC Systems, Harmonic elimination, AC and DC filters.
UNIT III:
Control of HVDC Converters and Systems: Constant current, constant extinction angle and
constant ignition angle control Individual phase control and equidistant firing angle control DC
power flow control. Control of VSC based HVDC system- Direct Control and Vector Control.
Interaction between HV AC and DC systems – Voltage interaction Harmonic instability
problems and DC power modulation.
UNIT IV:
MTDC Systems & Over Voltages: Series parallel and series parallel systems their operation
and control. Over voltages due to disturbances on DC side, over voltages due to DC and AC side
line faults.
UNIT V:
Converter Faults & Protection: Converter faults, over current protection – valve group, and
DC line protection over voltage protection of converters, surge arresters.
18
Text Books:
1. E.W. Kimbark: Direct current Transmission Volume-1, Wiely Inter Science, 1971 – New
York
2. KR Padiyar : High Voltage Direct current Transmission Wiely Esatern Ltd New Delhi –
1992.
References:
1. J. Arillaga HVDC Transmission Peter Peregrinus ltd. London UK 1983
2. E. Uhlman : Power Transmission by Direct Current , Springer Verlag, Berlin Helberg. 1985.
3. S. Rao “EHVAC and HVDC Transmission Engg. Practice, heory, Practice and Solved
Problems 1990, Khanna publishers.
19
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – I Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
Elective –I and II
(PES12) DYNAMICS OF ELECTRICAL MACHINES
Prerequisites: Electrical machines, Control System, Network Analysis
Course Objectives:
• Formulate mathematical models of DC, synchronous and induction machine.
• Examine transient characteristic of electrical machines based on their mathematical
models.
• Illustrate simulation of DC, synchronous and induction machines.
• Modify machine parameters by combining analytic and simulated results
Course Outcomes:
• Model the electrical machines and analyze transient responses in electrical machines.
• Analyze an electrical machine using a linear or a nonlinear dynamic models.
• Compute the dynamic parameters of electrical machines and to develop solutions to
specific technical problems in the field of controlled electrical drives
.
UNIT I:
Basic Machine Theory: Electromechanical Analogy – Magnetic Saturation – Rotating field
theory – Operation of Inductor motor – equivalent circuit – Steady state equations of d.c.
machines – operation of synchronous motor – Power angle characteristics.
UNIT II:
Electro Dynamical Equations and their Solutions: Spring and Plunger system – Rotational
motion – mutually coupled coils – Lagrange’s equation – Application of Lagrange’s equation –
solution of Electro dynamical equations.
UNIT III:
Dynamics of D.C. Machines: Separately excited d.c. generators – stead state analysis – transient
analysis – Separately excited d.c. motors – steady state analysis – transient analysis –
interconnection of machines – Ward Leonard system of speed control.
UNIT IV:
Induction Machine Dynamics: Induction machine dynamics during starting and braking –
accelerating time – Induction machine dynamics during normal operation – Equation for
dynamical response of the Induction motor.
UNIT V:
Synchronous Machine Dynamics : Electromechanical equation – motor operation – generator
operation – small oscillations – general equations for small oscillations – representation of the
oscillation equations in state variable form.
Text Books:
1. Bimbhra P.S. “Generalized Theory of Electrical Machines”, Khanna Publishers 2002.
References:
1. Electrcial Machines Dynamics & Control. Sayed. A. Naser, Ion Bolder, CRC Press, 1992
2. Bimbhra P.S. “Generalized Theory of Electrical Machines”, Khanna Publishers 2002.
3. Dynamics of saturated Electrical Machines, Ostovic Vlado, e – book
20
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – I Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
Elective –I and II
(PES13) SPECIAL MACHINES
Prerequisites: Electrical Machines
Course Objectives:
• To know the use of special machines in different feed-back systems
• To understand the use of micro-processors for controlling different machines
• To know their applications as control systems components
Course Outcomes:
Upon the completion of this subject, the student will be able
• To use different special machines as part of control system components
• To use special machines as transducers for converting physical signals into electrical
signals
• To use micro-processors for controlling different machines
• To select different special machines as control system components
UNIT I:
Stepper Motors: Constructional features, principle of operation, modes of excitation, single
phase stepping motors, torque production in variable Reluctance (VR) stepping motor, Dynamic
characteristics, permanent magnet type Stepper Motor and Hybrid stepper Motors. Open loop
control, Closed loop control of stepping motor, microprocessor based controller.
UNIT II:
Synchronous Reluctance Motors: Constructional features: axial and radial air gap Motors.
Operating principle, reluctance torque –Phasor diagram, motor characteristics, linear induction
motors.
UNIT III:
Switched Reluctance Motors: Constructional features, principle of operation. Torque equation,
Power controllers, Characteristics and control. Microprocessor based controller. Sensor less
control.
UNIT IV:
Permanent Magnet Brushless DC Motors: Commutation in DC motors, Difference between
mechanical and electronic commutators, Hall sensors, Optical sensors, Multiphase Brushless
motor, Square wave permanent magnet brushless motor drives, Torque and emf equation,
Torque-speed characteristics, Controllers-Microprocessor based controller. Sensorless control.
UNIT V:
Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motors: Principle of operation, EMF, power input and torque
expressions, Phasor diagram, Power controllers, Torque speed characteristics, Self control,
Vector control, Current control schemes. Sensor less control.
Permanent Magnet Axial Flux (PMAF) Machines: Construction, Armature windings –
Toroidal Stator and Trapezoidal Stator Windings, Torque and EMF equations, Phasor diagram
and output equation.
21
Text Books:
1. Brushless Permanent Magnet and Reluctance Motor Drives by T.J.E. Miller, Clarendon
Press, Oxford, 1989.
2. Stepping Motors – A Guide to Motor Theory and Practice by P.P. Aearnley, Peter
Perengrinus, London, 1982.
3. Special electrical machines, K. Venkataratnam, University press, 2009
4. Special electrical machines, E. G. Janardanan, Eastern Economy Edition, PHI.
References:
1. T. Kenjo, Stepping Motors and Their Microprocessor Controls, Clarendon Press London,
1984.
2. Permanent Magnet and Brushless DC Motors byT. Kenjo and S. Nagamori, Clarendon Press,
London, 1988.
3. Special Electrical Machines by K.Venkataratnam, University press, 2008.
4. Generalized theory of electrical machines by P.S.Bimbra, Khanna Publications, 4th edition.
22
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – I Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
Elective –I and II
(PSS13) AI TECHNIQUES IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
Prerequisites: Control Systems, Power Systems, Electrical Drives
Course Objectives:
• To locate soft commanding methodologies, such as artificial neural networks, Fuzzy logic
and genetic Algorithms.
• To observe the concepts of feed forward neural networks and about feedback neural
networks.
• To practice the concept of fuzziness involved in various systems and comprehensive
knowledge of fuzzy logic control and to design the fuzzy control
• To analyze genetic algorithm, genetic operations and genetic mutations.
Course Outcomes:
Upon the completion of the subject, the student will be able to
• Quote feed forward neural networks and learning and understanding of feedback neural
networks.
• Generalize fuzziness involved in various systems and fuzzy set theory.
• Select fuzzy logic control and design
• Examine genetic algorithm and applications in electrical engineering.
UNIT I:
Artificial Neural Networks: Introduction to AI, classification of AI techniques - Knowledge
representation -Models of Neural Network - Architectures –Learning process - Learning Rules
and Algorithms – Error correction learning – Hebbian learning –Competitive learning ––
Supervised learning – Unsupervised learning– Reinforcement learning- learning tasks.
UNIT II:
Single & Multilayer Feed Forward Neural Networks: Introduction, Perceptron Models:
Training Algorithms: Importance of Perception Convergence theorem, Limitations of the
Perceptron Model, Applications. Generalized Delta Rule, Derivation of Backpropagation (BP)
Training, Summary of Backpropagation Algorithm, Learning Difficulties and Improvements,
Applications.
UNIT III:
Fuzzy Logic: Introduction – Fuzzy versus crisp – Fuzzy sets - Membership function – Basic
Fuzzy set operations – Properties of Fuzzy sets –Operations on Fuzzy relations – Min Max
operations - Fuzzification, Membership value assignment, development of rule base and decision
making system, Defuzzification to crisp sets, Defuzzification methods.
UNIT IV:
Genetic Algorithms: Introduction-Encoding –Fitness Function-Reproduction operators-Genetic
Modeling –Genetic operators-Crossover-Single – site crossover-Two point crossover –Multi
point crossover-Uniform crossover – Matrix crossover-Crossover Rate-Inversion & Deletion –
Mutation operator – Mutation –Mutation Rate-Bit-wise operators-Generational cycle-
convergence of Genetic - Problems on optimization-Algorithm
23
UNIT V:
Applications of AI Techniques: Control and Process Monitoring, fault diagnosis and load
forecasting, Function Approximation, – Load flow studies – Economic load dispatch – Load
frequency control –Single area system and two area system – Position and speed control of DC
and AC Motors.
Text Books:
1. S. Rajasekaran and G.A.V.Pai, “Neural Networks, Fuzzy Logic & Genetic Algorithms”-PHI,
New Delhi, 2003.
2. Bart Kosko,”Neural Network & Fuzzy System” Prentice Hall, 1992.
References:
1. P.D.Wasserman,Van Nostrand Reinhold,”Neural Computing Theory & Practice” New
York,1989.
2. G.J.Klir and T.A.Folger,”Fuzzy sets,Uncertainty and Information”-PHI, Pvt.Ltd,1994.
3. D.E.Goldberg,” Genetic Algorithms”- Addison Wesley 1999.
24
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – I Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
Elective –I and II
(PES14) ELECTRIC AND HYBRID VEHICLES
Course Prerequisites: Physics, Basic Electrical Engineering.
Course Objectives:
• Study the concepts and drivetrain configurations of electric drive vehicles
• provide different electric propulsion systems and energy storage devices
• Explain the technology, design methodologies and control strategy of electric drive
vehicles
• Emphasize on solar and fuel cell applications in automobiles
Course Outcomes:
Student should be able to
• Understand the concepts and drivetrain configurations of electric drive vehicles
• Present different electric propulsion systems and energy storage devices
• Discuss the technology, design methodologies and control strategy of electric drive
vehicles
• Appreciate the solar and fuel cell applications in automobiles
UNIT I:
Electric Vehicles: Layout of an electric vehicle, performance of electric vehicles, traction motor
characteristics, tractive effort, transmission requirements, vehicle performance, energy
consumption, advantage and limitations, specifications, system components and electronic
control system.
UNIT II:
Hybrid Vehicles: Concepts of hybrid electric drive train, types, architecture of series and
parallel hybrid electric drive train, merits and demerits, series and parallel hybrid electric drive
train design.
UNIT III:
Electric Propulsion Systems: DC motor drives, Induction motor drives, permanent magnet
brushless DC motor drives and switched reluctance motor drives.
UNIT IV:
Motor Controllers and Control Systems: Control system principles, speed and torque control –
DC motors and AC motors.
UNIT V:
Energy Storages: Electromechanical batteries - Types of batteries, lead acid batteries, nickel
based batteries, lithium based batteries, electrochemical reactions, thermodynamic voltage,
specific energy, specific power, energy efficiency and ultracapacitors.
Text Books:
1. Mehrdad Ehsani, Yimin Gao, sebastien E. Gay and Ali Emadi, “Modern Electric, Hybrid
Electric and Fuel Cell Vehicles: Fundamentals, Theory and Design”, CRS Press, 2004.
25
2. James Larminie and John Loury, “Electric Vehicle Technology-Explained”, John Wiley &
Sons Ltd., 2003.
References:
1. Sandeep Dhameja, “Electric Vehicle Battery Systems”, Butterworth –Heinemann, 2002.
2. Ronald K Jurgen, “Electric and Hybrid – Electric Vehicles”, SAE, 2002.
3. Ron Hodkinson and John Fenton, “Light Weight Electric/Hybrid Vehicle Design”,
Butterworth- Heinemann publications, 2001
26
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – I Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
Elective –I and II
(PES15) VLSI DESIGN
Prerequisites:
• Basics of VLSI Design and Semiconductor Physics.
Course Objectives:
• To comprehend basic electrical properties of MOS transistor technologies.
• To discuss layouts for combinational circuits with different alternate gate structures.
• To understand different MOS technologies and their fabrication processes .
• To learn about IC package functions and operations.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will able to
• Analyze the relation between various MOS Transistors parameters.
• Design layouts with different alternate gate structures.
• Apply the concept of fabrication process in manufacturing ICs.
• Understand the Bi-CMOS characteristics and package operations.
UNIT I:
Review of Microelectronics and Introduction to MOS Technologies: MOS, CMOS, Bi-
CMOS Technology. Basic Electrical Properties of MOS, CMOS & Bi-CMOS Circuits: I – V
ds ds
relationships, Threshold Voltage V , G , G and ω , Pass Transistor, MOS, CMOS & Bi-CMOS
T m ds o
Inverters, Z /Z , MOS Transistor circuit model, Latch-up in CMOS circuits.
pu pd
UNIT II:
Layout Design and Tools: Transistor structures, Wires and vias, Scalable Design rules, Layout
Design tools.
Logic Gates & Layouts: Static Complementary Gates, Switch Logic, Alternative Gate circuits,
Low power gates, Resistive and Inductive interconnect delays.
UNIT III:
Overview of semiconductor industry, Stages of Manufacturing, Process and product trends,
Crystal growth, Basic wafer fabrication operations, process yields, Semiconductor material
preparation, Basic wafer fabrication operations, Yield measurement, Contamination sources,
Clean room construction, Oxidation and Photolithography, Doping and Depositions,
Metallization. Ten step patterning process, Photoresists, physical properties of photoresists,
Storage and control of photoresists, photo masking process, Hard bake, develop inspect, Dry
etching Wet etching, resist stripping
UNIT IV:
Doping and Depositions: Diffusion process steps, deposition, Drive-in oxidation, Ion
implantation-1, Ion implantation-2, CVD basics, CVD process steps, Low pressure CVD
systems, Plasma enhanced CVD systems, Vapor phase epitoxy, molecular beam epitaxy.
UNIT V:
Design Rules and Scaling, BI-CMOS ICs: Choice of transistor types, pnp transistors, Resistors,
capacitors.
27
Packaging: Chip characteristics, package functions, package operations
Text Books:
1. Essentials of VLSI circuits and systems – Kamran Eshraghian, Dougles and A. Pucknell, PHI
Edition, 2005.
2. Microchip fabrication- Peter Van Zant,, McGraw Hill, 1997.
3. ULSI technology - C.Y. Chang and S.M. Sze, McGraw Hill, 2000
4. Modern VLSI Design –Wayne Wolf, Pearson Education , 3rd Edition, 1997.
References:
1. Micro Electronics circuits Analysis and Design 2nd Edition, Muhammad H Rashid, CENAGE
Learning2011.
2. Introduction to VLSI design - Eugene D. Fabricius, McGraw Hill, 1999
3. The VLSI Hand book - Wani-Kai Chen (editor),CRI/IEEE press, 2000
4. VLSI Fabrication principles - S.K. Gandhi, John Wiley and Sons, NY, 1994
28
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – I Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(Open Elective-I)
(PSS31) MICROCONTROLLERS AND APPLICATIONS
Prerequisite: None
Course Objectives:
• To relate the basic architecture and addressing modes of a stored-program computer.
• To summarize the principles of top down design to microcontroller software
development
• To demonstrate assembly language programs for the advanced Microcontroller ,
assembly language code for high-level language structures such as IF-THEN-ELSE
and DO-WHILE
• To analyze a typical I/O interface and to discuss timing issues
• To identify different types of memory used in microcontroller systems
Course Outcomes:
Upon the completion of the subject, the student will be able to
• Distinguish Types of computers & microcontrollers,
• Construct Real time Applications of Microcontrollers.
• Demonstrate RTOS for Microcontrollers.
• Translate Hardware applications using Microcontrollers.
UNIT I:
Overview and Architecture of 8051 Resources: Architecture of a microcontroller –
Microcontroller resources – 8051 microcontroller – Internal and External memories – Counters
and Timers – Synchronous serial-cum asynchronous serial communication
UNIT II:
8051- Microcontrollers Instruction Set: Basic assembly language programming – Data transfer
instructions – Data and Bit-manipulation instructions – Arithmetic instructions – Instructions for
Logical operations on the test among the Registers, Internal RAM, and SFRs – Program flow
control instructions – Interrupt control flow.
UNIT III:
8051 Real Time Control: Interrupt handling structure of an MCU – Interrupt Latency and
Interrupt deadline– Multiple sources of the interrupts – Non-mask able interrupt sources –
Enabling or disabling of the sources – Polling to determine the interrupt source and assignment
of the priorities among them – Interrupt structure in Intel 8051.
UNIT IV:
Systems Design Digital and Analog Interfacing Methods: Switch, Keypad and Keyboard
interfacings – LED and Array of LEDs, ADC and DAC Interfacing to 8051 – Programmable
instruments interface using IEEE 488 Bus – Interfacing with the Flash Memory – Optical motor
shaft encoders – Industrial control – Industrial process control system – Prototype MCU based
Measuring instruments – Robotics and Embedded control
29
UNIT V:
Real Time Operating System & ARM7: Real Time operating system – RTOS of Keil (RTX51)
– Use of RTOS in Design – Software development tools for Microcontrollers.
ARM7: Introduction to 32 bit processors – ARM architecture and organization – ARM / Thumb
programming model – ARM / Thumb instruction set – Development tools.
Text Books:
1. Raj Kamal,” Microcontrollers Architecture, Programming, Interfacing and System
Design”– Pearson Education, 2005.
2. Mazidi and Mazidi, “The 8051 Microcontroller and Embedded Systems” – PHI, 2000.
References:
1. A.V. Deshmuk, “Microcontrollers (Theory & Applications)” – WTMH, 2005.
2. John B. Peatman, “Design with PIC Microcontrollers” – Pearson Education, 2005.
3. Microcontroller Programming, Julio Sanchez, Maria P. Canton, CRC Press.
4. The 8051 Microcontroller, Ayala, Cengage Learning.
5. Microprocessors and Microcontrollers, Architecture, Programming and System Design,
Krishna Kant, PHI Learning PVT. Ltd.
6. Microprocessors, Nilesh B. Bahadure, 2010,PHI Learning PVT. Ltd.
30
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – II Sem M.Tech (Power Systems) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(Open Elective-I)
(PSS31) ENERGY AUDITING, CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT
Prerequisite: None
Course Objectives:
• To know the necessity of conservation of energy
• To generalize the methods of energy management
• To illustrate the factors to increase the efficiency of electrical equipment
• To detect the benefits of carrying out energy audits.
Course Outcomes:
Upon the completion of the subject, the student will be able to
• Tell energy audit of industries
• Predict management of energy systems
• Sequence the methods of improving efficiency of electric motor
• Analyze the power factor and to design a good illumination system
• Determine pay back periods for energy saving equipment
UNIT I:
Basic Principles of Energy Audit: Energy audit- definitions, concept , types of audit, energy
index, cost index ,pie charts, Sankey diagrams, load profiles, Energy conservation schemes-
Energy audit of industries- energy saving potential, energy audit of process industry, thermal
power station, building energy audit.
UNIT II:
Energy Management: Principles of energy management, organizing energy management
program, initiating, planning, controlling, promoting, monitoring, reporting- Energy manager,
Qualities and functions, language, Questionnaire – check list for top management.
UNIT III:
Energy Efficient Motors: Energy efficient motors , factors affecting efficiency, loss distribution
, constructional details , characteristics - variable speed , variable duty cycle systems, RMS hp-
voltage variation-voltage unbalance- over motoring- motor energy audit
UNIT IV:
Power Factor Improvement, Lighting and Energy Instruments: Power factor – methods of
improvement, location of capacitors, Pf with non linear loads, effect of harmonics on power
factor, power factor motor controllers - Good lighting system design and practice, lighting
control ,lighting energy audit - Energy Instruments- wattmeter, data loggers, thermocouples,
pyrometers, lux meters, tongue testers ,application of PLC’s.
UNIT V:
Economic Aspects and Analysis: Economics Analysis-Depreciation Methods, time value of
money, rate of return , present worth method , replacement analysis, life cycle costing analysis-
Energy efficient motors- calculation of simple payback method, net present worth method-
Power factor correction, lighting - Applications of life cycle costing analysis, return on
investment .
31
Text Books:
1. Energy management by W.R. Murphy AND G. Mckay Butter worth, Heinemann
publications.
2. Energy management by Paul o’ Callaghan, Mc-graw Hill Book company-1st edition, 1998
References:
1. Energy efficient electric motors by John .C. Andreas, Marcel Dekker Inc Ltd-2nd edition,
1995-
2. Energy management hand book by W.C.Turner, John wiley and sons
3. Energy management and good lighting practice : fuel efficiency- booklet12-EEO
32
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – I Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(Open Elective-I)
(PES32) ADVANCED DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING
Prerequisite: None
Course Objectives:
i. To have an overview of signals and systems and DFT & FFT Transforms.
ii. To study the design of IIR & FIR filters.
iii. To study the applications of DSP techniques in processors.
Course Outcome:
At the end of the course, the student will be able to:
i. Understand types of digital signals and Transforms and its application to signals and
systems.
ii. Design of IIR & FIR filters.
iii. Understand different DSP processors and basic programming skills.
UNIT I:
Review of Discrete Time Systems: Discrete time Signals-Sequences –Stability and Causality –
Frequency domain Representation of Discrete time Systems and Signals –Two-dimensional
Sequences and Systems –Z-Transform –ZTransform Theorems and Properties –Two-dimensional
Z Transform. Structures for discrete time system – Direct, cascade and parallel forms –Lattice
structure.
UNIT II:
Discrete Fourier Transform: Representation of Periodic Sequences-the Discrete Fourier Series
–Properties of the discrete Fourier series –Sampling, Z-transform –discrete Fourier transform –
properties of discrete Fourier Transform –Linear Convolution –Decimation –in- Time and
Decimation in- Frequency –FFT Algorithms
UNIT III:
Digital Filter Design Techniques: Introduction – Design of IIR Digital Filters from Analog
Filters –Analog –Digital Transformation –Properties of FIR Digital Filters –Design of FIR Filters
Using Windows –A Comparison of IIR and FIR Digital Filters.
UNIT IV:
Finite Register Length Effects: Introduction - Effects of coefficient on Quantization –
Quantization in Sampling -Analog Signals- Finite Register Length effects in realizations of
Digital Filters – discrete Fourier Transform Computations.
UNIT V:
Advanced DSP Processors: Commercial DSP devices – TMS C240 processor, TMS320C,
ADSP 2181 processor –Architecture – Addressing modes – Program control – Instruction and
programming –Simple programs.
33
References:
1. Emmanuel C. Ifeachor, Barrie W. Jervis, “Digital Signal Processing: A Practical Approach”,
Pearson Education India Series, New Delhi, 2nd Edition, 2004
2. Sanjit K Mitra, “Digital Signals Processing: A Computer Based Approach”, Tata McGraw-
Hill Publishing Company Limited, New Delhi 2nd Edition, 2004.
3. Alan Oppenheim. V and Ronald W.Schafer, “Digital Signal Processing”, Prentice Hall of
4. India Private.Limited. New Delhi,2ndEdition 1989.
5. John G. Proakis and Manolakis. D.G, “Digital Signal Processing: Principles Algorithms and
Applications,” Prentice Hall of India, New Delhi, 2004.
6. Avatar Singh and Srinivasan. S , “ Digital Signal Processing: Implementation using DSP
7. Microprocessors with Examples from TMS 320C54XX, Thompson Brooks/Cole,Florence,
USA 2004.
34
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – I Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(PES51) POWER CONVERTERS SIMULATION LAB
Pre-requisites: All core subjects and suitable simulation softwares
Course Objectives:
• Students must be able to write the programs for the given problem / system using suitable
software
• Students must be able to model the given problem / system using suitable software
Course Outcomes :
Student will be able to
1. Acquire knowledge about potential softwares used in electrical engineering.
2. Choose and simulate any problem related to Power Electronics and allied fields using
appropriate soft wares
3. Validate the obtained results and maintain the record
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS:
1. Single Phase Controlled Rectifiers with R, RL and RLE loads.
2. Three Phase Controlled Rectifiers with R, RL and RLE loads.
3. DC-DC Converters with RL Load.
4. Single Phase AC Voltage controller with RL load.
5. Three Phase AC Voltage controller with RL load.
6. Single Phase Cyclo Converter with RL load.
7. Three Phase Cyclo Converter with RL load.
8. Three Phase Matrix Converter with RL load.
9. Single-Phase Inverter using PWM Controller with RL Load.
10. Three-Phase Inverter using PWM Controller with RL Load.
11. Modelling of DC machines
12. Modelling of Induction Machines
13. Modelling of Synchronous Machines
14. Phase controlled rectifier fed DC Motor Drive
15. Chopper fed DC motor Drive
16. Three Phase Voltage source inverter fed Induction Machine
17. Three Phase current source inverter fed Induction Machine
18. Three Phase AC voltage controller fed Induction Machine
35
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – I Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
0 6 4
(PES61) MINI PROJECT-I
Course Objectives:
• To improve the capability of surveying for required literature.
• To inculcate the design ability of electrical systems
• To enhance the skills of fabricating the hardware projects
• To correlate the experimental results with theoretical/designed data.
Course Outcomes:
• Carry out Literature study and give problem statement
• Select Control Strategy, design methodology and develop a suitable model for the chosen
problem
• Execute and validate the Model
• Communicate effectively
• Write a technical report
36
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – II Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(PES04) ANALYSIS OF POWER ELECTRONICS CONVERTERS – II
Prerequisites: Power Electronics, Electronic devices and circuits
Course Objectives:
• To understand the operation of various semi conductor devices
• To analyze resonant pulse converters
• To describe the operation of multi level inverters with switching strategies for high power
• applications
• to appreciate the design of switch mode power supplies.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
• Comprehend the semiconductor device switch characteristics
• Analyze and assess multilevel inverters and resonant pulse converters
• To design switch mode power supplies
UNIT I:
Resonant Pulse Inverters: Resonant pulse inverters – series resonant inverters – series resonant
inverters With unidirectional switches – series resonant inverters with bidirectional
Switches – analysis of half bridge resonant inverter – evaluation of currents and Voltages of a
simple resonant inverter – analysis of half bridge and full bridge resonant inverter with
bidirectional switches – Frequency response of series resonant inverters – for series loaded
inverter – for parallel loaded inverter – For series and parallel loaded inverters – parallel resonant
inverters – Voltage control of resonant inverters – class E resonant inverter – class E resonant
rectifier – evaluation of values of C’s and L’s for class E inverter and Class E rectifier –
numerical problems.
Resonant Converters: Resonant converters – zero current switching resonant converters – L
type ZCS resonant converter – M type ZCS resonant converter – zero voltage Switching
resonant converters – comparison between ZCS and ZVS resonant converters – Two quadrant
ZVS resonant converters – resonant dc-link Inverters – evaluation of L and C for a zero current
switching inverter – Numerical problems.
UNIT II:
Multilevel Inverters: Multilevel concept – Classification of multilevel inverters – Diode
clamped Multilevel inverter – principle of operation – main features – improved diode clamped
inverter – principle of operation –Flying capacitors multilevel inverter -principle of operation –
main features – cascaded multilevel inverter – principle of operation – main features – Multilevel
inverter applications – reactive power compensation – back to back intertie system – adjustable
drives -Switching device currents – dc link capacitor voltage balancing – features of Multilevel
inverters – comparisons of multilevel converters.
UNIT III:
DC Power Supplies: DC power supplies – classification - switched mode dc power supplies –
flyback Converter – forward converter – push-pull converter – half bridge converter – Full
bridge converter – Resonant d c power supplies – bidirectional power Supplies – Applications.
37
UNIT IV:
AC Power Supplies: AC power supplies – classification – switched mode ac power supplies –
Resonant AC power supplies – bidirectional ac power supplies – multistage conversions –
control circuits – applications.
Power Conditioners and Uninterruptible Power Supplies: Introduction – power line
disturbances – power conditioners – uninterruptible Power supplies – applications.
UNIT V:
Protection of Devices and Circuits: Introduction Cooling and Heat Sinks- Thermal modeling of
power switching devices- snubber circuits- reverse recovery transients- voltage protection by
selenium diodes and metal oxide varistors- current protection- electromagnetic interference
Text Books:
1. Power Electronics – Mohammed H. Rashid –Pearson Education – Third Edition – first Indian
reprint – 2004.
2. Power Electronics – Ned Mohan , Tore M. Undeland and William P. Robbins – John Wiley
& Sons –Second Edition.
38
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – II Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(PES05) POWER ELECTRONIC CONTROL OF A.C. DRIVES
Prerequisites: Power Electronics, AC machines and control systems
Course Objectives:
• Detailed Explanation of the operation, function and interaction between various
components and sub-systems used in power electronic converters, electric machines
and adjustable-speed drives
• To Comprehend the scalar and vector control for ac motor drive (IM and SM)
• To explain the static resistance control and Slip power recovery drives
• To explain synchronous motor drive characteristics and its control strategies
• To Comprehend the brushless dc motor principle of operation.
Course Outcomes:
• Understand the principle of operation of ac motor to derive the torque equation and
speed torque slip characteristics.
• Assess the performance characteristics of voltage controlled induction motor drives,
frequency controlled induction motor drives and vector control drive.
• Comprehend the ac drive control strategies
• Recognize the difference between the conventional and static rotor resistance control
methods and significance of slip power recovery drives.
• Analyses the operation of variable reluctance motor and brushless dc motor drives
UNIT I:
Introduction to AC Drives: Introduction to motor drives – Torque production – Equivalent
circuit analysis – Speed-Torque Characteristics with Variable voltage operation, Variable
frequency operation, constant v/f operation – Variable stator current operation – Induction motor
characteristics in constant torque and field weakening regions
UNIT II:
Control of Induction Motor Drives at Stator Side: Scalar control – Voltage fed inverter
control – Open loop volts/Hz control – speed control slip regulation – speed control with torque
and flux control – current controlled voltage fed inverter drive – current-fed inverter control –
Independent current and frequency control – Speed and flux control in Current-Fed inverter drive
– Volts/Hz control of Current-fed inverter drive – Efficiency optimization control by flux
program
UNIT III:
Control of Induction Motor Drives at Rotor Side: Slip power recovery drives – Static Kramer
Drive – Phasor diagram –Torque expression - Speed control of a Kramer Drive – Static
Scheribus Drive – modes of operation
Vector Control of Induction Motor Drives:
Principles of Vector control – Vector control methods – Direct method of vector control –
Indirect method of vector control – Principle of Direct Torque Control- fundamentals of
producing fast torque response-Adaptive control principles – Self tuning regulator – Model
referencing control.
39
UNIT IV:
Control of Synchronous Motor Drives:
Synchronous motor and its characteristics – Control strategies – Constant torque angle control –
unity power factor control Constant mutual flux linkage control
Controllers: Flux weakening operation – Maximum speed – Direct flux weakening algorithm –
Constant Torque mode controller – Flux Weakening controller – Indirect flux weakening –
Maximum permissible torque – speed control scheme – Implementation strategy – Speed
controller design.
UNIT V:
Variable Reluctance Motor Drive: Variable Reluctance motor drives - Torque production in
the variable reluctance motor – Drive characteristics and control principles – Current control
variable reluctance motor servo drive
Brushless DC Motor Drives: Three phase full wave Brushless dc motor – Sinusoidal type of
Brushless dc motor – current controlled Brushless dc motor Servo drive
Text Books:
1. Modern Power Electronics and AC Drives – B.K.Bose – Pearson Publications – 1st edition
2. Power Electronics and AC Drives – B.K.Bose – Prentice Hall, Eagle wood diffs New
Jersey(for chapters I, II, IV) – 1st edition
3. Electric Motor Drives Pearson Modeling, Analysis & Control – R.Krishnan – Publications –
1st edition – 2002
4. Power Electronic control of AC Motors – MD Murphy & FG Turn Bull Pergman Press(For
Chapters II, III, V) – 1st edition
References:
1. Power Electronic circuits, Devices and Applications – M.H.Rashid – PHI - 1995
2. Fundamentals of Electrical Drives – G.K.Dubey – Narora publications - 1995
3. (For Chapter II)
4. Power Electronics and Variable frequency drives – B.K.Bose – IEEE Press – Standar
publications -1st edition – 2002
5. Sensorless Vector and Direct Torque Control- Peter Vas-Oxford University Press-1998
40
Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – II Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(PES06) MODERN CONTROL THEORY
Prerequisites : Linear control systems
Course Objectives:
• To explain the concepts of basic and modern control system for the real time analysis and
design of control systems.
• To Explain and apply concepts of state variables analysis.
• To study and analyze non linear systems.
• To Analyze the concept of stability of nonlinear systems and categorization.
• To apply the comprehensive knowledge of optimal theory for Control Systems.
Course Outcomes:
• Apply the knowledge of basic and modern control system for the real time analysis and
design of control systems.
• Understand the concepts of state variable analysis
• Analyze the concept of stability of nonlinear systems and optimal control
UNIT I:
Mathematical Preliminaries: Fields, Vectors and Vector Spaces – Linear combinations and
Bases – Linear Transformations and Matrices – Scalar Product and Norms – Eigenvalues, Eigen
Vectors and a Canonical form representation of Linear operators – The concept of state – State
Equations for Dynamic systems – Time invariance and Linearity – Nonuniqueness of state model
– State diagrams for Continuous-Time State models –
UNIT II:
State Variable Analysis: Linear Continuous time models for Physical systems– Existence and
Uniqueness of Solutions to Continuous-Time State Equations – Solutions of Linear Time
Invariant Continuous-Time State Equations – State transition matrix and it’s properties
Controllability and Observability: General concept of controllability – General concept of
Observability – Controllability tests for Continuous-Time Invariant Systems – Observability tests
for Continuous-Time Invariant Systems – Controllability and Observability of State Model in
Jordan Canonical form – Controllability and Observability Canonical forms of State model
UNIT III:
Non Linear Systems -I: Introduction – Non Linear Systems - Types of Non-Linearities –
Saturation – Dead-Zone - Backlash – Jump Phenomenon etc;– Singular Points – Introduction to
Linearization of nonlinear systems, Properties of Non-Linear systems – Describing function–
describing function analysis of nonlinear systems – Stability analysis of Non-Linear systems
through describing functions
Non Linear Systems -II: Introduction to phase-plane analysis, Method of Isoclines for
Constructing Trajectories, singular points, phase-plane analysis of nonlinear control systems.
UNIT IV:
Stability Analysis: Stability in the sense of Lyapunov, Lyapunov’s stability and Lypanov’s
instability theorems - Stability Analysis of the Linear continuous time invariant systems by
41
Lyapunov second method – Generation of Lyapunov functions – Variable gradient method –
Krasooviski’s method.
State Feedback Controllers and Observers:
State feedback controller design through Pole Assignment – State observers: Full order and
Reduced order
UNIT V:
Introduction to optimal control - Formulation of optimal control problems – calculus of
variations – fundamental concepts, functionals, variation of functionals – fundamental theorem of
theorem of Calculus of variations – boundary conditions – constrained minimization –
formulation using Hamiltonian method – Linear Quadratic regulator
Text Books:
1. Modern Control System Theory by M.Gopal – New Age International -1984
2. Control System Engineering, Nagrath and Gopal - New Age International – Fourth Edition
References:
1. Optimal control by Kirck , Dover Publications
2. Advanced Control Theory A. Nagoor Kani, RBA Publications, 1999
3. Modern Control Engineering by Ogata.K – Prentice Hall - 1997
42
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – II Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
Elective-III and IV
(PSS21) POWER QUALITY
Prerequisites: Analysis of power electronic converters, Power systems
Course Objectives:
• Definition of power quality and different terms of power quality.
• Study of voltage power quality issue - short and long interruption
• Detail study of characterization of voltage sag magnitude and three phase unbalanced
voltage sag.
• Know the behavior of power electronics loads; induction motors, synchronous motor etc
by the power quality issues
• Overview of mitigation of power quality issues by the VSI converters.
Course Outcomes:
• Know the severity of power quality problems in distribution system;
• Understand the concept of voltage sag transformation from up-stream (higher
voltages) to down-stream (lower voltage);
• Concept of improving the power quality to sensitive load by various mitigating custom
power devices;
UNIT I:
Introduction: Introduction of the Power Quality (PQ) problem, Terms used in PQ: Voltage, Sag,
Swell, Surges, Harmonics, over voltages, spikes, Voltage fluctuations, Transients, Interruption,
overview of power quality phenomenon, Remedies to improve power quality, power quality
monitoring
UNIT II:
Long Interruptions: Interruptions – Definition – Difference between failure, outage,
Interruptions – causes of Long Interruptions – Origin of Interruptions – Limits for the
Interruption frequency – Limits for the interruption duration – costs of Interruption – Overview
of Reliability evaluation to power quality, comparison of observations and reliability evaluation.
Short Interruptions: Short interruptions – definition, origin of short interruptions, basic
principle, fuse saving, voltage magnitude events due to re-closing, voltage during the
interruption, monitoring of short interruptions, difference between medium and low voltage
systems. Multiple events, single phase tripping – voltage and current during fault period, voltage
and current at post fault period, stochastic prediction of short interruptions.
UNIT III:
Voltage sag – Characterization – Single Phase: Voltage sag – definition, causes of voltage
sag, voltage sag magnitude,monitoring, theoretical calculation of voltage sag magnitude, voltage
sag calculation in non-radial systems, meshed systems, voltage sag duration.
Voltage sag – characterization – Three Phase: Three phase faults, phase angle jumps,
magnitude and phase angle jumps forthree phase unbalanced sags, load influence on voltage
sags.
43
UNIT IV:
PQ Considerations in Industrial Power Systems: Voltage sag – equipment behaviour of Power
electronic loads, induction motors, synchronous motors, computers, consumer electronics,
adjustable speed AC drives and its operation. Mitigation of AC Drives, adjustable speed DC
drives and its operation, mitigation methods of DC drives. Harmonics, Harmonics indices, Inter
harmonics, Notching – Voltage vs Current distortion – Harmonics vs Transients – Sources and
effects of harmonic distortion – System response characteristics – Principles of controlling
harmonics – Standards and limitation – Mitigation and control techniques.
UNIT V:
Mitigation of Interruptions and Voltage Sags: Overview of mitigation methods – from fault to
trip, reducing the number of faults, reducing the fault learing time changing the power system,
installing mitigation equipment, improving equipment immunity, different events and mitigation
methods. System equipment interface – voltage source converter, series voltage controller, shunt
controller, combined shunt and series controller.
Power Quality and EMC Standards: Introduction to standardization, IEC Electromagnetic
compatibility standards, European voltage characteristics standards, PQ surveys.
References:
1. “Understanding Power Quality Problems” by Math H J Bollen. IEEE Press.
2. Roger C. Durgan, Mark F. McGranaghan and H.Wayne Beaty, “Electrical Power Systems
Quality”, Tatat McGraw-Hill, 2nd Edition, New York, 2008
3. Sankaran.C, “Power Quality”, CRC Press, Washington D.C., 2002.
44
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – II Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
Elective-III and IV
(PES21) DIGITAL CONTROL SYSTEMS
Prerequisites : Linear control systems, Z-Transforms
Course Objectives:
• To explain basic and digital control system for the real time analysis and design of
control systems.
• To apply the knowledge state variable analysis in the design of discrete systems.
• To explain the concept of stability analysis and design of discrete time systems.
Course Outcomes:
• Illustrate the concepts of Digital control systems.
• Analyse and design discrete systems in state variable analysis.
• Relate the concepts of stability analysis and design of discrete time systems.
UNIT I:
Sampling and Reconstruction: Introduction, sample and hold operations, sampling theorem,
Reconstruction of original sampled signal to continuous –time signal.
The Z – Transforms: Introduction, Linear difference equations, pulse response, Z – transforms,
Theorems of Z – Transforms, the inverse Z – transforms, Modified Z- Transforms
Z-Plane Analysis of Discrete-Time Control System: Z-Transform method for solving
difference equations; Pulse transforms function, block diagram analysis of sampled – data
systems, mapping between s-plane and z-plane: primary strips and complementary strips.
UNIT II:
State Space Analysis: State Space Representation of discrete time systems, Pulse Transfer
Function Matrix solving discrete time state space equations, State transition matrix and it’s
Properties, Methods for Computation of State Transition Matrix, Discretization of continuous
time state – space equations
Controllability and Observability: Concepts of Controllability and Observability, Tests for
controllability and Observability. Duality between Controllability and Observability,
Controllability and Observability conditions for Pulse Transfer Function
UNIT III:
Stability Analysis: Stability Analysis of closed loop systems in the Z-Plane. Jury stablility test –
Stability Analysis by use of the Bilinear Transformation and Routh Stability criterion. Stability
analysis using Liapunov theorems.
UNIT IV:
Design of Discrete Time Control System by Conventional Methods: Design based on the
frequency response method – Bilinear Transformation and Design procedure in the w-plane,
Lead, Lag and Lead-Lag compensators and digital PID controllers. Design digital control through
deadbeat response method.
UNIT V:
State Feedback Controllers and Observers: Design of state feedback controller through pole
placement – Necessary and sufficient conditions, Ackerman’s formula.
45
State Observers – Full order and Reduced order observers.
Linear Quadratic Regulators: Min/Max principle ,Linear Quadratic Regulators, Kalman, state
estimation through Kalman filter, Introduction to adaptive controls.
Text Books:
1. Discrete-Time Control systems - K. Ogata, Pearson Education/PHI, 2nd Edition
2. Digital Control and State Variable Methods by M.Gopal, TMH, Third Edition
References:
1. Digital Control Systems, Kuo, Oxford University Press, 2ndEdition, 2003.
2. Digital Control Engineering, M.Gopal, New Age International Publishers, 2003
3. Control Systems Engineering, I.J. Nagrath and Gopal, Prentice Hall, 3rd Edition.
46
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – II Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
Elective-III and IV
(PES22) EMBEDDED SYSTEMS
Prerequisites: Microprocessors and Interfacing Devices
Course Objectives:
• To Comprehend the general embedded system concepts , design of embedded hardware
and software development tools
• To explain the basics of real time operating and embedded systems
• To Describe key issues such as CPU scheduling, memory management, task
synchronization, and
file system in the context of real-time embedded systems.
Course Outcomes:
• Analyze and design embedded systems and real time systems
• Define the unique design problems and challenges of real time systems
• Identify the unique characteristics of real time operating systems and evaluate the need
for real time operating system
• Explain the general structure of a real time system and understand and use RTOS to build
an embedded real time system
• Gain knowledge and skills necessary to design and develop embedded applications based
on real time operating systems
UNIT I:
An Introduction to Embedded Systems: An Embedded system, processor in the system, other
hardware units, software embedded into a system, exemplary embedded systems, embedded
system – on – chip (SOC) and in VLSI circuit. Processor and memory organization – Structural
units in a Processor, Processor selection for an embedded system, memory devices, memory
selection for an embedded systems, allocation of memory to program cache and memory
management links, segments and blocks and memory map of a system, DMA, interfacing
processors, memories and Input Output Devices.
UNIT II:
Devices and Buses for Device Networks: I/O devices, timer and counting devices, serial
communication using the “I2 C” CAN, profibus foundation field bus. and advanced I/O buses
between the network multiple devices, host systems or computer parallel communication
between the networked I/O multiple devices using the ISA, PCI, PCI-X and advanced buses.
UNIT III:
Device Drivers and Interrupts Servicing Mechanism: Device drivers, parallel port and serial
port device drivers in a system, device drivers for internal programmable timing devices,
interrupt servicing mechanism
UNIT IV:
Programming Concepts and Embedded Programming in C, C++, VC++ and Java: Inter
process communication and synchronization of processes, task and threads, multiple processes in
an application, problem of sharing data by multiple tasks and routines, inter process
communication.
47
UNIT V:
Hardware: Software co-design in an embedded system, embedded system project management,
embedded system design and co-design issues in system development process, design cycle in
the development phase for an embedded system, use of target systems, use of software tools for
development of an embedded system, use of scopes and logic analysis for system, hardware
tests. Issues in embedded system design.
Text Books:
1. Embedded systems: Architecture, programming and design by Rajkamal, TMH
2. Embedded system design by Arnold S Burger, CMP
References:
1. An embedded software primer by David Simon, PEA
2. Embedded systems design:Real world design be Steve Heath; Butterworth Heinenann,
Newton mass USA 2002
3. Data communication by Hayt.
48
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – II Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
Elective-III and IV
(PES23) RELIABILITY ENGINEERING
Prerequisites: Mathematics, Power Systems-I & II, Distribution systems, Power System
Protection.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the concepts of Reliability and Unreliability
• Derive the expressions for Probability of failure, Expected value and standard deviation
of Binominal distribution, Poisson distribution, normal distribution and weibull
distributions.
• Formulating expressions for Reliability analysis of series-parallel and Non-series parallel
systems
• Deriving expressions for Time dependent and Limiting State Probabilities using Markov
models.
Course Outcomes:
• Apply fundamental knowledge of Reliability to modeling and analysis of series-
parallel and Non-series parallel systems.
• Solve some practical problems related with Generation, Transmission and Utilization of
Electrical Energy.
• Understand or become aware of various failures, causes of failures and remedies for
failures in practical systems.
UNIT I:
Rules for combining probabilities of events, Definition of Reliability. Significance of the terms
appearing in the definition.
Probability Distributions: Random variables, probability density and distribution functions.
Mathematical expectation, Binominal distribution, Poisson distribution, normal distribution,
weibull distribution.
UNIT II:
Hazard rate, derivation of the reliability function in terms of the hazard rate.
Failures: Causes of failures, types of failures (early failures, chance failures and wear-out
failures). Bath tub curve. Preventive and corrective maintenance. Modes of failure.
Measures of Reliability: mean time to failure and mean time between failures.
UNIT III:
Classification of Engineering Systems: Series, parallel and series-parallel systems-
Expressions for the reliability of the basic configurations.
Reliability Evaluation of Non-Series-Parallel Configurations: Decomposition, Path based and
cutest based methods, Deduction of the Paths and cutsets from Event tree.
UNIT IV:
Discrete Markov Chains: General modelling concepts, stochastic transitional probability
matrix, time dependent probability evaluation and limiting state probability evaluation of one
component repairable model. Absorbing states.
49
Continuous Markov Processes: Modelling concepts, State space diagrams, Stochastic
Transitional Probability Matrix, Evaluating time dependent and limiting state Probabilities of one
component repairable model. Evaluation of Limiting state probabilities of two component
repairable model.
UNIT V:
Approximate system Reliability analysis of Series systems, parallel systems with two and more
than two components, Network reduction techniques. Minimal cutest/failure mode approach.
Text Books:
1. “Reliability evaluation of Engineering systems Concepts and Techniques, Roy Billinton and
Ronald N Allan, second edition .BS Publications.
2. “Reliability Engineering”, Elsayed A. Elsayed, Wiley Publications, Second Edition.
References:
1. “Reliability Engineering: Theory and Practice”, By Alessandro Birolini, Springer Publications.
2. “An Introduction to Reliability and Maintainability Engineering”, Charles Ebeling, TMH
Publications.
3. “Reliability Engineering”, E. Balaguruswamy, TMH Publications.
50
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – II sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
Elective-III and IV
(PES25) FACTS Controllers
Prerequisites: Power Electronics, Power Systems, Reactive power control
Course Objectives:
• Students should Comprehend the fundamentals of FACTS Controllers, Importance of
controllable parameters and types of FACTS controllers & their benefits
• To outline Objectives of Shunt and Series compensation
• To relate to the Control of STATCOM and SVC and their comparison And the regulation
of STATCOM
• To explain Functioning and control of GCSC, TSSC and TCSC
Course Outcomes:
Upon the completion of the subject, the student will be able to
• Analyze the Power and control circuits of Series Controllers GCSC, TSSC and TCSC.
• Select proper controller for the specific application based on the system requirements.
• Comprehend various systems thoroughly and their requirements
• Understand the control circuits of Shunt Controllers SVC & STATCOM for various
functions viz. Transient stability
• Enhancement, voltage instability prevention and power oscillation damping.
UNIT I:
Facts Concepts: Transmission interconnections power flow in an AC system- loading capability
limits- Dynamic stability considerations- importance of controllable parameters basic types of
FACTS controllers- benefits from FACTS controllers, Requirements and Characteristics of High
Power devices- Voltage and Current rating, Losses and speed of switching, parameter trade-off
of devices.
UNIT II:
Voltage Source Converters: Single phase three phase full wave bridge converters transformer
connections for 12 pulse 24 and 48 pulse operation- Three level voltage source converter-pulse
width modulation converter, basic concept of current source Converters- comparison of current
source converters with voltage source converters.
UNIT III:
Static Shunt Compensation: Objectives of shunt compensation- midpoint voltage regulation
voltage instability prevention- improvement of transient stability- Power oscillation damping-
Methods of controllable Var generation- variable impedance type static Var generators switching
converter type Var generators hybrid Var generators.
UNIT IV:
SVC and STATCOM: The regulation and slope transfer function and dynamic performance-
transient stability enhancement and power oscillation damping - operating point control -
summary of compensator control.
51
UNIT V:
Static Series Compensators: Concept of series capacitive compensation- improvement of
transient stability- power oscillation damping-Functional requirements- GTO thyristor controlled
series capacitor (GSC) - thyristor switched series capacitor (TSSC)-Thyristor Controlled Series
Capacitor(TCSC) - control schemes for GSC, TSSC and TCSC.
Text Books:
1. N.G. Hingorani and L. Guygi, “Understanding FACTS Devices” IEEE Press Publications
2000.
2. Padiyar, K. R. “FACTS Controllers in Power Transmission and Distribution” New Age
International Publications, 2007.
References:
1. Enrique Acha, “FACTS: modelling and simulation in power networks”, Wiley Publishers.
2. Hug song, “Flexible AC transmission system”, Wiley and Interline Publishers.
3. Bikash Pal, “Flexible AC transmission system: Modelling and control”, Springer Publishers.
4. Zhang, Xiao – Ping, Rehtanz, Christian, Pal, Bikash “FlexibleAC Transmission Systems:
Modelling and Control”, Singer, 2012.
5. Yong – Hua Sng, Allan Johns, “Flexible AC Transmission Systems”, IET, 1999.
52
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – II Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
Elective-III and IV
(PES24) ANALYSIS AND DESIGN OF SWITCHED MODE CONVERTERS
Prerequisites: Power Electronics, Electronic devices and circuits
Course Objectives:
• To get awareness on various modes of operation of DC-DC Converter
• To get awareness on control aspects of converter
• To get awareness on design aspects of converter
• To get awareness on Heat sink calculations
Course Outcomes :
Upon the completion of this subject, the student will be able
• To analyze various modes of operation of Dc-Dc converter
• To design simulate control topologies for converter
• To design various components of dc-dc converter
• To analyze dc-dc converter in thermal point of view.
UNIT I:
DC-DC Switched Mode Converters: Review of Buck Converter, Boost Converter, Buck,
Boost, CUK & SEPIC converter, Duty cycle derivation, Different conduction modes (CCM &
DCM), Voltage and Current waveforms, Calculation of output voltage ripple, Problems.
UNIT II:
Switching DC Power Supplies: Linear power supplies, Overview of switching power supplies,
switching losses, Fly back and Forward Converters. Duty cycle derivation, waveforms,
comparison of converters, Problems
UNIT III:
Control Aspects: Voltage feed- forward PWM control, Current mode control, Power Supply
Protection, Electrical isolation in the feedback loop, Designing to meet Power Supply
Specifications
UNIT IV:
Converter Design (for Buck, Boost, Flyback & Forward Converters only): Selection of output
filter capacitor, Selection of energy storage inductor, Design of High Frequency Inductor and
High frequency Transformer, Selection of switches. Snubber circuit design, Pulse width
modulator circuit, Design of driver circuits, Necessity of EMI filter
UNIT V:
Thermal Model: Thermal Resistance, Selection of Heat sinks, Simple Heat sink calculations
Applications: DC/DC converter as Power Factor Corrector (active shaping of the line current)
Offline Computer Power Supply System, Uninterruptible AC Power Supplies, Space Craft Power
Supply etc
53
Text Books:
1. Mohan N. Undeland . T & Robbins W., Power Electronics Converters, Application and
Design. John Wiley, 3rd edition, 2002
2. Umanand L., Bhat S.R., Design of magnetic components for switched Mode Power
Converters. , Wiley Eastern Ltd.,1992
3. Robert. W. Erickson, D. Maksimovic .Fundamentals of Power Electronics., Springer
International Edition, 2005
4. Course Material on Switched Mode Power Conversion, V. Ramanarayanan.
References:
1. Krein P.T .Elements of Power Electronics., Oxford University Press
2. M.H.Rashid, Power Electronics. Prentice-Hall of India
54
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology Hyderabad
I Year – II sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
Open Elective-II
(PES41) RENEWABLE POWER GENERATION TECHNOLOGIES
Course Objectives:
• To recognize the awareness of energy conservation in students
• To identify the use of renewable energy sources for electrical power generation
• To collect different energy storage methods
• To detect about environmental effects of energy conversion
Course Outcomes:
Upon the completion of the subject, the student will be able to
• Find different renewable energy sources to produce electrical power
• estimate the use of conventional energy sources to produce electrical energy
• role-play the fact that the conventional energy resources are depleted
• arrange Store energy and to avoid the environmental pollution
UNIT I:
Photo Voltaic Power Generation: Photo voltaic power generation ,spectral distribution of
energy in solar radiation, solar cell configurations, voltage developed by solar cell, photo current
and load current, practical solar cell performance, commercial photo voltaic systems, test
specifications for PV systems, applications of super conducting materials in electrical equipment
systems.
UNIT II:
MHD Power Generation and Wind Energy: Principles of MHD power generation, ideal MHD
generator performance, practical MHD generator, MHD technology.
Wind Energy Conversion: Power from wind, properties of air and wind, types of wind
Turbines, operating characteristics.
UNIT III:
Tidal Power and Wave Energy: Tides and tidal power stations, modes of operation, tidal
project examples, turbines and generators for tidal power generation.
Wave Energy Conversion: properties of waves and power content, vertex motion of Waves,
device applications. Types of ocean thermal energy conversion systems Application of OTEC
systems examples,
UNIT IV:
Storage Systems: Energy Storage Parameters – Lead–Acid Batteries – Ultra capacitors –
Flywheels – superconducting Magnetic Storage System – Pumped Hydroelectric Energy Storage
– Compressed Air Energy Storage –Storage Heat –Energy Storage as an Economic Resource
UNIT V:
Fuel Cells: Types of fuel cells, H -O Fuel cells, Application of fuel cells – Batteries,
2 2
Description of batteries, Battery application for large power. Environmental effects of energy
conversion systems, pollution from coal and preventive measures steam stations and pollution,
pollution free energy systems.
55
Text Books:
1. “Energy conversion systems” by Rakosh das Begamudre, New age International publishers,
New Delhi - 2000.
2. “Renewable Energy Resources” by John Twidell and Tony Weir, 2nd Edition, Fspon & Co.
References:
1. “Understanding Renewable Energy Systems” by Volker Quaschning, 2005, UK.
2. “Renewable Energy Systems-Advanced Conversion, Technologies & Applications” by Faner
Lin Luo Honer Ye, CRC press, Taylor & Francies group.
3. Felix A. Farret, M. GodoySimoes,Integration of Alternative Sources of Energy, John Wiley
& Sons, 2006.
4. Remus Teodorescu, Marco Liserre, Pedro Rodríguez,Grid Converters for Photovoltaic and
Wind Power Systems,John Wiley & Sons, 2011.
5. Gilbert M. Masters, Renewable and Efficient Electric Power Systems, John Wiley & Sons
56
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – II Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
Open Elective-II
(PES42) PROGRAMMABLE LOGIC CONTROLLERS AND THEIR APPLICATIONS
Prerequisite: None
Course Objectives:
• It is to provide and ensure a comprehensive understanding of using advanced controllers
in measurement and control instrumentation.
• To illustrate about data acquisition - process of collecting information from field
instruments.
• To analyze Programmable Logic Controller (PLC), IO Modules and internal features.
• To Comprehend Programming in Ladder Logic, addressing of IO.
• To apply PID and its Tunning.
Course Outcomes:
• Describe the main functional units in a PLC and be able to explain how they interact.
• Know different bus types used in automation industries.
• Develop ladder logic programming for simple processes.
UNIT I:
PLC Basics: PLC system, I/O modules and interfacing, CPU processor, programming
equipment, programming formats, construction of PLC ladder diagrams, devices connected to
I/O modules.
UNIT II:
PLC Programming: Input instructions, outputs, operational procedures, programming examples
using contacts and coils. Drill press operation.
Digital logic gates, programming in the Boolean algebra system, conversion examples. Ladder
diagrams for process control: Ladder diagrams & sequence listings, ladder diagram construction
and flow chart for spray process system.
UNIT III:
PLC Registers: Characteristics of Registers, module addressing, holding registers, input
registers, output registers.
PLC Functions: Timer functions & Industrial applications, counters, counter function industrial
applications, Arithmetic functions, Number comparison functions, number conversion functions.
UNIT IV:
Data Handling functions: SKIP, Master control Relay, Jump, Move, FIFO, FAL, ONS, CLR &
Sweep functions and their applications.
Bit Pattern and changing a bit shift register, sequence functions and applications, controlling of
two axis & three axis Robots with PLC, Matrix functions.
UNIT V:
Analog PLC Operation: Analog modules & systems, Analog signal processing, multi bit data
processing, analog output application examples, PID principles, position indicator with PID
control, PID modules, PID tuning, PID functions.
57
Text Books:
1. Programmable Logic Controllers – Principle and Applications by John W. Webb & Ronald
A. Reiss, Fifth Edition, PHI
2. Digital Design by Morris Mano, PHI, 3rd Edition 2006.
References:
1. Programmable logic Controllers, Frank D. Petruzella, 4th Edition, McGraw Hill Publishers.
2. Programmable Logic Controllers – Programming Method and Applications by JR.
Hackworth & F.D Hackworth Jr. – Pearson, 2004.
3. Programmable logic controllers and their Engineering Applications, 2nd Edition, Alan J.
Crispin.
58
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – II Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
Open Elective I
(PSS41) OPTIMIZATION TECHNIQUES
Prerequisite: None
Course Objectives:
• To understand linear programming
• To understand optimization problem statement.
• To understand single variable and multi variable optimization problems with equality and
inequality
constraints
• To understand various optimization techniques.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Formulate mathematical statement of optimization problem
• Understand various methods of optimization techniques
• Understand the concept of genetic algorithm
UNIT I:
Introduction and Classical Optimization Techniques: Statement of an Optimization problem –
design vector – design constraints – constraint surface – objective function – objective function
surfaces – classification of Optimization problems.
Classical Optimization Techniques: Single variable Optimization – multi variable Optimization
without constraints – necessary and sufficient conditions for minimum/maximum – multivariable
Optimization with equality constraints.
Solution by method of Lagrange multipliers – multivariable Optimization with inequality
constraints – Kuhn – Tucker conditions.
UNIT II:
Linear Programming: Standard form of a linear programming problem – geometry of linear
programming problems – definitions and theorems – solution of a system of linear simultaneous
equations – pivotal reduction of a general system of equations – motivation to the simplex
method – simplex algorithm.
Transportation Problem:
Finding initial basic feasible solution by north – west corner rule, least cost method and Vogel’s
approximation method – testing for optimality of balanced transportation problems.
UNIT III:
Unconstrained Nonlinear Programming: One – dimensional minimization methods:
Classification, Fibonacci method and Quadratic interpolation method
Unconstrained Optimization Techniques: Univariate method, Powell’s method and steepest
descent method.
UNIT IV:
Constrained Nonlinear Programming: Characteristics of a constrained problem, Classification,
Basic approach of Penalty Function method; Basic approaches of Interior and Exterior penalty
function methods. Introduction to convex Programming Problem.
59
UNIT V:
Dynamic Programming: Dynamic programming multistage decision processes – types –
concept of sub optimization and the principle of optimality – computational procedure in
dynamic programming – examples illustrating the calculus method of solution - examples
illustrating the tabular method of solution.
Text Books:
1. Engineering optimization: Theory and practice by S. S.Rao, New Age International (P)
Limited, 3rd edition, 1998.
2. Introductory Operations Research by H.S. Kasene and K.D. Kumar, Springer (India), Pvt
.Ltd.
References:
1. Optimization Methods in Operations Research and systems Analysis – by K.V. Mital and C.
Mohan, New Age International (P) Limited, Publishers, 3rd edition, 1996.
2. Operations Research – theory and applications by Dr. S.D.Sharma, Macmillan publishers
India Ltd, 4th edition.
3. Operations Research: An Introduction” by H.A. Taha, PHI Pvt. Ltd, 6th edition.
4. Linear Programming by G. Hadley, A. W. Pub.Company, 1962.
60
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – II Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(PES52) POWER CONVERTERS AND DRIVES LAB
Pre-requisites: All core subjects
Course Objectives:
• Show awareness of the impact of power electronic control circuits on utility supply
• To observe the difference of the conventional and power electronic control of drives.
• Have a better understanding of the close relationship between hardware and simulation
models of actual systems.
• To familiarize the student with various power electronic converter topologies and their
speed
• Control application (open loop and closed loop operation)
Course Outcomes:
Student will be able to
1. Conduct experiments on drives for different modes of operation using different converter
topologies.
2. Select the suitable controller for getting the desired speed performance of drive.
3. Validate the results
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
1. Speed Measurement and closed loop control using PMDC motor.
2. Thyristorised drive for PMDC Motor with speed measurement and closed Loop control.
3. IGBT used single 4 quadrant chopper drive for PMDC motor with speed measurement and
closed loop control.
4. Thyristorised drive for 1Hp DC motor with closed loop control.
5. 3-Phase input, thyristorised drive, 3 Hp DC motor with closed loop
6. 3-Phase input IGBT, 4 quadrant chopper drive for DC motor with closed Loop control
equipment.
7. Cyclo-converter based AC Induction motor control equipment.
8. Speed control of 3 phase wound rotor Induction motor.
9. Single-phase fully controlled converter with inductive load.
10. Single phase half wave controlled converter with inductive load.
11. Isolated Gate Drive circuits for MOSFET / IGBT based circuits.
12. Characteristics of solar PV Systems.
13. Maximum Power Point Tracking Charge Controllers.
14. Inverter control for Solar PV based systems.
Note: Any ten experiments can be conducted.
61
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
I Year – II sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
0 6 4
(PES62) MINI PROJECT-II
Course Objectives:
• To improve the capability of surveying for required literature.
• To inculcate the design ability of electrical systems
• To enhance the skills of fabricating the hardware projects
• To correlate the experimental results with theoretical/designed data.
Course Outcomes:
• Carry out Literature study and give problem statement
• Select Control Strategy, design methodology and develop a suitable model for the chosen
problem
• Execute and validate the Model
• Communicate effectively
• Write a technical report
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
II Year – I Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
0 0 4
(PES63) COMPREHENSIVE VIVA-VOCE
Course Objectives:
• To get a global and overall view on the subject.
• To refresh the technical content at finishing stage of the program.
• To enhance the communication and presentation skills.
Course Outcomes:
• Comprehend the fundamentals and technical knowledge in power electronics and its
allied fields.
• Apply and analyze power electronics concepts in its allied fields
• Communicate effectively
62
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
II Year – I Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
0 0 8
(PES71) INTERNSHIP/DISSERTATION PHASE – I
Course Objectives:
• To improve the capability of surveying for required literature.
• To inculcate the design ability of electrical systems
• To enhance the skills of fabricating the hardware projects
• To correlate the experimental results with theoretical/designed data.
Course Outcomes:
• Carry out Literature study and give problem statement
• Select Control Strategy, design methodology and develop a suitable model for the chosen
problem
• Execute and validate the Model
• Communicate effectively
• Write a technical report
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology, Hyderabad
II Year – II Sem M.Tech (Power Electronics) L T/P/D C
0 0 18
(PES72) DISSERTATION PHASE – II
Course Objectives:
• To improve the capability of surveying for required literature.
• To inculcate the design ability of electrical systems
• To enhance the skills of fabricating the hardware projects
• To correlate the experimental results with theoretical/designed data.
Course Outcomes:
• Carry out Literature study and give problem statement
• Select Control Strategy, design methodology and develop a suitable model for the chosen
problem
• Execute and validate the Model
• Communicate effectively
• Write a technical report
63
