SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/mtechsyl/r15mstructure.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE
AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
M. Tech.
STRUCTURAL ENGINEERING
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2015-16)
VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous Institute, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
NBA Accreditation for CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT B.Tech. Programmes
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi, Affiliated to JNTUH
Recognized as “College with Potential for Excellence” by UGC
Vignana Jyothi Nagar, Pragathi Nagar, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500 090, TS, India.
Telephone No: 040-2304 2758/59/60, Fax: 040-23042761
E-mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
1
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
Academic Regulations - M.Tech. Programme
(Applicable for the batches admitted from the academic year 2015-2016)
1. Introduction
Academic programmes of the institute are governed by rules and regulations as approved by the Academic
Council of the institute.
These academic rules and regulations are effective from the academic year 2015-16, for the students
admitted into two year post graduate programme offered by the college leading to Master of Technology (M.
Tech.) degree in different specializations offered by the departments of Civil Engineering, Electrical and
Electronics Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Computer
Science and Engineering, Information Technology and Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering.
The M.Tech. degree of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad shall be conferred on
students who are admitted to the programme after fulfilling all the requirements for the award of the degree.
1.1 Eligibility for Admissions
Admission to the above program shall be made subject to the eligibility and qualifications prescribed from
time to time. Admissions shall be made on the basis of GATE Rank and merit rank obtained at an Entrance
Test conducted by the TSSCHE or as decided by TSSCHE subject to reservations prescribed by the
university/ State Government from time to time.
2. Programmes of study
The following two year M.Tech. degree programmes of study are offered by the departments at VNR VJIET.
Department Specializations
1. Advanced Manufacturing Systems
ME 2. Automation
3. CAD/CAM
1. Highway Engineering
CE 2. Structural Engineering
3 Geotechnical Engineering
1. Power Electronics
EEE
2. Power Systems
1. Software Engineering
CSE
2. Computer Science and Engineering
1. VLSI System Design
ECE
2. Embedded Systems
EIE Electronics and Instrumentation
IT Computer Networks and Information Security
2
• ‘ENGLISH’ language is used as the medium of instruction in all the above programmes.
3. Attendance requirements
Each academic year shall be divided into two semesters, each of 90 Instructions days, excluding
examination, evaluation, declaration of results etc.
3.1 A student shall be eligible to appear for the semester end examinations in subject if he / she acquire a
minimum of 75% of attendance in that subject.
3.2 Shortage of attendance up to 10% in any subject (i.e., attendance of 65% and above and below 75%)
in a semester may be condoned by the Institute Academic Committee based on the rules prescribed
by the Academic Council of the Institute from time to time.
3.3 A student shall get minimum required attendance in at least three (03) theory subjects in the present
semester to get promoted to the next semester. In order to qualify for the award of the M.Tech. degree, the
student shall complete all the academic requirements of the subjects, as per the course structure.
3.4 Shortage of attendance below 65% shall in NO case be condoned.
3.5 A stipulated fee shall be payable towards condonation of shortage of attendance.
3.6 In case the student secures less than the required attendance in any subject(s), he shall not be permitted to
appear for the semester end examination in that subject(s). He shall re-register for the subject when offered
next.
4. Evaluation
i. The performance of a student in each semester shall be evaluated subject–wise with a maximum of 100
marks for theory and 100 marks for practical subjects. In addition, mini-project and comprehensive
viva-voce shall be evaluated for 100 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects, the distribution shall be 40 marks for mid-term evaluation and 60 marks
for the semester end examination.
❖ Mid-Term Evaluation (40 M):
Mid-term evaluation consists of mid-term examination (30 M) and assignment/objective test/ case
study/course project (10 M).
➢ Mid-term examination (30 M):
• For theory subjects, two mid-term examinations shall be conducted in each semester as per the
academic calendar. Each mid-term examination shall be evaluated for 30 marks.
• Pattern of Mid-term examination:
3 X 10M = 30 M (three internal choice questions one from each UNIT shall be given, the student has to
answer ONE question from each UNIT)
• There shall be TWO mid-term examinations for each subject and the average of two mid-term
examinations shall be considered for calculating final mid-term examination marks in that
subject.
3
➢ Assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project (10 M):
• Two assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project shall be given to the students covering the
syllabus of first mid-term and second mid-term examinations respectively and evaluated for 10 marks
each.
• The first assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project shall be submitted before first mid-term
examination and the second one shall be submitted before second mid-term examination.
• The average of 2 assignments shall be taken as final assignment marks.
iii. For practical subjects, there shall be a continuous evaluation during the semester for 40 marks and 60
marks for semester end examination. Out of the 40 marks, day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be
evaluated for 10 marks, and 15 marks for practical examination and 15 marks for laboratory record.
❖ Semester End Examination (60 M):
(a) Theory Courses
Question paper pattern for semester end examination (60 Marks)
• Paper shall consist of 05 questions of 10 marks each. (05X12M = 60 M)
• There shall be 01 question from each unit with internal choice.
(b) Practical Courses
Each laboratory course shall be evaluated for 60 marks. The semester end examination shall be conducted
by two examiners, one Internal and other external concerned with the subject of the same / other
department / Industry. The evaluation shall be as per the standard format.
4.1. Evaluation of Mini-Project: There shall be two presentations during the first year, one in each semester.
For mini-project 1 and mini-project 2, a student under the supervision of a faculty member, shall collect the
literature on a topic, critically review the literature, carry out the mini-project, submit it to the department in a
report form and shall make an oral presentation before the departmental Project Review Committee (PRC).
The Departmental PRC consists of Head of the Department, supervisor and one senior faculty member of
the department. For each mini-project there shall be only internal evaluation of 100 marks. A student has to
secure a minimum of 50% to be declared successful.
4.2. There shall be a comprehensive viva-voce in II year I semester. The comprehensive viva- Voce shall be
conducted by a committee consisting of Head of the Department and two senior faculty members of the
department. The comprehensive viva-voce is aimed to assess the students’ understanding in various
subjects studied during the M.Tech. programme of study. The comprehensive viva-voce shall be evaluated
for 100 marks by the committee. There are no internal marks for the comprehensive viva-voce. A student
must secure a minimum of 50% to be declared successful.
4.3. A student shall be deemed to have secured the minimum academic requirement in a subject if he secures a
minimum of 40% of marks in the semester end examination and a minimum aggregate of 50% of the total
marks in the semester end examination and mid-term evaluation taken together.
4.4. A student shall be given one chance to re-register, after completion of the course work, for each subject,
provided the internal marks secured by a student are less than 50% and he has failed in the semester end
4
examination. In such a case student may re-register for the subject(s) and secure required minimum
attendance. Attendance in the re-registered subject(s) has to be calculated separately to become eligible to
write the end examination in the re-registered subject(s). Re-registration for the subjects is allowed only if
that particular re-registration subjects are the hindrance for the award of Degree. Re-registration is allowed
in this case provided the student doesn’t have any subject(s) yet to pass other than the re-registration
subjects where the internal marks are less than 50% with prior permission.
4.5. Laboratory examination for M.Tech. courses must be conducted with two examiners, one of them being
laboratory class teacher and second examiner shall be a teacher of same specialization either external or a
teacher from the same department other than the teacher who conducted laboratory classes for that batch.
5. Evaluation of Project / Dissertation Work.
5.1 Registration of Project Work: A student shall be permitted to register for the project work after satisfying
the attendance requirement of all the subjects (theory and practical subjects).
5.2 A Project Review Committee (PRC) shall be constituted with at least four members namely HOD, PG
coordinator of the M.Tech. programme, project supervisor and one senior faculty member of same
specialization.
5.3 After getting permission as per 5.1, a student has to submit, in consultation with the project supervisor, the
title, objective and plan of action of his project work to the Departmental PRC for its approval. Only after
obtaining the approval of PRC, the student can initiate the project work.
5.4 If a student wishes to change his supervisor or topic of the project he can do so with the approval of PRC.
However, the committee shall examine whether the change of topic/supervisor leads to a major change of
his initial plans of project proposal. If so, the date of registration for the project work shall be the date of
change of supervisor or topic as the case may be.
5.5 Internal evaluation of the project shall be on the basis of the seminars (Project reviews) conducted during
the second year by the PRC. A student shall submit draft report in a spiral bound copy form.
5.6 The work on the project shall be initiated in the beginning of the second year and the duration of project is
for two semesters. A student is permitted to submit Project work only after successful completion of theory
and practical course with the approval of PRC not earlier than 240 days from the date of registration of the
project work. For the approval of PRC the student shall submit the draft copy of thesis to the Head of the
Department (Through project supervisor and PG coordinator) and shall make an oral presentation before
the PRC.
The student is eligible to submit project work if he has published at least one paper covering 70% of the
project work and presented his project work in Show and Tell activity.
5.7 After approval of PRC, every student has to submit three copies of the project dissertation certified by the
supervisor to the Department.
5
5.8 The dissertation shall be adjudicated by one examiner selected by the Chief Superintendent. For this, HOD
shall submit a panel of 3/ 5 examiners, who are eminent in that field with the help of the concerned guide.
5.9 If the report of the examiner is not favourable, the student shall revise and resubmit the Dissertation, within
the time frame as prescribed by PRC. If the report of the examiner is unfavourable again, the dissertation
shall be summarily rejected.
5.10 If the report of the examiner is favorable, viva-voce examination shall be conducted by a board consisting of
the project supervisor, Head of the Department and the external examiner who adjudicated the Thesis. The
Board shall jointly report students work as:
A. Excellent
B. Good
C. Satisfactory
D. Unsatisfactory
Head of the Department shall coordinate and make arrangements for the conduct of viva-voce examination.
The student has to secure any one of the grades as Excellent, Good or Satisfactory on his dissertation and
viva-voce. If the report of the viva-voce is unsatisfactory, the student shall retake the viva-voce examination
after three months, making modifications as suggested. If he fails to get a satisfactory report at the second
viva-voce examination, he has to re-register for the project work as mentioned in clause 5.1. However, the
student may select a new guide or new topic or both with the approval of the PRC and submit the project
dissertation with a minimum of 240 days from the date of re-registration. Of course, this shall not prejudice
the clause 6.1 below.
6. Award of Degree and Class
A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the M.Tech. degree, if he pursues a course of study and
complete it successfully for not less than two academic years and not more than four academic years.
6.1 A student, who fails to fulfil all the academic requirements for the award of the degree within four academic
years from the year of his admission, for any reason whatsoever, shall forfeit his seat in M.Tech. Course.
6.2 A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 84 credits and earn 84 credits.
Marks obtained in all 86 credits shall be considered for the calculation of Cumulative Grade Point
Average (CGPA).
6.3 CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points in two year M.Tech. degree programme is as follows:
• Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the total marks obtained in mid-term evaluation and
semester end examinations.
6
• Grades and Grade points are assigned as given below.
Grade Points(GP)
Marks Obtained Grade Description of Grade
Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 B Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 C Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 D Pass 6.00
<50 F Fail
Not Appeared the Exam(s) N Absent
The student is eligible for the award of the M.Tech degree with the class as mentioned in the following table.
CGPA Class
>= 8.0 First Class with Distinction
>= 7.0 and <8.0 First Class
>= 6.0 and < 7.0 Second Class
➢ Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
• The performance of each student at the end of the each semester shall be indicated in terms of SGPA. The
SGPA shall be calculated as below:
Where Ci = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘i’
Gi = Grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to the subject ‘i’
i = 1,2,…..p represent the number of subjects in a particular semester
Note: SGPA is calculated and awarded for the students who pass all the courses in a semester.
7
➢ Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA):
The CGPA of a student for the entire programme shall be calculated as given below:
• Assessment of the overall performance of a student shall be obtained by calculating Cumulative Grade
Point Average (CGPA), which is weighted average of the grade points obtained in all subjects during the
course of study.
Where Cj = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘j’
Gj = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to that subject ‘j’
j = 1,2,….m represent the number of subjects of the entire program.
• Grade lower than D in any subject shall not be considered for CGPA calculation. The CGPA shall be
awarded only when the student acquires the required number of credits prescribed for the program.
➢ Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
7. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to the Institute, or if any case of indiscipline is pending against him, the
result of the student may be withheld and he shall not be allowed into the next higher semester. The award
or issue of the provisional certificate and the degree may also be withheld in such cases. This delay shall
not prejudice clauses Nos.6.0 and 6.1.
8. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or any other academic
requirements, may be considered for readmission as and when they become eligible. They have to take up
Equivalent subjects, as substitute subjects in place of repeated subjects as decided by the Chairman of the
BoS of the respective departments. He/She shall be admitted under the regulation of the batch in which
he/she is readmitted.
9. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each semester shall be 90 instruction days.
8
10. General
10.1 The academic regulations should be read as a whole for purpose of any interpretation.
10.2 In case of any doubt or ambiguity in the interpretation of the above rules, the decision of the Principal is
final.
10.3 The Institute may change or amend the academic regulations and syllabi at any time and the changes and
amendments made shall be applicable to all the students with effect from the date notified by the Institute.
10.4 Wherever the words he, him or his occur, they shall also include she, her and hers.
11. Supplementary Examination
Supplementary examinations shall be conducted along with regular semester end examinations. (During
even semester regular examinations, supplementary examinations of odd Semester and during odd
semester regular examinations, supplementary examinations of even semester shall be conducted).
9
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
An Autonomous Institute
Nizampet (S.O.), Hyderabad – 90
Program Education Objectives (PEOs)
I. To provide proficiency in the basic principles and advanced courses of technology in
Structural Engineering so that students are able to formulate, analyse and solve the
societal problems for sustainable development related to structural Engineering.
II. To expose the students to the latest innovations and trends with a view to inculcate strong
research orientation in structural engineering as well as in multidisciplinary streams.
III. To produce Structural Engineers who integrate and build on the program's core
curricularconcepts in the pursuit of professional leadership, teamwork, life-long learning,
and successful career advancement.
10
Program Outcomes (POs)
The program demonstrates that:
a. Engineering Knowledge: The graduate is capable of applying the core and multi-
disciplinary knowledge for understanding the problems in structural engineering and allied
fields.
b. Problem Analysis:The graduates will possess critical thinking skills, problem solving
abilities, and familiarity with the computational procedures essential to the field.
c. Design & Development of Solutions: The graduate is able to formulate, analyse, design
and execute the construction of various types of Engineering structures with appropriate
consideration for public health and safety and cultural, societal and environmental
conditions.
d. Conduct investigations of complex problems: Use research based knowledge and
research methods to conduct experiments and to analyze and interpret experimental data.
e. Modern Tool Usage: The student gets hands on training on various structural analysis and
project management softwares.
f. The Engineer and Society: Apply reasoning informed by the appropriate knowledge to
assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities
relevant to structural engineering practice.
g. Environment and Sustainability: As the students possess substantial knowledge in multi-
disciplinary areas, one is able to plan the various projects well, keeping in view its
environmental effects on other related fields.
h. Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commitment to professional responsibilities .
i. Individual and Team work: Capable of working productively as individual, as member or
leader in driver set teams and in multi- disciplinary settings.
Communication: The student achieves excellence in expressing his ideas, writing
j.
technical reports with great communication skills and managerial skills.
Project Management and Finance:Graduates will be able to understand the critical issues
k.
in professional practice such as analyzing the critical design problems,
procurement of works and the execution of a project and the financial managerial
capabilities.
Life-Long learning: Student will maintain an awareness of contemporary issues and
l.
recognise the need for and engage in life long learning to update with or develop
technologies to meet the growing and changing needs of society
11
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
M.TECH. (STRUCTURAL ENGINEERING)
(R15 Regulation)
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Code Group Subject L T/P/D Credits
Theory of Elasticity &
STR01 3 1 4
Plasticity
Theory and Analysis of
STR02 Core 3 1 4
Plates
Advanced Reinforced
STR03 3 1 4
Concrete Design
Advanced Concrete
STR11 3 0
Technology
3 0
STR12 Prefabricated Structures
Elective – I
Maintenance &
&
STR13 Rehabilitation of 3 0
Elective -II
structures
3 + 3
Basket Advanced Structural
STR14 3 0
Analysis
Soil Dynamics &
STR15 3 0
Machine Foundations
STR16 Bridge Engineering 3 0
Computer based
MTH31 3 0
Numerical methods
Open Professional & Technical
ENG32 3 0 3
Elective -I Communication
Energy Efficient
STR31 3 0
Buildings
Advanced Concrete
STR51 Lab 0 3 2
Laboratory
STR61 Mini Project - I 0 0 4
Total 18 6 27
12
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
M.TECH. (HIGHWAY ENGINEERING)
(R15 Regulation)
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Code Group Subject L T/P/D Credits
Finite Element
STR04 3 1 4
Methods
STR05 Structural Dynamics 3 1 4
Core
Computer Aided
STR06 Design in Structural 3 1 4
Engineering
Earthquake Resistant
STR21 3 0
Design of Building
Advanced Steel 3 0
STR22
Design
STR23 Elective – III
Composite Materials 3 0
&
Elective – IV
STR24 Prestressed Concrete 3 0 3 + 3
3 0
STR25 Basket Stability of Structures
Analysis & Design of
Shells and Folded 3 0
STR26
Plates
Optimization
STR41 Techniques in 3 0
Engineering
Open Elective Construction
3
HIG41 - II Technology & Project 3 0
Management
Ground-Foundation-
GTE41 3 0
Structure Interaction
Advanced CAD
STR52 Lab 0 3 2
Laboratory
STR62 Mini Project - II 0 0 4
Total 18 6 27
13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
M.TECH. (HIGHWAY ENGINEERING)
(R15 Regulation)
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Code Group Subject L P Credits
STR63 Comprehensive Viva-Voice 0 0 4
STR71 Internship / Dissertation Phase - I 0 0 8
Total 0 0 12
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Code Group Subject L P Credits
STR72 Dissertation Phase - II 0 0 18
Total 0 0 18
14
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(STR01) THEORY OF ELASTICITY & PLASTICITY
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ Define stresses, strains, equilibrium and compatibility
▪ Derive the governing equilibrium equations in Two-dimensional & in three-
dimensional problems
▪ Solve the problems in plane stress, plane strain, torsion, bending.
▪ Apply the concepts of elasticity & Plasticity to solve Structural Engineering problems
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Identify and analyse the stress problems in an elastic body.
▪ Identify and analyse the deformation problems in an elastic body.
▪ Acquire the concepts on theory of elasticity and theory of plasticity.
▪ Solve problems of theory of elasticity.
UNIT I:
Introduction: Elasticity - notation for forces and stress - components of stresses - components of
strain - Hooks law. Plane stress and plane strain analysis - plane stress - plane strain –
differential equations of equilibrium - boundary conditions - compatibility equations - stress
function – boundary condition.
UNIT II:
Two Dimensional Problems in Rectangular Coordinates: Solution by polynomials - Saint-
Venant’s principle-determination of displacements-bending of simple beams: application of
fourier series for two dimensional problems - gravity loading- Two dimensional problems in
polar coordinates - stress distribution symmetrical about an axis - pure bending of curved bars -
strain components in polar coordinates - displacements for symmetrical stress distributions -
simple symmetric and asymmetric problems - general solution of two- dimensional problem in
polar coordinates – application of general solution in polar coordinates.
UNIT III:
Analysis of Stress and Strain in Three Dimensions: Principal stress - stress ellipsoid - director
surface - determination of principal stresses - max shear stresses – homogeneous deformation -
principal axes of strain rotation. General Theorems: Differential equations of equilibrium -
conditions of compatibility - determination of displacement - equations of equilibrium in terms
of displacements - principle of super position - uniqueness of solution - the reciprocal theorem.
15
UNIT IV:
Torsion of Prismatic Bars: Torsion of prismatic bars - bars with elliptical cross sections – other
elementary solution - membrane analogy - torsion of rectangular bars - solution of torsional
problems by energy method - use of soap films in solving torsion problems - hydro dynamical
analogies - torsion of shafts, tubes, bars etc. Bending of Prismatic Bars: Stress function - bending
of cantilever - circular cross section - elliptical cross section - rectangular cross section - bending
problems by soap film method - displacements.
UNIT V:
Theory of Plasticity: Introduction - concepts and assumptions - yield criterions.
Text Books:
1. Theory of Elasticity by S.Timoshenko &J.N.Goodier , McGraw-Hill Publications,3rd
Edition, 2010
2. Theory of Elasticity by Sadhu Singh, Khanna Publishers, 1997
References:
1. Theory of Plasticity by J.Chakarbarthy, McGraw-Hill Ryerson, 2006
2. Applied Elasticity by C.T. Wang, McGraw Hill, 1953.
3. Elasticity - Theory, Applications and Numerics,Martin,H.Sadd, Elsevier, Second
Edition,2011
4. Theory of Plasticity by Sadhu Singh, Dhanpat Rai sons Private Limited, New Delhi, 2004
16
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(STR02) THEORY AND ANALYSIS OF PLATES
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ To understand the classical theory of elastic plates.
▪ To Build the Knowledge on analytical and numerical solution techniques in thin
plate theory.
▪ To Introduce students various theories like Navier, Levy’s, and Rayleigh—Ritz
solutions to plates with different end conditions.
▪ To analyse plates with different boundary conditions
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Apply the theory of plates in engineering designs.
▪ Describe and exploit various modelling avenues for structural engineering
components and obtain the exact and/or approximate solutions.
▪ Select an appropriate plate theory for different Engineering applications.
▪ Formulate differential equations for plate problems
UNIT I:
Cylindrical Bending: Different kind of plates -Assumptions - Derivation of differential equation
for cylindrical bending of long rectangular plates - Analysis of uniformly loaded rectangular
plates with edges simply supported and fixed subjected to uniform load. Pure Bending of Plates:
Slope and curvature of slightly bent plates - Relations between moments and curvature -
Particular cases of pure bending - Strain energy in pure bending – Energy methods like Ritz and
Galerkin Methods to rectangular plates subjected to simple loadings.
UNIT II:
Small Deflection Theory of Thin Rectangular Plates: Assumptions - Derivation of governing
differential equation for thin plates - Boundary conditions - simply supported plate under
sinusoidal load-Navier solution – Application to different cases - Levy's solution for various
boundary conditions subjected to different loadings like uniform and hydrostatic pressure.
UNIT III:
Circular Plates: Symmetrical loading - Relations between slope, deflection, moments and
curvature - Governing differential equation - Uniformly loaded plates with clamped and simply
supported edges - Central hole - bending by moments and shearing forces uniformly distributed
Orthotropic Plates: Introduction - Bending of anisotropic plates - Derivation of governing
differential equation - Determination of Rigidities in various cases like R.C. slabs, corrugated
sheet –Application to the theory of grid works.
17
UNIT IV:
Plates on Elastic Foundations: Governing differential equation-deflection of uniformly loaded
simply supported rectangular plate - Navier and Levy type solutions - Large plate loaded at
equidistant points by concentrated forces.
UNIT V:
Buckling of Plates: Governing equation for Bending of plate under the combined action of in-
plane loading and lateral loads - Buckling of rectangular plates by compressive forces acting in
one and two directions in the middle plane of plate.
Text Books:
1. Theory of Plates and Shells by Timoshenko and Krieger, Tata McGraw-Hill Edition,2nd
Edition,2010.
2. Theory of Plates by K.Chandrasekhara, University Press,2001.
References:
1. Plate Analysis by N. K. Bairagi, Khanna Publishers,New Delhi,2000.
2. Thin plates and shells by Eduard Venstel and Theodor Krauthammer, Marcel dekker Inc
publishers , Newyork, 2001.
3. Theory and Analysis of Plates by R. Szilard, Prentice Hall Inc publishers, 2000.
4. Stress in Plates and Shells,A.C. Ugural, McGraw-Hill,2ndEdition, 1999.
18
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(STR03) ADVANCED REINFORCED CONCRETE DESIGN
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ Analyze and Design of slabs by using yield line theory.
▪ Understand the various types of loads in current codes of practice for the design of
tall buildings.
▪ Understand the Design concepts of flat slabs.
▪ Analyze and Design of Concrete Deep beams and retaining walls.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Determine moment of resistance for square and circular slabs.
▪ Analyze and design of flat slabs
▪ Design of Concrete Deep beams and Retaining walls
▪ Understand the various types of loads to consider in the design of tall buildings.
UNIT I:
Review of Limit State Design Concepts:
Limit Sate Analysis of R.C. Structures: Rotation of a plastic hinge, Redistribution of moments,
moment rotation characteristics of RC member, I.S. code provisions, and applications for fixed
and continuous beam. Yield line analysis for slabs: upper bound and lower bound theorems –
yield line criterion - Virtual work and equilibrium methods of analysis - For square and circular
slabs with simple and continuous end conditions.
UNIT II:
Design of Ribbed slabs, Flat slabs: Analysis of the Slabs for Moment and Shears Ultimate
moment of resistance, Design for shear, Deflection, Arrangement of Reinforcements.
Flat slabs: Direct design method - Distribution of moments in column strips and middle strip-
moment and shear transfer from slabs to columns - Shear in Flat slabs-Check for one way shear-
Introduction to Equivalent frame method. Limitations of Direct design method, Distribution of
moments in column strips and middle strip.
UNIT III:
Design of Reinforced Concrete Deep Beams: steps of Designing Deep Beams, Design by IS
456, Checking for Local Failures, Detailing of Deep Beams.
UNIT IV:
Introduction to Tall buildings: The Tall Building in the Urban Context - The Tall Building and
its Support Structure - Development of High Rise-Building Structures - General Planning
Considerations. Dead Loads - Live Loads-Construction Loads -Snow, and Wind Loads-Seismic
Loading.
19
UNIT V:
Retaining Walls: Analysis and design of cantilever retaining walls- *Counterfort retaining wall
Note :* No numerical problem
Text Books:
1. Reinforced concrete design by s. unnikrishna Pillai & Menon, TMH.
2. Advanced Reinforced Concrete Design - PC Varghese, Practice Hall, 2008
References:
1. Limit state theory and design of reinforced concrete by Dr. S.R.Karve and Dr V L Shah,
Standard publishers, Pune, 3rd Edition 1994
2. Reinforced concrete structures, Vol.l, by B.C.Punmia, Ashok Kumar Jain and Arun Kumar
Jain, Laxmi Publications, 2004.
20
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
Elective-I / Elective-II 3 0 3
(STR11) ADVANCED CONCRETE TECHNOLOGY
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ Adopt the correct type of cement to suit the particular requirements depending
on exposure conditions.
▪ Design economic concrete mix proportion for the given exposure conditions and
with the available materials, to the extent possible for the desired strength.
▪ Address various problems that arise during concreting operations.
▪ Judge and resolve any controversy that arises regarding material suitability
confidently by substantiating through field and laboratory tests.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Determine the properties of concrete ingredients i.e. cement, sand, coarse
aggregate by conducting different tests and decide the suitability.
▪ Recognize the effects of the rheology and early age properties of concrete on its
long-term behavior.
▪ Use appropriate chemical admixtures and mineral additives for achieving the
desired properties.
▪ Use advanced laboratory techniques to assess the strength characteristics after
disasters.
UNIT I:
Concrete Making Materials: Cement – Bogue’s compounds –Hydration process - Types of
cement –Aggregates-Gradation curves-Combined aggregates-Alkali silica reaction–Admixtures-
mineral and chemical admixtures .
UNIT II:
Fresh and Hardened Concrete: Fresh concrete-workability tests on concrete–setting times of
fresh concrete- segregation and bleeding.
Hardened Concrete: Abram's law – Gel- space ratio - maturity concept –stress strain behavior-
creep and shrinkage-durability of concrete-Non-destructive testing of concrete. Introduction to
XRD & SEM Analysis.
UNIT III:
High Strength Concrete: Microstructure-manufacturing and properties--ultra high strength
concrete.
High performance concrete- Requirements and properties of high performance concrete-design
considerations.
21
UNIT IV
Special Concretes: Light weight concrete-Self Compacting concrete-Polymer concrete -Fiber
reinforced concrete –Reactive powder concrete-Bacterial concrete-Geo-polymer concrete –
Requirements and guidelines- Advantages and Applications – Porous pavement – White Topping
– Roller compacted concrete.
UNIT V:
Concrete Mix Design: Quality control –Quality assurance-Quality audit-Mix design by various
methods-BIS method-DOE method-ACI method - Erntroy & Shacklock’s method .
Text Books:
1. Concrete Technology by M.L.Gambhir, McGraw Hill Education(India) Pvt. Ltd,5th edition
2. Concrete Technology by M.S.Shetty, S.Chand & Co.
References:
1. Concrete technology by A.M.Neville& J J Brooks,Low price edition 2004, Pearson
Education
2. Concrete –Microstructure, properties and materials by P.Kumar Mehta & Paulo
J.M.Monteiro- 3rd edition published by Tata Mc Graw Hill Education Pvt.Ltd.
3. Properties of concrete by A.M.Neville, Pearson publishers,
4. Design of Concrete Mixes by N.Krishna Raju, CBS Publications.
22
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
Elective-I / Elective-II 3 0 3
(STR12) PREFABRICATED STRUCTURES
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ To impart the knowledge in the area of prefabricated structures.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Know the types of prefabrication systems.
▪ Understand the behavior of prefabricated structures.
▪ Design pre fabricated units.
▪ Do the detailing of pre fabricated units.
UNIT I:
Introduction: Types of foundation - Modular co-ordination – Components - Prefabrication systems
and structural schemes - Design considerations - Economy of prefabrication - Prefabrication of load-
carrying members - Disuniting of structures - Structural behavior of pre cast structures.
UNIT II:
Handling and Erection: Stresses - Application of pre stressing of roof members – Floor systems -
Two way load bearing slabs - Wall panels.
UNIT III:
Dimensioning and Detailing of Joints : Joints for different structural connections – Construction
and expansion joints.
UNIT IV:
Erection of Prefabricated Structures : Production - Transportation and Erection - Organising of
production - Storing and erection equipment - Shuttering and mould design - Dimensional tolerances,
Erection of R.C.structures, Total prefabricated buildings.
UNIT V:
Design of Prefabricated Units: Prefabricated units for Industrial structures, Multi-storied buildings
and Water tanks etc., Application of pre-stressed concrete in prefabrication.
Text Books:
1. Hass, A.M., (1995) Precast concrete Design and Applications, Applied Science Publishers,
England.
2. Promyslov, V. (1998), Design and Erection of Reinforced concrete structures, MIR Publishers,
Moscow.
23
References:
1. Levit, M., (2000), Precast concrete materials, Manufacture properties and usage, Applied Science
Publishers, London.
24
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
Elective-I / Elective-II 3 0 3
(STR13 ) MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION OF STRUCTURES
Course Prerequisites: Concrete Technology
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ This subject imparts a broad knowledge in the area of repair and rehabilitation of
structures.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Understand the properties of fresh and hardened concrete.
▪ Know the strategies of maintenance and repair.
▪ Get an idea of repair techniques.
▪ Understand the properties of repair materials.
UNIT I:
Serviceability and Durability of Structures: Quality Assurance for concrete construction -
Fresh concrete properties – Strength – Permeability - Cracking - Effects due to climate–
Temperature – chemicals - Wear and erosion - Design and construction errors - Corrosion
mechanism - Effects of cover thickness and cracking - Methods of corrosion protection –
Inhibitors - Resistant steels – Coatings - Cathodic protection
UNIT II:
Diagnosis and Assessment of Distress: Visual inspection – Non destructive tests – Ultrasonic
pulse velocity method – Rebound hammer technique – ASTM classifications – Pullout tests –
Core test
UNIT III:
Materials for Repair: Special concretes and mortar - Concrete chemicals – Special elements for
accelerated strength gain - Expansive cement - Polymer concrete – Ferro cement, Fibre
reinforced concrete - Fibre reinforced plastics.
UNIT IV:
Techniques for Repair: Rust eliminators and polymers coatings for rebars during repair
Foamed concrete - Mortar and dry pack - Vacuum concrete - Gunite and shotcrete -Epoxy
injection - Mortar repair for cracks - Shoring and underpinning.
UNIT V:
Repairs to Structures: Repairs to overcome low member strength –Deflection – Cracking -
Chemical disruption - Weathering wear - Fire leakage – Marine exposure.
25
Text Books:
1. Concrete Technology by Santha Kumar, A.R., , Oxford University Press, 2007
2. Concrete Technology Theory and Practice by Shetty, M.S. , S.Chand and company, New
Delhi, 2005
References:
1. Concrete Chemical Theory and Applications , Santha Kumar, A.R., Indian Society for
Construction Engineering and Technology, 1996
2. Structural assessment by Garas, F.K,.Clarke, J.L, Armer, GST, Butterworths, UK, 1997
3. Repair of Concrete Structures by R.T. Allen and S.C.Edwards, Blakie and Sons, UK, 1998
26
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
Elective-I / Elective-II 3 0 3
(STR14) ADVANCED STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ Learn how to calculate static and kinematic indeterminacies of various types of
structures.
▪ Formulate the stiffness matrix for continuous beams, portal frames and trusses.
▪ Formulate the flexibility matrix for continuous beams, portal frames and trusses.
▪ Understand the structural behavior of frames with and without shear walls.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Generate the global stiffness matrix by assembling the element stiffness matrices.
▪ Analyze the continuous beams, portal frames and trusses by stiffness method.
▪ Solve the continuous beams, portal frames and trusses by flexibility method.
▪ Analyze the shear walls by approximate methods.
UNIT I:
Introduction to matrix methods of analysis – static indeterminacy and kinematic indeterminacy -
degree of freedom - coordinate system - structure idealization - stiffness and flexibility matrices -
suitability element stiffness equations - element flexibility equations - mixed force –
displacement equations for truss element, beam element and torsional element. Transformation
of coordinates - element stiffness matrix - load vector - local and global coordinates.
UNIT II:
Assembly of global stiffness matrix from element stiffness matrices - direct stiffness method -
general procedure - band matrix - semi bandwidth - computer algorithm for assembly by direct
stiffness matrix method.
UNIT III:
Analysis of plane truss - continuous beam - plane frame and grids by flexibility method.
UNIT IV:
Analysis of plane truss - continuous beam - plane frame and grids by stiffness method.
UNIT V:
A special analysis procedure - static condensation and sub structuring - initial and thermal
stresses.
Shear walls- Necessity - structural behaviour of large frames with and without shear walls –
Approximate methods of analysis of shear walls.
27
Text Books:
1. Structural Analysis : A Matrix Approach by G.S.Pandit, S.P.Gupta, Tata McGraw-Hill
Publishers, 2nd Edition.
2. Matrix Analysis of Framed structures by William weaver, James M. Gere, CBS publications,
2nd Edition.
References:
1. Theory of Structures – Vol. II by S.P.Gupta, G.S. Pandit, R.Gupta, Tata McGraw-Hill
Publishers, Ist Edition.
2. Structural Analysis by Devdas Menon, Narosa Publishers, 2008.
3. Structural Analysis by A.Ghali, A.M. Neville and T.G. Brown, Spon Press, 6th Edition, 2009.
4. Matrix methods of Structural Analysis by M.B. Kanchi, New age International Publishers.
28
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. L T/P/D C
Elective-I / Elective-II 3 0 3
(STR15) SOIL DYNAMICS & MACHINE FOUNDATIONS
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ Use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering
practice.
▪ Understand the impact of engineering solutions in economic and environmental context.
▪ Design, analyze and interpret data related to the geotechnical engineering.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Accentuate the understanding of the basic principles and exposes the student to the latest
developments, with a strong research orientation.
▪ Identify, formulate and solve foundation related problems.
▪ Understand the latest trends, modern standards and state-of-the-art techniques for
geotechnical engineering.
UNIT I:
Types of machine foundations - general requirements design - criteria for machine foundations,
permissible amplitudes and bearing pressure. Resonance and its effect - free and forced
Vibrations with and without damping - constant force and rotating mass type excitation -
magnification steady state vibrations - logarithmic decrement.
UNIT II:
Natural frequency of foundation - soil system - Barkan's and I.S. methods of determining natural
frequency.
UNIT III:
Elastic properties of soil for dynamical purpose and their experimental determination - Elastic
waves and their characteristics -'Experimental determination of shear modulus from wave theory.
UNIT IV:
Apparent soil mass - bulb of pressure concept - Pauw's analogy of foundation - soil systems
(concept only) - Theory of elastic half space - lamb and the dynamic Boussinesq's problem -
Relsner's solution and its limitations - Quinlan and Sung's modifications - Hsiegh's equations for
vertical vibration.
UNIT V:
Principles of design of foundations for reciprocating and impact type of machine - as per I.S.
Codes. Vibration isolation - types and methods of isolation - isolating materials and their
properties.
29
Text Books:
1. Hand Book of Machine Foundations by S. Srinivasulu and Vaidganathan.
2. Soil Mechanics & Foundation Engineering by B.C.Punmia.
References:
1. Analysis and Design of Foundation and retaining structures-Sham Sher Prakets, Etal.
2. Vibration of Soils & Foundations - Richant Hall & Woods.
30
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
Elective-I / Elective-II 3 0 3
(STR16) BRIDGE ENGINEERING
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ Develop an understanding of and appreciation for basic concepts in proportioning and
design of bridges in terms of aesthetics, geographical location and functionality
▪ Develop a clear understanding of conceptual design of bridge elements
▪ Understand the load flow mechanism and identify loads on bridges
▪ Carry out the design of bridge starting from conceptual design, selecting suitable bridge,
geometry to sizing of its elements
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Understand the various of loads in design of bridges
▪ Analyze and design of solid slab bridges
▪ Analyze and Design of Prestressed Concrete bridges
▪ Understand the Design methods of girder bridges.
UNIT I:
Concrete Bridges: Introduction-Types of Bridges-Economic span length-Types of loading-Dead
load live load- Impact Effect-Centrifugal force-wind loads-Lateral loads-Longitudinal forces-
Seismic loads-Frictional resistance of expansion bearings-Secondary Stresses-Temperature
Effect-Erection Forces and effects-Width of road way and footway-General Design
Requirements.
UNIT II:
Solid slab Bridges: Introduction-Method of Analysis and Design.
UNIT III:
Girder Bridges:-Introduction-Method of Analysis and Design- Courbon's Theory Grillage
analogy
UNIT IV:
Pre-Stressed Concrete Bridges: Basic principles-General Design requirements-Mild steel
reinforcement in pre stessed concrete member-Concrete cover and spacing of pre-stressing steel
slender beams-composite section-propped-Design of propped composite section- Unproped
composite section-Two-stage Prestressing-Shrinking stresses-General Design requirements for
Road Bridges.
31
UNIT V:
Analysis of Bridge Decks: Harmonic analysis and folded plate theory-Grillage analogy- Finite
strip method and FEM. Sub-structure of bridges: Substructure- Beds block-Piers- Pier
Dimensions- Design loads for piers- Abutments- Design loads for Abutments.
Text Books:
1. Design of Bridges by N.Krishna Raju, Oxford and IBH Publishing company,2010
2. Essentials of Bridge Engineering by D. John Victor, Oxford & IBH Publishing Co. Pvt. Ltd.
References:
1. Design of concrete Bridges by M.G.Aswani, V.N.Vazirani and M.M.Ratwani, Khanna
Publishers, 1972
2. Design of Bridge Structures by TR Jagdeesh and MA Jayaram, 2nd Edition, Prentice Hall of
ndia Pvt. Ltd.,2003.
32
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
Open Elective-I 3 0 3
(MTH31) COMPUTER BASED NUMERICAL METHODS
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ Apply the basic knowledge of mathematics in engineering.
▪ Provide a formidable base for analysis and programming using computer
applications.
▪ Develop the ability in programming and solutions based on the various analysis tools.
sCourse Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Apply it to basic (linear) ordinary and partial differential equations.
▪ Identify mathematical model for solution of common engineering problems.
▪ Formulate simple problems into programming models.
UNIT I:
Solution of Algebraic and Transcendental Equations: Introduction, errors and
approximations, binary and decimal systems, computing roots using direct methods (bisection,
regulafalsi) and Iterative Methods (fixed point iterative and Newton-Raphson Methods) and
applications
Lab: Implementation of algorithms on computers using any computer language and comparison
(Bisection and N-R Method)
UNIT II:
Solution of Simultaneous Linear Equations: Introduction, Methods of solution direct (Matrix
inversion and Gauss elimination methods) and iterative methods (Gauss Jacobi and Gauss seidel
methods) disadvantages of ill-conditioned systems and pivoting, Eigen value, computing largest
Eigen value by power method and applications
Lab: Implementation of algorithms on computers and comparison
UNIT III:
Interpolation, Numerical Differentiation and Integration: Introduction, Interpolation for
equally spaced data and unequally spaced data by Newton’s methods, Lagrange’s method and
cubic splices.Numerical differentiation formulae using finite differences and
interpolation.Newton-Cotes integration formulae (Trapezoidal and Simpsons rules) and Gauss
quadrature formulae and applications.
Lab: Implementation of algorithms on computer (Newton’s formula, Trapezoidal and Simpsons
rule)
33
UNIT IV:
Numerical Solutions of Differential Equations (ODE & PDE): Introduction, solution of ODE
of IVP type by Euler’s methods, Runge-Kutta methods (single step) and multistep methods.
Numerical solution of PDE using finite difference schemes approach, (Parabolic, Elliptic type)
and applications
Lab: Implementation of R-K method (for ODE) Bender Schmidt and Crank- Nicolson methods
(for PDE)
UNIT V:
Linear Programming Problems (LPP): Introduction, formation of LPP, methods of solution.
Graphical method, simplex methods, dual simplex method, artificial variables, Big-on method,
Transportation problems (by VAM) and applications.
Lab: Implementation of Simplex algorithm
Text Books:
1. Numerical Methods by Dr.B.S.Grewal
2. Numerical Analysis by R.L.Burden & J.D.Faires
References:
1. Numerical Methods for Engineers byChopras S.C and Canale R.P
2. Numerical Methods for scientists and Engineers byIyenger& Jain
34
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
Open Elective-I 3 0 3
(ENG32) PROFESSIONAL AND TECHNICAL COMMUNICATION
Introduction:
This course aims to offer students a practical approach to professional and technical
communication; and to focus specifically on verbal and written communication. Additionally,
the course is designed to build confidence and; group communication and public speaking
competence. Each unit in the syllabus is devised so as to include a writing component as well as
an oral component.
Course Objectives:
• To enable the students to write without errors in spelling, mechanics, grammar and
punctuation; resume, business letters, proposals and reports to accomplish academic as
well as professional goals.
• To train students to write clearly, cohesively, emphatically and concisely.
• To groom students to speak accurately and fluently and prepare them for real world
activities
• To train students in soft skills through group discussion to improve their EQ.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• analyze communication situations and audiences to make choices about the most
effective and efficient way to communicate and deliver messages
• write resume, business letters, project proposals and reports
• speak fluently and address a large group of audience and participate in discussions.
• navigate through complex environments through interpersonal and collaborative skills.
UNIT I:
• Oral Communication :Self-introduction
• Applications and Covering letters
• Resume Writing
• Job Interviews
UNIT II:
• Oral Communication: Impromptu Speech
• Reading Business and Technical Texts
• Writing E-mails
• Writing Business Letters and Business Memos
UNIT III:
• Oral Communication: Group Discussions
• Summarizing and Synthesising
35
• Writing Abstracts
UNIT IV:
• Oral Communication : Debate
• Writing Business Proposals
• Writing Technical Proposals
UNIT V
• Oral Communication: Making Presentations
• Interpreting Graphic Information
• Writing Business Reports
• Writing Technical Reports
Text Books and Materials:
1. Ashraf Rizvi, M (2005). Effective Technical Communication, Tata Mc Graw Hill Publishing
Company Limited, New Delhi.
2. M. Raman and S. Sharma, Technical Communication: Principles and Practices, OUP, 2004.
(Indian Edition)
References:
1. William S. Pfeiffer, (2012) Technical Communication: A Practical Approach (7th ed.)
Longman
2. Burnett, Rebecca. Technical Communication. 5th Ed., Heinle, 2001.
3. Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson : Technical Writing Process and Product. 3rd edition,
New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
4. Markel, Mike. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies (8th EDITION (2006-
2007)
5. R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan, Business Correspondence and Report Writing, Third Edition,
TMH, 2002. (Indian Edition)
6. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical Communication: A
Reader-Centered Approach ( 5th ed..) (pp. 457-473). Boston: Heinle.
36
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
Open Elective - I 3 0 3
(STR31) ENERGY EFFICIENT BUILDINGS
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ Study the design of energy efficient buildings which balances all aspects of energy,
lighting, space conditioning and ventilation.
▪ Learn passive solar design strategies.
▪ understand the use of materials with low embodied energy.
▪ Design the standards for ventilation and different climatic zones
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Design energy efficient buildings which balance all aspects of energy, lighting, space
conditioning and ventilation.
▪ Design energy efficient buildings with passive solar design strategies.
▪ Use materials with low embodied energy.
▪ Apply concepts in Energy auditing
UNIT I:
Introduction: Energy required for building construction - Heat Transfer – Measuring
Conduction –Thermal Storage – Measurement of Radiation – The Green house Effect –
Psychrometry Chart – Measuring latent and sensible heat. Thermal Comfort – Site Planning and
Development – Temperature – Humidity – Wind – Optimum Site Locations – Sun Protection –
Types of Shading Devices – Conservation – Heating and Cooling loads.
UNIT II:
Passive Solar Heating and Cooling: General Principles of passive Solar Heating – Key Design
Elements - Direct gain Trombe Walls, Water Walls, Convective Air loops – Concepts – Case
Studies – General Principles of Passive Cooling – Ventilation – Predicting ventilation in
buildings – window ventilation calculations - Radiation – Evaporation and dehumidification –
Mass Effect – Load Control – Air Filtration and odor removal – Heat Recovery in large buildings
UNIT III:
Daylighting and Electrical Lighting: Materials, components and details - Insulation – Optical
materials – Radiant Barriers Glazing materials - Day lighting – Sources and concepts – Building
Design Strategies –Case Studies – Electric Lighting –Light Distribution – Electric Lighting
control for day lighted buildings – Illumination requirement – Components of Daylight factor –
Recommended Daylight factors – Day lighting analysis – Supplementary Artificial Lighting
Design
37
UNIT IV:
Heat Control and Ventilation: Requirements – Heat transmission through building sections –
Thermal performance of Building sections – Orientation of buildings – Building characteristics
for various climates – Thermal Design of buildings Influence of Design Parameters –
Mechanical controls –Examples. Ventilation – Requirements – Minimum standards for
ventilation – Ventilation Design – Energy Conservation in Ventilating systems – Design for
Natural Ventilation.
UNIT V:
Design for Climatic Zones: Energy efficiency – an overview of design concepts and
architectural interventions –Energy efficient buildings for various zones – cold and cloudy – cold
and sunny –composite – hot and dry – moderate – warm and humid – case studies of residences,
office buildings and other buildings in each zones – Energy Audit – Certification
Text Books:
1. Energy – efficient Buildings in India by Majumdar, M. (Ed), Tata Energy Research Institute,
Ministry of Non Conventional Energy Sources, 2002.
2. Handbook on energy audits and management Tata Energy Research by Tyagi, A. K.(Ed),
References:
1. Environmental Control System by Moore, F., McGraw Hill Inc., 2002
2. Sun, Wind and Light – Architectural Design Strategies by Brown, G.Z. and DeKay, M.,
John Wiley and Sons Inc, 2001
3. Energy Conservation in Commercial and Residential Buildings by Chilogioji, M.H., and
Oura, E.N., Marcel Dekker Inc., New York and Basel, 1995.
4. Energy Conservation Standards – For Building Design, Construction and Operation by
Dubin, F.S. and Long, C.G., McGraw Hill Book Company ,1990.
38
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(STR51) ADVANCED CONCRETE LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ Characterize the engineering properties of the raw materials for suitability for use and
the required design parameters.
▪ Recognize the effects of the rheology and early age properties of concrete and their
influence on the properties of hardened concrete.
▪ Adopt various chemical admixtures and mineral additives to concrete to achieve the
desired quality of the concrete and necessary modifications in the design of Concrete
Mix.
▪ Understand the fresh and hardened properties of SCC and other special concretes.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Specify concrete and the materials from which it is made
▪ Identify, describe and carry out the main laboratory tests relevant to the use of concrete
on site
▪ Describe the materials used to make concrete; including their sources, production and
properties.
▪ Design SCC concrete mixes
1. Tests on Cement –
a. Specific Gravity of Cement.
b. Standard Consistency of Cement.
c. Setting time of Cement.
d. Soundness of Cement.
e. Compressive Strength of Cement.
2. Tests on Aggregate –
a. Bulking of Fine Aggregate.
b. Specific Gravity of Fine & Coarse Aggregates.
3. IS Method of Mix Design for Normal Concrete.
4. Workability Tests on Normal concrete -
a. Slump Cone Test.
b. Compaction Factor Test.
c. Vee-Bee Consistometer Test.
5. Mix Design of Self Compacting Concrete (SCC).
6. Tests on Fresh Properties of SCC -
a. Flow Table Test.
b. V-Funnel Test.
39
c. T Test.
5
d. J-Ring Test.
e. L-Box Test.
7. Compressive strength of Concrete.
8. Flexure Testing of Beams.
9. Non Destructive Testing of Concrete –
a. Rebound Hammer Test
b. Ultrasonic Pulse Velocity Test
10. Determination of Poisson’s ratio of concrete using UPV apparatus
11. Study of stress-strain behavior & determination of Modulus of Elasticity (Static &
Dynamic) of concrete.
40
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
L T/P/D C
I Year- I Sem. M.Tech (Structural Engineering)
0 0 4
(STR61) MINI PROJECT – I
A mini project work shall be carried out on any topic of Structural Engineering and a
seminar should be given on the same along with a brief report.
41
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(STR04) FINITE ELEMENT METHODS
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ Develop the skills in applying the basic matrix operation to form a globalmatrix equation
and enforce the concept of steps in obtaining solutions for structural mechanics problems.
▪ Applytheskills in solving the bar, beam, Plane stress and Plane strain problems.
▪ Gain some knowledge and analysis skills in forming basicdata required in a FEM
computer program.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Analyze finite element method efficiently in order to solve field problems.
▪ Identifythe most appropriate mathematical model for solution of common Engineering
problems.
▪ Select the suitable finite element and solve the problem having complicated geometry
and loadings using the software.
UNIT I:
Introduction: concepts of FEM - steps involved - merits and demerits - Energy principles-
discretization - Raleigh - Ritz method of functional approximation Principles of
Elasticity:Stressequations-strain-displacement relationship in matrix form, plane stress & plane
strain and axisymmetric bodies of revolution with axi-symmetric loading.
UNIT II:
One Dimensional FEM: Stiffness matrix for beam and bar elements - shape functions for 1D
element.
Two Dimensional FEM: Different types of elements for plane stress and plane strain analysis -
displacement models –generalized coordinates - shape functions - convergence and compatibility
requirements – geometric Invariance - natural coordinate system - area and volume coordinates –
Generation of element stiffness and nodal load matrices.
UNIT III:
Isoparametric Formulation: concept – different isoperimetric elements for2D analysis-
formulation of 4-noded and 8-noded isoparametric quadrilateral elements - Lagrange elements -
serendipity elements Axi symmetric Analysis: bodies of revolution axi symmetric modeling -
strain displacement relationship - formulation of axi symmetric elements.
Three Dimensional FEM: Different 3-D elements-strain-displacement relationship -
formulation of hexahedral and isoparametric solid element.
42
UNIT IV:
Introduction to Finite Element Analysis of Plates: basic theory of plate bending - thin plate
theory - stress resultants - Mindlins approximations - formulation of 4-noded isoperimetric
quadrilateral plate element - Shell Element.
UNIT V:
Introduction to Non - Linear Analysis - basic methods - application to special structures.
Text Books:
1. A First course in Finite element method by Daryl Logan, Third edition, Thomson Asia
publishers, 2002.
2. Finite element analysis by S.S.Bhavikatti, Third edition, New Age International Publishers,
2015.
References:
1. Introduction to Finite elements in Engineering by Tirupathi R.Chandra Patla and Ashok D.
Belegundu, Prentice hall of India, 1996.
2. Fundamentals of Finite Element Analysis by David V. Hutton, TATA McGraw-Hill Edition
2005.
3. Concepts and Applications of Finite Element Analysis by Robert D. Cook, David S.Malkus
and Michael E. Plesha, John Wiley & Sons,1999.
4. Finite Element Analysis by C.S.Krishnamoorthy, Tata McGraw Hill Publishing Co. Ltd,
2002.
43
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(STR05) STRUCTURAL DYNAMICS
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ Know the fundamental concepts and theory of dynamic analysis.
▪ Understand the free vibrations concepts and the problem of determining the natural
frequency of a system.
▪ Understand the free vibrations concepts of harmonically excited vibrations.
▪ Understand the free Vibrations of Multi -degree of freedom.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Apply the fundamental concepts and definitions used in structural dynamics.
▪ Calculate the natural frequency of a system using equilibrium or energy methods.
▪ Determine the effect of viscous damping on the response of a freely vibrating system.
▪ Determine the response of a system to a harmonic excitation.
UNIT I:
Theory of Vibrations: Introduction - Elements of vibratory system - Degrees of Freedom –
continuous it;6 - Lumped mass idealization - oscillatory motion - Simple Harmonic motion –
Vectorial representation of S.H.M. – Formulation of single degree of freedom system -
undamped and damped motions - critical damping - Logarithmic decrement - Forced vibration of
SDOF systems - Harmonic excitation -Dynamic magnification factor- Phase angle – Bandwidth
UNIT II:
Introduction to Structural Dynamics: Fundamental objectives of dynamic analysis -Types of
prescribed loading – Method of discretization - Formulation of equations of motion by different
methods - Direct equilibration using Newton's law of motion / D’ Alembert's principle of virtual
work and Hamilton Principle Single Degree of Freedom systems : Formulation and solution of
the equation of motion – Free vibration response - Response to Harmonic, Periodic, Impulsive
and general dynamic loadings - Duhamel integral.
UNIT III:
Multi Degree of Freedom Systems: Selection of the degrees of Freedom - Evaluation of
structural property matrices- formulation of the MDOF equations of motion -Undamped free
vibrations – Solutions of Eigen value problem for natural frequencies and mode shapes -
Analysis of Dynamic response - Normal co-ordinates - uncoupled equations of motion
Orthogonal properties of normal modes - Mode super position procedure.
44
UNIT IV:
Practical Vibration Analysis: Introduction - stadola method - Fundamental mode analysis–
Analysis of second and higher modes - Holzer method.
UNIT V:
Continuous Systems: Introduction - Flexural vibrations of beams - Elementary case - Derivation
of governing differential equation or motion -Analysis of undamped free vibrations of beams in
flexure- natural frequencies and mode-shapes of simple beams with different end conditions-
Principles of application to continuous beams.
Text Books:
1. Dynamics of Structures by Clough &Penzien, Mc Graw Hill New York
2. Structural Dynamics by Mario Paz, CBS Publishers New Delhi,
References:
1. Dynamics of Structures by Anil K. Chopra, Pearson Education (Singapore),
45
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(STR06) COMPUTER AIDED DESIGN IN STRUCTURAL ENGINEERING
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ Understand computer hardware, software requirements, design process and
graphics
▪ Formulate stiffness matrix for beams and frames
▪ Explain fundamentals of FEA.
▪ Understand design optimization and expert systems.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Explain design process
▪ Formulate stiffness matrix for beams and frames
▪ Apply fundamentals of FEA for solving structural analysis problems
▪ Perform design optimization and understand Knowledge based expert systems.
UNIT I:
Introduction: Fundamentals of CAD - Hardware and software requirements - Design process -
Applications and benefits - Graphic primitives - Transformations -Wire frame modeling and
solid modeling -Graphic standards –Drafting packages.
UNIT II:
Structural Analysis: Structural analysis –stiffness matrix method; Application to beams and
frames
UNIT III:
Finite Element Analysis: Fundamentals of finite element analysis – Discretization -Types of
elements – shape function –plane stress and plane strain problems Analysis packages and
applications.
UNIT IV:
Design and Optimisation: Principles of design of steel and RC Structures -Applications to
simple design problems – Optimisation techniques - Algorithms - Linear Programming –
Simplex method
UNIT V:
Expert Systems: Introduction to artificial intelligence - Knowledge based expert systems -Rules
and decision tables –Inference mechanisms - Simple applications.
46
Text Books:
1. CAD/CAM, Computer Aided Design and Manufacturing by Groover M.P. and Zimmers
E.W. Jr., Prentice Hall of India Ltd, New Delhi, 1993.
2. Computer Aided Design by Krishna moorthy C.S.Rajeev S., Narosa Publishing House, New
Delhi, 1993
References:
1. Structural Analysis and Design by Harrison H.B., Part I and II Pergamon Press, Oxford,
1990.
2. Optimisation Theory and Applications by Rao S.S., Wiley Eastern Limited, New Delhi,
1977.
3. Expert System Principles and Case Studies by Richard Forsyth (Ed), Chapman and Hall,
London, 1989.
4. Computational structural mechanics by S. Rajasekaran, G. Sankara subramanian, PHI
Learning,2001
47
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
Elective-III / Elective-IV 3 0 3
(STR21) EARTHQUAKE RESISTANT DESIGN OF BUILDINGS
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ Explain the possible causes for earthquakes understanding seismology.
▪ Understand the principles of earthquake resistant deign of RC and masonry buildings
▪ Learn to evaluate base shears using IS methods
▪ Detail the structural members for Ductile requirements
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Predict the sources of earthquakes understanding seismology and conceptually design
the buildings
▪ Apply the Response Spectrum Analysis Method and static equivalent method for the
determination of lateral loads on the buildings
▪ Apply ductility requirements for the design of structural components.
▪ Assess seismic performance of non-structural components and structural components
and identify effective measures to mitigate potential damage.
UNIT I:
Engineering Seismology: Earthquake phenomenon cause of earthquakes-Faults- plate seismic
tectonics- waves- Terms associated with earthquakes-Magnitude/Intensity of an earthquake-
scales- Energy released-Earthquake measuring instruments-seismoscope, accelerograph,
accelerograph- Characteristics of strong ground motions - Seismic zones of India.
UNIT II:
Conceptual Design: Introduction-Functional planning-continuous load path-overall form-
simplicity and symmetry-elongated shapes-stiffness and strength-Horizontal and Vertical
members-Twisting of buildings-Ductility-definition-ductility relationships, flexible buildings-
framing systems-choice of construction materials-unconfined concrete-confined concrete,
masonry-reinforcing steel. Introduction to earthquake resistant design: seismic design
requirements-regular and irregular configurations - basic assumptions - design earthquake loads -
basic load combinations- permissible stresses-seismic methods of analysis-factors in seismic
analysis-equivalent lateral force method – response spectrum method -Time history method.
UNIT III:
Reinforced Concrete Buildings: Principles of earthquake resistant deign of RC members-
structural models for frame buildings- seismic methods of analysis- seismic design methods- Is
code based methods for seismic design- seismic evaluation and retrofitting- Vertical line-
irregularities- plan configuration problems- Lateral load resisting systems- Determination of
design lateral forces- Equivalent lateral force procedure- Lateral distribution of base shear.
Masonry Buildings: Introduction-Elastic properties of masonry assemblage- Categories of
48
masonry buildings- Behaviour of unreinforced and reinforced masonry walls- Behaviour of
walls- Box action and bands- Behaviour of infill walls- Improving seismic behaviour of masonry
buildings- Load combinations and permissible stresses- seismic design requirements- Lateral
load analysis of masonry buildings.
UNIT IV:
Structural Walls and Non-structural Elements: strategies in the location of structural walls-
sectional shape+ variations in elevation- cantilever walls without openings- Failure mechanism
of non-structures- Effects of non-structural elements on structural system- Analysis of non-
structural elements- prevention of non-structural damage- Isolation of non-structures.
UNIT V:
Ductility Considerations in Earthquake Resistant Design of RC Buildings: Introduction-
Impact of Ductility' Requirements for Ductility- Assessment of ductility- Factors-affecting
Ductility- Ductile detailing considerations as per IS 13920. Behaviour of beam, columns and
joints in RC buildings during earthquakes-Vulnerability of open ground storey and short columns
during earthquakes. Capacity Based Design: Introduction to capacity Design, Capacity Design
for Beams and columns- Case studies.
Text Books:
1. Earthquake Resistant Design of Structures-S.K.Duggal, Oxford University Press, 2011
2. Earthquake Resistant Design of Structures-Pankaj Agarwal and Manish Shrikhande, Prentice
Hall of India Pvt.Ltd.,2006
References:
1. Seismic Design of Reinforced Concrete and Masonry Building -T Paulay and M.J.N.
Priestly, John Wiley & Sons, 2009
2. D.J. Dowrick, Earthquake Resistant Design and Risk Reduction, 2nd Edition, Wiley India,
011.
3. Earthquake Resistant Design of Masonry Building ,MihaTomazevic, Imperial College Press,
2006
4. Earthquake Tips-Learning Earthquake Design and Construction- C.V.R.Murthy
Standards:
1. IS: 1893(Part-1)-2002, “Criteria for Earthquake Resistant Design of structures”, B.I.S., New
Delhi
2. IS: 13920-1993, “Ductile detailing of Concrete structures subjected to seismic force”-
guidelines, B.I.S. New Delhi
49
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
Elective-III / Elective-IV 3 0 3
(STR22) ADVANCED STEEL DESIGN
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ Compute the Dead, Live and Wind loads acting on roofs.
▪ Analyze the multistory building frames for horizontal loads by approximate methods.
▪ Calculate the forces in the members of the steel truss girder bridges for various loads.
▪ Understand the Static and Kinematic methods of Plastic analysis.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Analyze the industrial buildings for various loads and design the various components.
▪ Compute the axial forces, shear forces and bending moments in beams and columns of a
multistory building frame and can sketch SFD, BMD.
▪ Design the compression and tension members of a steel truss girder bridges.
▪ Compute the collapse loads, plastic moment capacities of continuous beams, portal
frames and gable frames.
ELASTIC DESIGN:
UNIT I:
Analysis and Design of Industrial Buildings: Dead loads, live loads on roofs, Design wind
speed, wind pressure and wind load on roofs, wind effect on cladding and louvers, Design of
angular roof truss, Design of tubular roof truss, Truss for a railway platform, Design of purlins
for roofs, Design of built-up purlins, Design of knee braced trusses and stanchions, Design of
bracings.
UNIT II:
Analysis of Multistorey Frames : Approximate methods for lateral loads such as Portal method,
Cantilever method and Factor method.
Space Frames: Types of space structures, Materials used in space frames, Advantages,
Disadvantages & Practical difficulties, Analysis and design of towers.
UNIT III:
Design of Steel Truss Girder Bridges: Types of truss bridges, Component parts of a truss
bridge, Economic proportions of trusses, Self weight of truss girders, Design of bridge
compression members, tension members, Wind load on truss girder bridges, Wind effect on top
lateral bracing, bottom lateral bracing, portal bracing and sway bracing.
50
PLASTIC DESIGN:
UNIT IV:
Analysts of Structures for Ultimate Load: Introduction, Shape factor, Static method of
analysis, Mechanism method of analysis, Applications to continuous beams, rectangular portal
frames, gable frames, inclined frames using instantaneous centre method, Methods for
performing moment check, Trial and error method, Moment balancing method.
UNIT V:
Ultimate Deflections: Deflections at ultimate load, Applications to beams and frames, Principles
of optimization in structural design, Application to some simple cases- Minimum weight design.
Text Books:
1. Design of Steel Structures by S. K. Duggal, Tata McGraw-Hill Publishers, 3rd Edition, 2008.
2. Design of Steel Structures -Vol. II by Dr. Ramachandra, Scientific Publishers.
References:
1. Comprehensive Design of Steel Structures by B.C. Punmia, Laxmi Publications, 1998.
2. Design Steel Structures by Edwin H. Gaylord, Charles N.Gaylord, James E. Stallmeyer, Tata
McGraw-Hill Publishers, 3rd Edition, 1992.
3. The Plastic Methods of Structural Analysis by B.G.Neal, Spon Press, 3rd Edition, 1977.
4. Plastic Design of Steel Frames by Lynn S. Beedle, John Wiley & Sons, 1958.
51
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
Elective-III / Elective-IV 3 0 3
(STR23) COMPOSITE MATERIALS
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ Develop an understanding of the linear elastic analysis of composite materials.
▪ Understand the concepts such as anisotropic material behavior and the analysis of
laminated plates.
▪ learn the underlying principles and techniques associated with the stress analysis and
strength predictions of composite material structures.
▪ Design GRP Structures
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Analyze problems on macromechanical behavior of composite lamina.
▪ Understand the Behaviour of Glass Fibre-Reinforced laminates
▪ Design GRP sections
▪ Solve the problems on bending, buckling, and vibration of laminated plates and
beams.
UNIT I:
Introduction: Requirements of structural materials influence of nature of materials in structural
form. Nature of structural materials- Homogeneous materials, composite materials.
UNIT II:
Macro Mechanical Properties of Composite Laminae: Introduction, Assumptions and
Idealizations, stress strain relationship for composite Laminae- Isotropic, orthotropic laminae,
strength characteristics – Basic concepts- hypothesis for isotropic and orthotropic laminae Macro
mechanical Analysis of composite laminae, Introduction, Assumptions and Limitations, stiffness
characteristics of glass reinforced laminae- Stress- Strain relationships in continuous
discontinuous fibre laminae, strength characteristics of glass reinforced laminae- strengths in
continuous, discontinuous fibre laminae.
UNIT III:
Behaviour of Glass Fibre-Reinforced laminates: Introduction, stiffness characteristics of
Laminated composites-Behaviour of laminated beams and plates, strength characteristics of
Laminated composites- Strength, analysis and failure criteria, Effect of inter laminar structures
Glass Reinforced composites: Introduction - continuously reinforced laminates, uni-directional
and multi directional continuously reinforced laminates, Discontinuously reinforced laminates -
Stiffness and Strength properties.
52
UNIT IV:
GRP Properties Relevant to Structural Design: Introduction, short-term strength and
stiffness-Tensile compressive, Flexural and Shearing' Long term strength and Stiffness
properties, Temperature effects, Effect of Fire, structural joint Adhesive, mechanical,
Combinational, Transformed sections.
UNIT V:
Design of GRP Box Beams: Introduction, loading, span and cross-sectional shape selection of
material, Beam manufacture beam stresses, Experimental Behaviour, Effect on Beam
performance- Modulus of long term loading. Design of Stressed skinned roof structural
Introduction, loading and material properties, preliminary design, and computer analysis.
Text Books:
1. Mechanics of composite materials and Structures by Madhujith Mukhopadhyay, Universities
Press.
2. Mechanics of Composite Materials by Robert M Jones, 2nd Edition, Taylor and Francis/BSP
Books, 1998.
References:
1. New Concrete Materials by R.N. Swamy, 1st Edition, Blackie Academic and Professional,
Chapman & Hall,1983
2. GRP in Structural Engineering by M. Holmes and D.J Just.
53
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
Elective-III / Elective-IV 3 0 3
(STR24) PRESTRESSED CONCRETE
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ Realize the necessity of pre-stressing the concrete structures.
▪ Critically review the techniques of prestressing ,both Pre-tensioning and Post-
tensioning.
▪ Design the prestressed concrete members for ultimate limit state and limit state of
serviceability.
▪ Realize the importance of the Statically Indeterminate structures and Load
Balancing.
▪ Analyze and design continuous prestressed concrete beams with bent cables having
straight and parabolic profiles.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Realize the importance of prestessing the long span structures and heavily loaded
members.
▪ Acquire the knowledge of various prestressing techniques ;their merits and demerits.
▪ Develop skills in planning, analysis and design of prestressed concrete beams, and
slabs.
▪ Develop skills to satisfy the serviceability and strength provisions of the Indian
Standards (IS: 1343-2012).
UNIT I:
General Principles of Prestressed Concrete: Pre-tensioning and Post –tensioning, Prestressing
by straight, concentric, eccentric, bent and parabolic tendons, Different methods and systems of
prestressing like Hoyer system, Freyssinet system, Magnel-Blaton system and Lee-Mc call
system.
Losses of Prestress : Loss of prestress in pre-tensioned and post-tensioned members due to
various causes like elastic shortening of concrete, shrinkage of concrete, creep of concrete,
relaxation of steel, slip in anchorage, bending of member and frictional loss. Analysis of sections
for flexure.
UNIT II:
Design of Section for Flexure: Allowable stresses, Elastic design of simple beams having
rectangular and I-section for flexure, kern lines, cable profile and cable layout.
Design of Sections for Shear: Shear and Principal Stresses, Improving shear resistance by
different prestressing techniques - horizontal, inclined and vertical prestressing, Analysis of
rectangular and l-beam, Design of shear reinforcement, Indian code provisions.
54
UNIT III:
Deflections of Prestressed Concrete Beams: Short term deflections of uncracked members,
Prediction of long-time deflections, Load - Deflection curve for a PSC beam, IS code
requirements for maximum deflections.
UNIT IV:
Transfer of Prestress in Pre-tensioned Members: Transmission of prestressing force by
bond,Transmission length, Flexural bond stresses, IS code provisions.
Anchorage zone stresses in post-tensioned members: stress distribution in End block -
Analysis by approximate, Guyon and Magnel methods, Anchorage zone reinforcement.
UNIT V:
Statically Indeterminate Structures: Advantages & disadvantages of continuous beams -
Primary and secondary moments - P and C lines - Linear transformation, concordant and non-
concordant cable profiles -Analysis of continuous beams.
Text Books:
1. Pre-stressed Concrete by Krishna Raju, Tata Mc.Graw Hill Publications,4th Edition,2006
2. Pre-stressed Concrete by N.Rajagopalan, Narosa publications, 2nd Edition,2014
References:
1. Pre-stressed Concrete by Ramamrutham, Dhanpat Rai & Sons Publications, 2nd Edition,2005
2. Pre-stressed Concrete Structures by P.Dayaratnam,Oxford & IBH Publishers, Fourth Edition
3. Design of Pre-stressed Concrete Structures by T.Y. Lin & N.H.Burns, John Wiley & Sons,
3rd Edition, 2005
4. Pre-stressed Concrete Structures by M.K.Hurst, Tata Mc-Graw Hill Publications, 2nd Edition,
2009
55
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
Elective-III / Elective-IV 3 0 3
(STR25) STABILITY OF STRUCTURES
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ Derive the differential equations for beam columns
▪ Understand the Elastic Buckling of bars and frames
▪ Understandthe Torsional Buckling
▪ Analyse lateral buckling of beams and plates
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Apply the approximate methods based on energy to determine the stability of simple
systems.
▪ Differentiate how the tangent modulus and double modulus theories of inelastic buckling
led to the column paradox, thereby preventing further difficulties for a general theory of
structures.
▪ Analyse elastic and in-elastic buckling of bars and frames
▪ Analyse the beams for lateral-torsional buckling
UNIT I:
Beam Columns: Differential equations for beam columns- beam columns with concentrated
loads - continuous lateral loads-couples- beam columns with built in ends - continuous beams
with axial load - application of trigonometrically series - Effects of initial curvature on
deflections – Determination of allowable stresses.
UNIT II:
Elastic Buckling of Bars and Frames: Elastic Buckling of straight columns - Effect of shear
stress on buckling - Eccentrically and laterally loaded columns- Buckling of frames large
deflections of buckled bars-Energy methods- Buckling of bars on elastic foundations- Buckle
line of bar with intermediate compressive forces - Buckling of bars with change in cross-section
- Effect of shear force on critical load- built up columns.
UNIT III:
In-Elastic Buckling: Buckle line of straight bar- Double modulus theory - Tangent modulus
theory, Inelastic lateral Buckling. Experiments and design formulae: Experiments on columns –
Critical stress diagram - Empirical formulae for design - various end conditions
UNIT IV:
Torsion Buckling: Pure torsion of thin walled bars of open cross section - Non-uniform torsion
of thin wall debars of open cross section-Torsional buckling-Buckling by torsion and flexure.
56
UNIT V:
Lateral Buckling of Simply Supported Beams: Beams of Rectangular cross-section subjected
to pure bending. Buckling of simply supported Rectangular plates: Derivation of equation of
plate subjected to constant compression in one and two directions.
Text Books:
1. Theory of elastic Stability by Timoshenko & Gere, Mc Graw Hill,2010
2. Stability of metallic structures by Blunch, Mc Graw Hill
References:
1. Theory of Beam- Columns ,Vol- I by Chem. &Atste, Mc. craw Hill
2. Structural Stability of Columns and Plates by N.G.R. Iyengar, Ellis Horwood Ltd, 1988.
3. Principles of Structural Stability Theory by Alexander Chajes, , Prentice Hall, 1974.
57
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
Elective-III / Elective-IV 3 0 3
(STR26) ANALYSIS & DESIGN OF SHELLS AND FOLDED PLATES
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ Understand different types of shells and folded plates.
▪ Know different theories for the analysis.
▪ Know procedure to analyse the structures.
▪ Differentiate between different theories of analysis.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Use appropriate theory to analyse the shell structures.
▪ Differentiate a shell structure based on its properties.
▪ Analyse and Design shell structures
▪ Understand the structural importance of shells and folded plates.
UNIT I:
Shells: Functional behaviour - examples - structural behaviour of shells - classification of shells -
Definitions - various methods of analysis of shells - merits and demerits of each method - 2D.
Membrane equation. Equations of equilibrium: Derivation of stress resultants - cylindrical shells
- Flugge’s simultaneous equations.
UNIT II:
Derivation of the governing DKJ equation for bending theory - Schorer's theory - Application to
the analysis and design of short and long shells - Beam theory of cylindrical shells: Beam and
arch action, Analysis using beam theory.
UNIT III:
Introduction to the Shells of Double Curvature: Geometry, analysis and design of elliptic
paraboloid, conoid and hyperbolic paraboloid shells, inverted umbrella type.
UNIT IV:
Axi-Symmetrical Shells: General equation - Analysis of axi-symmetrical shells by membrane
theory. Application to spherical shell and hyperboloid of revolution, cooling towers.
UNIT V:
Folded Plates: Introduction - Types of folded plates - structural behaviour of folded plates -
advantages – Assumptions – Whitney’s method of analysis - Edge shear equation - Analysis of
folded plates by Whitney's method. Simpson’s method of Analysis of folded plates - moment and
stress distribution - no notation and rotation solutions - continuous folded plates - pre stressed
continuous folded plates.
58
Text Books:
1. Design and Construction of Concrete Shell Roofs by G.S. Ramaswamy, CBS Publisher, 1st
Edition, 2005.
2. Thin Shell Structures- Classical and Modern Analysis by J.N.Bandyopadhyay, New Age
International Publishers, 1st Edition, 2014.
References:
1. Design of Reinforced Concrete Shells and Folded Plates by P.C.Varghese, PHI Learning Pvt.
Ltd., 1st Edition, 2011.
2. Theory and Design of concrete shell roofs by Binoy Kumar Chatterjee, Chapman and Hall,
1st edition, 1988.
3. Thin shell concrete structures by David P. Billington, McGraw-Hill, 1st Edition, 1982.
4. Advanced Reinforced Concrete Design by Dr.N.Krishna Raju, CBS Publishers &
Distributors, 2nd Edition, 2013.
59
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
Open Elective-II 3 0 3
(STR41) OPTIMIZATION TECHNIQUES IN ENGINEERING
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ Define statement of optimization problem
▪ Solve optimization problems using linear programming
▪ Solve optimization problems using Dynamic programming
▪ Optimize structural elements like beams, trusses and framesand achieve efficient designs
based on various applications and objective functions for professional practice.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Understand Engineering optimization.
▪ Classify and formulate the optimization problems.
▪ Acquire the concepts of linear programming & Dynamic programming.
▪ Perform network analysis
UNIT I:
Introduction to Optimization: Introduction - Historical developments – Engineering
applications of optimization - statement of an optimization problem - classification of
optimization problems - Optimization Techniques. Optimization by calculus: introduction -
Unconstrained functions of a single variable - problems involving simple constraints _
Unconstrained functions of several variables - treatment of equality constraints _ Extension lo
multiple equality constraints - Optimization with inequality constraints - The generalized
Newton-Raphson method.
UNIT II:
Linear Programming: Introduction - Applications of linear programming - standard form
of a linear programming problem - Geometry of linear programming problems - Definitions
and theorems - Solution of a system of Linear simultaneous equations - pivotal reduction of a
general system of equations - Motivation of the simplex Method - simplex Algorithm _ Two
phases of the simplex method.
UNIT III:
Non-Linear Programming: Introduction - Unimoial Function - unrestricted search - Exhaustive
search - Dichotomous search - Interval Halving method _ Fibonacci method - Golden section
method- comparison of elimination methods _ Unconstrained optimization techniques- Direct
search methods - Random search methods _ grid search method - Univariate method - Powell’s
method - simplex method – Indirect search methods - Gradient of afunction - steepest descent
method - conjugate gradient - Newton's method.
60
UNIT IV:
Dynamic Programming: Introduction - Multistage decision processes - concept of
suboptimization and the principle of optimality - computational procedure in dynamic
programming - example illustrating the Calculus method of solution - example illustrating the
tabular of solution - conversion of a final value problem into an initial value problem -
continuous dynamic programming - Additional applications.
UNIT V:
Network Analysis: introduction - Elementary graph theory - Network variables and problem
types - Minimum-cost route - Network capacity problems - Modification of the directional sense
of the network.
Text Books:
1. Optimization: Theory and Applications by S.S. Rao, Halsted Press,2009
2. Numerical optimization Techniques for Engineering Design with applications by
G.N.Vanderplaats, Tata Mc-Graw hill,1984
References:
1. Introduction to Optimum Design by J.S.Arora, Academic press,2004
61
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
Open Elective-II 3 0 3
(HIG41) CONSTRUCTION TECHNOLOGY & PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ To understand role of project management
▪ To learn preparation of project Schedules, Life cycle cost.
▪ To learn about critical construction management
▪ To understand about on BOT, BOOT & PP projects
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Develop Organization Structure of Construction Company
▪ Estimate Project Cost and Develop Cost Models
▪ Prepare Contract documents
▪ Arbitration and settlement of disputes, arbitration and conciliation Act
UNIT I:
Introduction to Project Management: Construction as industry and its challenges, Role of
Project management, systems approach, systems theory and Concepts, Organisation,
Management Functions, Overview of Management Objectives, Tools and Techniques, Life cycle
of construction projects, time estimates and construction schedules, CPM and PERT, Linear
programming, queuing concept, simulation, bidding models, game theory
UNIT II:
Project Cost Estimation: Approximate cost, detailed cost estimates, administrative approval
and expenditure sanctions, rate analysis by client and contractor, bidding processes and
strategies, Pre-qualification of bidders, construction equipment, equipment economics, various
items of construction : Earthwork, Excavation. Earth- moving, Drilling, Blasting, dewatering,
foundation, Finishing items, construction safety including of fire and electrical works
UNIT III:
Contract Management: Why law is critical to construction management, contract, its definition,
Indian contract Act, documents forming a contract, Tendering and contractual procedures, stages
of awarding contract, general conditions of Indian (domestic) contracts, General conditions of
International contracts (FIDIC), contract administration; Duties and responsibilities of parties;
important site documents, importance of standards and codes in contract documents.
UNIT IV:
Quality Management and Safety in Construction Industry: Quality control by statistical
methods, sampling plan, control charts, ISO 14000, Safety Measures, Safety Programmes, Safety
Awareness and Implementation of Safety Plan - Compensation
62
UNIT V:
Interpretation of Contract: Interpretation of contract in case of inconsistency, post contract
problems, contract interpretation, concealed conditions, termination of contract, claims and
disputes, dispute resolution techniques, negotiations, arbitration and settlement of disputes,
arbitration and conciliation Act, alternate dispute resolutions, delay, liquidated damages, actual
damages.
Text Books:
1. "A Guide to Quantity Surveyors, Engineers Architects and Builders(Vol I: Taking off
quantities, Abstracting & Billing; Vol II: Analysis of Prices)" by Kharb, K.S.
2. "Building and Engineering Contracts" by Patil, B.S., Pune
References:
1. "Law relating to Building and Engineering Contracts in India" by Gajerai, G.T.,
Butterworths.
2. Construction Cost Engineering Handbook by Anghel Patterson - Marcel DekkenInc
3. Fundamentals of Construction Management and Organisations by K.Waker A Teraih and
Jose M.Grevarn;
4. A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK), Draft Copy, 1994. A
Publication of the Project management Institute, USA.
63
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
Open Elective-II 3 0 3
(GTE41) GROUND-FOUNDATION-STRUCTURE INTERACTION
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ To develop an understanding to function on multidisciplinary areas.
▪ To introduce the concepts and terminology of structure soil interaction.
▪ To create ability to identify, formulates, and solve foundation engineering problems.
▪ Understanding the impact of engineering solutions in economic and environmental
context.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ identify, formulate and solve geotechnical engineering problems.
▪ design a foundation system for economic and safe aspects for the society.
▪ improvise techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for necessary
understanding in geotechnical engineering practice.
▪ apply the theoretical knowledge to solve real life problems in the field.
UNIT I:
Soil-Foundation Interaction: Introduction to soil-foundation interaction problems, Soil
behaviour, Foundation behaviour, Interface behaviour, Scope of soil foundation interaction
analysis, soil response models, Winkler, Elastic continuum, Two parameter elastic models,
Elastic-plastic behaviour, Time dependent behaviour.
UNIT II:
Beam on Elastic Foundation: Soil Models: Infinite beam, Two-parameters models, Isotropic
elastic halfspace model, Analysis of beams of finite length, combined footings.
UNIT III:
Analysis of Finite Plates: Axis symmetric loading of circular plate, two-parameter elastic
medium, elastic solid medium, Application of strain enerygy method. Rectangular plates-elastic
medium, elastic solid medium. Numerical analysis of finite plates – Finite difference method,
Finite element techniques, Discrete element method.
UNIT IV:
Analysis of Axially and Laterally Loaded Piles and Pile Groups: Elastic analysis of single
pile, Theoretical solutions for settlement and load distributions, Analysis of pile group,
Interaction analysis, Load distribution in groups with rigid cap, Load deflection prediction for
laterally loaded piles, Sub grade reaction and elastic analysis, Interaction analysis, Pile-raft
system.
64
UNIT V:
Ground-Foundation-Structure Interaction: Effect of structure on ground foundation
interaction, Static and dynamic loads.
Text Books:
1. Elastic Analysis of Soil-Foundation Interaction by Selvadurai, A. P. S., Elsevier, 1979
2. Pile Foundation Analysis and Design by Poulos, H. G., and Davis, E. H.,Wiley, 1980
References:
1. Foundation Analysis by Scott, R. F., Prentice-Hall, 1981
2. Foundation Design & Analyses by Bowles, J. E., Mc Graw Hill Education, Fifth Edition
3. Advanced Foundation Engineering by Das, B. M., Cengage learning, Seventh Edition, 2011
65
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(STR52) ADVANCED CAD LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
▪ Understand the importance of writing macros in Excel
▪ Model the physical problem in STAAD
▪ Analyse and interpret the post process results
▪ Design the structures for gravity & lateral loads as per Indian codes
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course, students should be able to
▪ Write program blocks in Excel
▪ Preprocess the structural elements/structures using STAAD.Pro
▪ Analyse the structural elements/structures
▪ Design the RC and Steel structural elements as per IS Codes.
1. Program for design of slabs using Excel
2. Program for design of beams using Excel
3. Program for design of column using Excel
4. Program for design of footings using Excel
5. Analysis of 2-D frame using STAAD Pro.
6. Analysis and design of truss using STAAD Pro.
7. Analysis of multi-storeyed space frame, using STAAD Pro.
8. Analysis of multi-storeyed buildings for lateral loads (Wind or Earthquake)
66
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
L T/P/D C
I Year- II Sem. M.Tech (Structural Engineering)
0 0 4
(STR62) MINI PROJECT – II
A mini project work shall be carried out on any topic of Structural Engineering and a
seminar should be given on the same along with a brief report.
67
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II Year – I Sem. M.Tech (Structural Engineering)
L T/P/D C
0 0 4
(STR63) COMPREHENSIVE VIVA-VOCE
II Year – I Sem. M.Tech (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
0 0 8
(STR71) INTERNSHIP / DISSERTATION PHASE- I
II Year – II Sem. M.Tech (Structural Engineering) L T/P/D C
0 0 18
(STR72) DISSERTATION PHASE - II
68
