SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/mtechsyl/r15mvlsi.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE
AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
M.Tech.
VLSI SYSTEM DESIGN
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2015 - 2016)
Electronics and
Communication Engineering
VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous Institute, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
NBA Accreditation for CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT B.Tech. Programmes
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi, Affiliated to JNTUH
Recognized as “College with Potential for Excellence” by UGC
Vignana Jyothi Nagar, Pragathi Nagar, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500 090, TS, India.
Telephone No: 040-2304 2758/59/60, Fax: 040-23042761
E-mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
1
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
Academic Regulations - M.Tech. Programme
(Applicable for the batches admitted from the academic year 2015-2016)
1. Introduction
Academic programmes of the institute are governed by rules and regulations as approved by the Academic
Council of the institute.
These academic rules and regulations are effective from the academic year 2015-16, for the students
admitted into two year post graduate programme offered by the college leading to Master of Technology (M.
Tech.) degree in different specializations offered by the departments of Civil Engineering, Electrical and
Electronics Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Computer
Science and Engineering, Information Technology and Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering.
The M.Tech. degree of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad shall be conferred on students
who are admitted to the programme after fulfilling all the requirements for the award of the degree.
1.1 Eligibility for Admissions
Admission to the above program shall be made subject to the eligibility and qualifications prescribed from
time to time. Admissions shall be made on the basis of GATE Rank and merit rank obtained at an Entrance
Test conducted by the TSSCHE or as decided by TSSCHE subject to reservations prescribed by the
university/ State Government from time to time.
2. Programmes of study
The following two year M.Tech. degree programmes of study are offered by the departments at VNR VJIET.
Department Specializations
1. Advanced Manufacturing Systems
ME 2. Automation
3. CAD/CAM
1. Highway Engineering
CE 2. Structural Engineering
3 Geotechnical Engineering
1. Power Electronics
EEE
2. Power Systems
1. Software Engineering
CSE
2. Computer Science and Engineering
1. VLSI System Design
ECE
2. Embedded Systems
EIE Electronics and Instrumentation
IT Computer Networks and Information Security
 ‘ENGLISH’ language is used as the medium of instruction in all the above programmes.
2
3. Attendance requirements
Each academic year shall be divided into two semesters, each of 90 Instructions days, excluding
examination, evaluation, declaration of results etc.
3.1 A student shall be eligible to appear for the semester end examinations in subject if he / she acquire a
minimum of 75% of attendance in that subject.
3.2 Shortage of attendance up to 10% in any subject (i.e., attendance of 65% and above and below 75%) in
a semester may be condoned by the Institute Academic Committee based on the rules prescribed by
the Academic Council of the Institute from time to time.
3.3 A student shall get minimum required attendance in at least three (03) theory subjects in the present
semester to get promoted to the next semester. In order to qualify for the award of the M.Tech. degree, the
student shall complete all the academic requirements of the subjects, as per the course structure.
3.4 Shortage of attendance below 65% shall in NO case be condoned.
3.5 A stipulated fee shall be payable towards condonation of shortage of attendance.
3.6 In case the student secures less than the required attendance in any subject(s), he shall not be permitted to
appear for the semester end examination in that subject(s). He shall re-register for the subject when offered
next.
4. Evaluation
i. The performance of a student in each semester shall be evaluated subject–wise with a maximum of 100
marks for theory and 100 marks for practical subjects. In addition, mini-project and comprehensive
viva-voce shall be evaluated for 100 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects, the distribution shall be 40 marks for mid-term evaluation and 60 marks
for the semester end examination.
 Mid-Term Evaluation (40 M):
Mid-term evaluation consists of mid-term examination (30 M) and assignment/objective test/ case
study/course project (10 M).
 Mid-term examination (30 M):
 For theory subjects, two mid-term examinations shall be conducted in each semester as per the
academic calendar. Each mid-term examination shall be evaluated for 30 marks.
 Pattern of Mid-term examination:
3 X 10M = 30 M (three internal choice questions one from each UNIT shall be given, the student has to
answer ONE question from each UNIT)
 There shall be TWO mid-term examinations for each subject and the average of two mid-term
examinations shall be considered for calculating final mid-term examination marks in that
subject.
 Assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project (10 M):
 Two assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project shall be given to the students covering the
syllabus of first mid-term and second mid-term examinations respectively and evaluated for 10 marks
each.
 The first assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project shall be submitted before first mid-term
examination and the second one shall be submitted before second mid-term examination.
3
 The average of 2 assignments shall be taken as final assignment marks.
iii. For practical subjects, there shall be a continuous evaluation during the semester for 40 marks and 60
marks for semester end examination. Out of the 40 marks, day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be
evaluated for 10 marks, and 15 marks for practical examination and 15 marks for laboratory record.
 Semester End Examination (60 M):
(a) Theory Courses
Question paper pattern for semester end examination (60 Marks)
 Paper shall consist of 05 questions of 10 marks each. (05X12M = 60 M)
 There shall be 01 question from each unit with internal choice.
(b) Practical Courses
Each laboratory course shall be evaluated for 60 marks. The semester end examination shall be conducted
by two examiners, one Internal and other external concerned with the subject of the same / other department
/ Industry. The evaluation shall be as per the standard format.
4.1. Evaluation of Mini-Project: There shall be two presentations during the first year, one in each semester. For
mini-project 1 and mini-project 2, a student under the supervision of a faculty member, shall collect the
literature on a topic, critically review the literature, carry out the mini-project, submit it to the department in a
report form and shall make an oral presentation before the departmental Project Review Committee (PRC).
The Departmental PRC consists of Head of the Department, supervisor and one senior faculty member of the
department. For each mini-project there shall be only internal evaluation of 100 marks. A student has to
secure a minimum of 50% to be declared successful.
4.2. There shall be a comprehensive viva-voce in II year I semester. The comprehensive viva- Voce shall be
conducted by a committee consisting of Head of the Department and two senior faculty members of the
department. The comprehensive viva-voce is aimed to assess the students’ understanding in various
subjects studied during the M.Tech. programme of study. The comprehensive viva-voce shall be evaluated
for 100 marks by the committee. There are no internal marks for the comprehensive viva-voce. A student
must secure a minimum of 50% to be declared successful.
4.3. A student shall be deemed to have secured the minimum academic requirement in a subject if he secures a
minimum of 40% of marks in the semester end examination and a minimum aggregate of 50% of the total
marks in the semester end examination and mid-term evaluation taken together.
4.4. A student shall be given one chance to re-register, after completion of the course work, for each subject,
provided the internal marks secured by a student are less than 50% and he has failed in the semester end
examination. In such a case student may re-register for the subject(s) and secure required minimum
attendance. Attendance in the re-registered subject(s) has to be calculated separately to become eligible to
write the end examination in the re-registered subject(s). Re-registration for the subjects is allowed only if
that particular re-registration subjects are the hindrance for the award of Degree. Re-registration is allowed in
this case provided the student doesn’t have any subject(s) yet to pass other than the re-registration subjects
where the internal marks are less than 50% with prior permission.
4.5. Laboratory examination for M.Tech. courses must be conducted with two examiners, one of them being
laboratory class teacher and second examiner shall be a teacher of same specialization either external or a
teacher from the same department other than the teacher who conducted laboratory classes for that batch.
4
5. Evaluation of Project / Dissertation Work.
5.1 Registration of Project Work: A student shall be permitted to register for the project work after satisfying
the attendance requirement of all the subjects (theory and practical subjects).
5.2 A Project Review Committee (PRC) shall be constituted with at least four members namely HOD, PG
coordinator of the M.Tech. programme, project supervisor and one senior faculty member of same
specialization.
5.3 After getting permission as per 5.1, a student has to submit, in consultation with the project supervisor, the
title, objective and plan of action of his project work to the Departmental PRC for its approval. Only after
obtaining the approval of PRC, the student can initiate the project work.
5.4 If a student wishes to change his supervisor or topic of the project he can do so with the approval of PRC.
However, the committee shall examine whether the change of topic/supervisor leads to a major change of
his initial plans of project proposal. If so, the date of registration for the project work shall be the date of
change of supervisor or topic as the case may be.
5.5 Internal evaluation of the project shall be on the basis of the seminars (Project reviews) conducted during the
second year by the PRC. A student shall submit draft report in a spiral bound copy form.
5.6 The work on the project shall be initiated in the beginning of the second year and the duration of project is for
two semesters. A student is permitted to submit Project work only after successful completion of theory and
practical course with the approval of PRC not earlier than 240 days from the date of registration of the project
work. For the approval of PRC the student shall submit the draft copy of thesis to the Head of the
Department (Through project supervisor and PG coordinator) and shall make an oral presentation before the
PRC.
The student is eligible to submit project work if he has published at least one paper covering 70% of the
project work and presented his project work in Show and Tell activity.
5.7 After approval of PRC, every student has to submit three copies of the project dissertation certified by the
supervisor to the Department.
5.8 The dissertation shall be adjudicated by one examiner selected by the Chief Superintendent. For this, HOD
shall submit a panel of 3/ 5 examiners, who are eminent in that field with the help of the concerned guide.
5.9 If the report of the examiner is not favourable, the student shall revise and resubmit the Dissertation, within
the time frame as prescribed by PRC. If the report of the examiner is unfavourable again, the dissertation
shall be summarily rejected.
5.10 If the report of the examiner is favorable, viva-voce examination shall be conducted by a board consisting of
the project supervisor, Head of the Department and the external examiner who adjudicated the Thesis. The
Board shall jointly report students work as:
A. Excellent
B. Good
C. Satisfactory
D. Unsatisfactory
Head of the Department shall coordinate and make arrangements for the conduct of viva-voce examination.
The student has to secure any one of the grades as Excellent, Good or Satisfactory on his dissertation and
viva-voce. If the report of the viva-voce is unsatisfactory, the student shall retake the viva-voce examination
after three months, making modifications as suggested. If he fails to get a satisfactory report at the second
5
viva-voce examination, he has to re-register for the project work as mentioned in clause 5.1. However, the
student may select a new guide or new topic or both with the approval of the PRC and submit the project
dissertation with a minimum of 240 days from the date of re-registration. Of course, this shall not prejudice
the clause 6.1 below.
6. Award of Degree and Class
A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the M.Tech. degree, if he pursues a course of study and
complete it successfully for not less than two academic years and not more than four academic years.
6.1 A student, who fails to fulfil all the academic requirements for the award of the degree within four academic
years from the year of his admission, for any reason whatsoever, shall forfeit his seat in M.Tech. Course.
6.2 A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 84 credits and
earn 84 credits. Marks obtained in all 86 credits shall be considered for the calculation of Cumulative
Grade Point Average (CGPA).
6.3 CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points in two year M.Tech. degree programme is as follows:
 Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the total marks obtained in mid-term evaluation and semester
end examinations.
 Grades and Grade points are assigned as given below.
Grade Points(GP)
Marks Obtained Grade Description of Grade
Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 B Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 C Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 D Pass 6.00
<50 F Fail
Not Appeared the Exam(s) N Absent
The student is eligible for the award of the M.Tech degree with the class as mentioned in the following table.
CGPA Class
>= 8.0 First Class with Distinction
>= 7.0 and <8.0 First Class
>= 6.0 and < 7.0 Second Class
 Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
 The performance of each student at the end of the each semester shall be indicated in terms of SGPA. The
SGPA shall be calculated as below:
(cid:1794)(cid:1815)(cid:1820)𝐚(cid:1812) (cid:1805)𝐚(cid:1818)(cid:1814)(cid:1805)(cid:1804) 𝐰(cid:1805)(cid:1809)(cid:1807)(cid:1808)(cid:1820)(cid:1805)(cid:1804) (cid:1807)(cid:1818)𝐚(cid:1804)(cid:1805) (cid:1816)(cid:1815)(cid:1809)(cid:1814)(cid:1820)(cid:1819) (cid:1809)(cid:1814) 𝐚 (cid:1819)(cid:1805)(cid:1813)(cid:1805)(cid:1819)(cid:1820)(cid:1805)(cid:1818)
(cid:1793)𝐆𝐏𝐀=
(cid:1794)(cid:1815)(cid:1820)𝐚(cid:1812) (cid:1803)(cid:1818)(cid:1805)(cid:1804)(cid:1809)(cid:1820)(cid:1819) (cid:1809)(cid:1814) 𝐚 (cid:1819)(cid:1805)(cid:1813)(cid:1805)(cid:1819)(cid:1820)(cid:1805)(cid:1818)
(cid:1816)
∑(cid:1809)=𝟏𝐂(cid:1809)∗𝐆(cid:1809)
(cid:1793)𝐆𝐏𝐀= (cid:1816)
∑(cid:1809)=𝟏𝐂(cid:1809)
6
Where Ci = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘i’
Gi = Grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to the subject ‘i’
i = 1,2,…..p represent the number of subjects in a particular semester
Note: SGPA is calculated and awarded for the students who pass all the courses in a semester.
 Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA):
The CGPA of a student for the entire programme shall be calculated as given below:
 Assessment of the overall performance of a student shall be obtained by calculating Cumulative Grade Point
Average (CGPA), which is weighted average of the grade points obtained in all subjects during the course of
study.
(cid:1794)(cid:1815)(cid:1820)𝐚(cid:1812) (cid:1805)𝐚(cid:1818)(cid:1814)(cid:1805)(cid:1804) 𝐰(cid:1805)(cid:1809)(cid:1807)(cid:1808)(cid:1820)(cid:1805)(cid:1804) (cid:1807)(cid:1818)𝐚(cid:1804)(cid:1805) (cid:1816)(cid:1815)(cid:1809)(cid:1814)(cid:1820)(cid:1819) (cid:1806)(cid:1815)(cid:1818) (cid:1820)(cid:1808)(cid:1805) (cid:1805)(cid:1814)(cid:1820)(cid:1809)(cid:1818)(cid:1805) (cid:1816)(cid:1818)(cid:1815)(cid:1807)(cid:1818)𝐚(cid:1813)(cid:1813)(cid:1805)
𝐂𝐆𝐏𝐀=
(cid:1794)(cid:1815)(cid:1820)𝐚(cid:1812) (cid:1803)(cid:1818)(cid:1805)(cid:1804)(cid:1809)(cid:1820)(cid:1819) (cid:1806)(cid:1815)(cid:1818) (cid:1820)(cid:1808)(cid:1805) (cid:1805)(cid:1814)(cid:1820)(cid:1809)(cid:1818)(cid:1805) (cid:1816)(cid:1818)(cid:1815)(cid:1807)(cid:1818)𝐚(cid:1813)(cid:1813)(cid:1805)
(cid:1813)
∑(cid:1810)=𝟏𝐂(cid:1810)∗𝐆(cid:1810)
𝐂𝐆𝐏𝐀= (cid:1813)
∑(cid:1810)=𝟏𝐂(cid:1810)
Where Cj = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘j’
Gj = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to that subject ‘j’
j = 1,2,….m represent the number of subjects of the entire program.
 Grade lower than D in any subject shall not be considered for CGPA calculation. The CGPA shall be
awarded only when the student acquires the required number of credits prescribed for the program.
 Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
7. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to the Institute, or if any case of indiscipline is pending against him, the result
of the student may be withheld and he shall not be allowed into the next higher semester. The award or issue
of the provisional certificate and the degree may also be withheld in such cases. This delay shall not
prejudice clauses Nos.6.0 and 6.1.
8. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or any other academic
requirements, may be considered for readmission as and when they become eligible. They have to take up
Equivalent subjects, as substitute subjects in place of repeated subjects as decided by the Chairman of the
7
BoS of the respective departments. He/She shall be admitted under the regulation of the batch in which
he/she is readmitted.
9. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each semester shall be 90 instruction days.
10. General
10.1 The academic regulations should be read as a whole for purpose of any interpretation.
10.2 In case of any doubt or ambiguity in the interpretation of the above rules, the decision of the Principal is
final.
10.3 The Institute may change or amend the academic regulations and syllabi at any time and the changes and
amendments made shall be applicable to all the students with effect from the date notified by the Institute.
10.4 Wherever the words he, him or his occur, they shall also include she, her and hers.
11. Supplementary Examination
Supplementary examinations shall be conducted along with regular semester end examinations. (During
even semester regular examinations, supplementary examinations of odd Semester and during odd semester
regular examinations, supplementary examinations of even semester shall be conducted).
8
Vision and Mission Statement of Institute
Vision
To be a World Class University providing value-based education, conducting
interdisciplinary research in cutting edge technologies leading to sustainable
socio-economic development of the nation.
Mission
• To produce technically competent and socially responsible engineers,
managers and entrepreneurs, who will be future ready.
• To involve students and faculty in innovative research projects linked
with industry, academic and research institutions in India and abroad.
• To use modern pedagogy for improving the teaching-learning process.
Vision and Mission Statement of Department
Vision
A resource center of academic excellence for imparting technical education with high
pattern of discipline through dedicated staff which shall set global standards, making
National and International students technologically superior and ethically strong,
who in turn shall improve the quality of life.
Mission
 To provide quality education in the domain of Electronics and Communication
Engineering through effective learner centric process
 To provide industry specific best of breed laboratory facilities beyond
curriculum to promote diverse collaborative research for meeting the
changing industrial and societal needs
9
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
M.Tech. - VLSI SYSTEM DESIGN
PROGRAM EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES
 Demonstrate outstanding analytical and technical skills to evaluate analyze and solve real time
problems in VLSI industry.
 Apply the acquired knowledge to solve engineering problems to suit multi-disciplinary situation.
 Undertake research and development projects in the field of VLSI system design.
 Continue his/her personal development through professional study and self- learning.
 Demonstrate their professional, ethical and social responsibilities and contribute their part for
addressing various global issues.
PROGRAM OUTCOMES
The Student of VLSI System Design will be able to:
a. Apply acquired knowledge from undergraduate engineering and other disciplines to identify,
formulate and present solutions to technical problems related to various areas of VLSI.
b. Learn advanced technologies and analyze complex problems in the fields of VLSI.
c. Design and implementation of VLSI architectures using FPGA/CPLD
d. Addressing specific problems in the field of VLSI system design in the form of mini projects,
analysis, and interpretation of data and synthesis of information to provide valid conclusions.
e. Use the techniques, skills, modern Electronic Design Automation(EDA) tools, software and
Equipment necessary to evaluate and analyze the systems in VLSI design environments.
f. Understand and commit to professional ethics, social responsibilities and norms of engineering
practice.
g. Develop confidence for self-education and imbibe professional values for lifelong learning.
h. Demonstrate effective oral and written communication skills in accordance with technical standards.
i. Become knowledgeable about contemporary developments.
j. Ability to correct the mistakes effectively and learn from them to become good leaders.
k. Understand the scenario of global business.
10
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRONICS &COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
M.TECH. (VLSI SYSTEM DESIGN)
(R15 Regulation)
I Year I Semester COURSE STRUCTURE
Code Group Subject L T/P/D Credits
VSD01 VLSI Technology and Design 3 1 4
CMOS Digital Integrated
VSD02 Core 3 1 4
Circuit Design
HDL based Design and
VSD03 3 1 4
verification
VSD11 Digital System Design 3 0
3 0
VSD12 Scripting Languages for VLSI
Elective – I
Full Custom IC Design and
VSD13 & 3 0
Elective-II
FPGA Architecures
ESS11
Advanced Computer
3 0
3 + 3
Architecture
Basket
VSD14 Device Modeling 3 0
VSD15 VLSI signal processing 3 0
ESS31 Internet of Things 3 0
Advanced Digital Signal
VSD31 Open 3 0
Processing 3
Elective -I
Semiconductor memory
VSD32 3 0
Design and testing
VSD51 Lab VLSI Laboratory – I 0 3 2
VSD61 Mini Project – I 0 0 4
Total 18 6 27
11
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRONICS &COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
M.TECH. (VLSI SYSTEM DESIGN)
(R15 Regulation)
I Year II Semester COURSE STRUCTURE
Code Group Subject L T/P/D Credits
VSD04 Low Power VLSI Design 3 1 4
Core CMOS Analog and Mixed
VSD05 3 1 4
Signal IC Design
VSD06 Design for Testability 3 1 4
ESS21 SOC & NOC Architecture 3 0
3 0
VSD21 Speech Signal Processing
VSD22 Elective – III & Image and Video Processing 3 0
Elective-IV
ESS22 Hardware Software Co-Design 3 0
3 + 3
Basket
Algorithms for VLSI Design
VSD23 3 0
Automation
Optimization Techniques in
VSD24 3 0
VLSI Design
ESS41 Cloud Computing 3 0
Open Elective -
ESS42 Soft Computing Techniques 3 0 3
II
VSD41 Software Defined radio 3 0
VSD52 Lab VLSI Laboratory – II 0 3 2
VSD62 Mini Project – II 0 0 4
Total 18 6 27
II YEAR I SEMESTER
Code Subject L T/P Credits
VSD63 Comprehensive Viva voce 0 0 4
VSD71 Internship/Dissertation Phase – I 0 0 8
Total 12
II Year - II SEMESTER
Code Subject L T/P Credits
VSD72 Dissertation Phase – II 0 0 18
Total 18
*T/P : Tutorial / Practical
12
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
3 1 4
(VSD01) VLSI TECHNOLOGY AND DESIGN
Pre-requisites:
 Basics of VLSI Design and Semiconductor Physics.
Course Objectives:
 To comprehend basic electrical properties of MOS transistor technologies.
 To discuss layouts for combinational circuits with different alternate gate structures.
 To understand different MOS technologies and their fabrication processes.
 To learn about IC package functions and operations.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will able to
 Analyze the relation between various MOS Transistors parameters.
 Design layouts with different alternate gate structures.
 Apply the concept of fabrication process in manufacturing ICs.
 Understand the Bi-CMOS characteristics and package operations.
UNIT I:
Review of Microelectronics and Introduction to MOS Technologies: MOS, CMOS, Bi-CMOS Technology. Basic
Electrical Properties of MOS, CMOS & Bi-CMOS Circuits: I – V relationships, Threshold Voltage V , G , G and
ds ds T m ds
ω , Pass Transistor, MOS, CMOS & Bi-CMOS Inverters, Z /Z , MOS Transistor circuit model, Latch-up in CMOS
o pu pd
circuits.
UNIT II:
Layout Design and Tools: Transistor structures, Wires and vias, Scalable Design rules, Layout Design tools.
Logic Gates & Layouts: Static Complementary Gates, Switch Logic, Alternative Gate circuits, Low power gates,
Resistive and Inductive interconnect delays.
UNIT III:
Overview of semiconductor industry, Stages of Manufacturing, Process and product trends, Crystal growth, Basic
wafer fabrication operations, process yields, Semiconductor material preparation, Basic wafer fabrication operations,
Yield measurement, Contamination sources, Clean room construction, Oxidation and Photolithography, Doping and
Depositions, Metallization. Ten step patterning process, Photoresists, physical properties of photoresists, Storage and
control of photoresists, photo masking process, Hard bake, develop inspect, Dry etching Wet etching, resist stripping
UNIT IV:
Doping and Depositions: Diffusion process steps, deposition, Drive-in oxidation, Ion implantation-1, Ion implantation-
2, CVD basics, CVD process steps, Low pressure CVD systems, Plasma enhanced CVD systems, Vapor phase
epitoxy, molecular beam epitaxy.
UNIT V:
Design Rules and Scaling, BI-CMOS ICs: Choice of transistor types, pnp transistors, Resistors, capacitors,
Packaging: Chip characteristics, package functions, package operations
Text Books:
1. Essentials of VLSI circuits and systems – Kamran Eshraghian, Dougles and A. Pucknell, PHIEdition, 2005.
2. Microchip fabrication- Peter Van Zant,, McGraw Hill, 1997.
13
3. ULSI technology - C.Y. Chang and S.M. Sze, McGraw Hill, 2000
4. Modern VLSI Design –Wayne Wolf, Pearson Education , 3rd Edition, 1997.
References:
1. Micro Electronics circuits Analysis and Design 2nd Edition, Muhammad H Rashid, CENAGE Learning2011.
2. Introduction to VLSI design - Eugene D. Fabricius, McGraw Hill, 1999
3. The VLSI Hand book - Wani-Kai Chen (editor),CRI/IEEE press, 2000
4. VLSI Fabrication principles - S.K. Gandhi, John Wiley and Sons, NY, 1994
.
14
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M. Tech (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
3 1 4
(VSD02) CMOS DIGITAL INTEGRATED CIRCUIT DESIGN
Pre-requisites:
 Knowledge on MOSFETS, digital electronic circuits design, basic VLSI Design
Course Objectives:
 To learn various design styles for combinational Circuits.
 To understand the issues in CMOS digital design.
 To study different high performance and low area VLSI circuits.
 To discuss the VSLI memory architectures.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Create models of digital circuits using various design styles.
 Design static CMOS circuits at the transistor level.
 Analyze high performance and low area VLSI circuits.
 Understand the concepts various memory elements.
UNIT I:
Introduction to MOS Device: MOS Transistor-First Glance at the MOS device, MOS Transistor under static
conditions, threshold voltage, Resistive operation, saturation region, channel length modulation, velocity saturation,
Hot carrier effect, sub threshold conduction.
Pseudo NMOS Logic: – Inverter, Inverter threshold voltage, Output high voltage, Output Low voltage, Gain at gate
threshold voltage, Pseudo NMOS logic gates.
UNIT II
Combinational MOS Logic Circuits: MOS logic circuits with NMOS loads, Static CMOS design, CMOS static
properties, A complementary CMOS design, CMOS inverter, Primitive CMOS logic gates – NOR & NAND gate,
Complex Logic circuits design – Realizing Boolean expressions using NMOS gates and CMOS gates , AOI and OIA
gates, CMOS full adder, pass transistor logic, Differential pass transistor logic, CMOS transmission gates, Designing
with Transmission gates.
UNIT III:
Dynamic Logic Circuits: Basic principle, Voltage Bootstrapping, Synchronous dynamic pass transistor circuits,
Dynamic CMOS transmission gate logic, High performance Dynamic CMOS circuits.
UNIT IV:
Sequential MOS Logic Circuits: Behavior of bi-stable elements, SR Latch, Clocked latch and flip flop circuits, CMOS
D latch and edge triggered flip flop.
UNIT V:
Semiconductor Memories: Types, RAM array organization, DRAM – Types, Operation, Leakage currents in DRAM
cell and refresh operation, SRAM operation Leakage currents in SRAM cells, Flash Memory- NOR flash and NAND
flash.
Text Books:
1. Digital Integrated Circuits – A Design Perspective, Jan M. Rabaey, Anantha Chandrakasan, Borivoje Nikolic, 2nd
Ed., PHI.
15
2. Digital Integrated Circuit Design – Ken Martin, Oxford University Press, 2011.
3. CMOS Digital Integrated Circuits Analysis and Design – Sung-Mo Kang, Yusuf Leblebici, TMH, 3rd Ed., 2011.
References:
1. Introduction to VLSI Systems: A Logic, Circuit and System Perspective – Ming-BO Lin, CRC Press, 2011
2. Neil H.E Weste and Kamran Eshraghian, "Principles of CMOS VLSI Design" , 2nd Edition, Addition Wesley, 1998
16
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M. Tech. (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
3 1 4
(VSD03) HDL BASED DESIGN AND VERIFICATION
Prerequisites:
 Basic Concepts of Digital Systems and Knowledge on Programming Skills
Course Objectives:
 To know digital building blocks, test benches and verify the functionality using Verilog HDL.
 To Learn timing concepts applicable in digital design
 To Study the Verification concepts using System Verilog.
 To Learn principles of verification using System Verilog and design test benches
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Design digital systems using verilog HDL.
 Analyze pre and post synthesis methodologies.
 Comprehend System Verilog designs.
 Analyze randomization and OOP concepts.
UNIT I:
Introduction to Verilog, Language Elements:
Data Types, Expressions: Operands, operators, Gate level modeling: Built in primitive gates, switches, gate delays,
array of instances, implicit nets, examples using gate level modeling, Data flow modeling: Continuous assignment,
net declaration assignment, delays , net delays, examples, Behavioral modeling : Procedural constructs, Initial
Statement, Always statement, conditional statement, case statement, loop statement. examples,
Structural Modeling : Module, ports, Module instantiation ,Unconnected ports, Different port lengths, examples.
UNIT II:
Logic Synthesis:
Introduction to Synthesis: logical synthesis of basic combinational and sequential circuits, Synthesis Methodologies,
Pre and post synthesis mismatch, Translation, mapping and optimization.
UNIT III:
Introduction to System Verilog: Key features in System Verilog, Advantages of using System Verilog over Verilog
for Verification, New Data Types in System Verilog 2 state and 4 state, User Defined Data types, Enumerated Data
types, Structures and Unions ,Wire Concatenation and Replication operators, Procedural Blocks , Tasks and
Functions, Examples for using tasks and functions ,Loops
UNIT IV:
Arrays: Packed and Unpacked Arrays, Array Querying functions, Initializing of arrays, Dynamic Arrays, Built in
methods and operators for dynamic arrays, Associative Arrays, Built in Methods and operators for Associative arrays,
Queues, Queue operators and methods , Lots of examples.
UNIT V:
Randomization and OOPs: Program block details, Timing regions, Static storage and Automatic Storage, Lab to
create test bench program for arbiter test, OOP, classes, class object and handles , class property, class methods ,
examples , Randomization.
17
Text Books:
1. J. Bhasker , “A Verilog Primer” Addison-Weseley Longman Singapore Pte Ltd.1992.
2. Verilog HDL Synthesis A Practical Primer by Bhasker J, 1st edition
3. Chris Spear, Gregory J Tumbush - System Verilog for verification - a guide to learning the test bench language
features - Springer, 2012
4. Verilog HDL :A Guide to Digital Design and Synthesis by SamirPalnitkar,2ndEdition
5. Vijayaraghavan, Srikanth, Ramanathan, Meyyappan "A Practical Guide for System Verilog Assertions",
Springer.
References:
1. System Verilog Language Reference Manual
2. Verification Methodology Manual for System Verilog- Janick Bergeron, Eduard Cerny, Alan Hunter, Andrew
Nightingale
3. IEEE Standard for System Verilog Unified Hardware Design, Specification, and Verification Language.
18
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M. Tech. (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
Elective -1 & 2 3 0 3
(VSD11) DIGITAL SYSTEM DESIGN
Prerequisites:
 Basic Concepts of Digital Systems.
Course Objectives:
 To learn the simplification of sequential machines
 To know design of data path circuits and control circuits.
 To study fault modeling and test pattern generation methods.
 To discuss the design of state and machine identification experiments.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Design and develop real time applications using programmable devices.
 Develop skills in modeling, analyzing faults and test pattern generation.
 Design state and machine identification circuits.
 Apply various techniques for designing circuits in electronics and communication systems.
UNIT I:
Minimization and Transformation of Sequential Machines: The Finite State Model – Capabilities and limitations of
FSM – State equivalence and machine minimization – Simplification of incompletely specified machines. Fundamental
mode model – Flow table – State reduction – Minimal closed covers – Races, Cycles and Hazards.
UNIT II:
Digital Design: Digital Design Using ROM’s, PAL’s and PLA’s , BCD Adder, 32 – bit adder, State graphs for control
circuits, Scoreboard and Controller, shift and add multiplier, Array multiplier, Keypad Scanner, Binary divider.
UNIT III:
SM Charts: State machine charts, Derivation of SM Charts, Realization of SM Chart, Implementation of Binary
Multiplier, dice game controller.
UNIT IV:
Fault Modeling , Test Pattern Generation: Logic Fault model – Fault detection & Redundancy, Fault diagnosis of
combinational circuits by conventional methods – Path sensitization techniques, Boolean Difference method – Kohavi
algorithm – D-algorithm, Random testing, Transition count testing, Signature analysis.
UNIT V:
Fault Diagnosis in Sequential Circuits: Circuit Test Approach, Transition Check approach- State identification and
Fault detection experiment, Machine identification, Design of fault detection experiment
Text Books:
1. Fundamentals of Logic Design – Charles H. Roth, 5th Ed., Cengage Learning.
2. Digital Systems Testing and Testable Design – Miron Abramovici, Melvin A.Breuer and Arthur D. Friedman-
John Wiley & Sons Inc.
3. Logic Design Theory – N. N. Biswas, PHI
4. Switching and Finite Automata Theory – Z. Kohavi , 2nd Ed., 2001, TMH
References:
1. Digital Design – Morris Mano, M.D.Ciletti, 4th Edition, PHI.
2. Digital Circuits and Logic Design – Samuel C. Lee , PHI
19
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
Elective-1&2 3 0 3
(VSD12) SCRIPTING LANGUAGES FOR VLSI
Pre-requisites:
 Java script, C programming languages.
Course Objectives:
 To explain the characteristics and uses of scripting languages.
 To describe the various PERL concepts used in VLSI design.
 To learn the concepts of TCL.
 To Interpret JavaScript, Python language, Python web system Design
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Interpret typical scripting languages for system applications
 Create software systems using scripting languages, including Perl and Python.
 Write server-side scripts using Perl and Python’s CGI facilities.
 Develop Java scripts, Python web systems
UNIT I:
Introduction to Scripts and Scripting: Characteristics and uses of scripting languages, Introduction to PERL,
Names and values, Variables and assignment, Scalar expressions, Control structures, Built-in functions, Collections of
Data,Working with arrays, Lists and hashes, Simple input and output, Strings, Patterns and regular expressions,
Subroutines, Scripts with arguments.
UNIT II:
Advanced PERL: Finer points of Looping, Subroutines, Using Pack and Unpack, Working with files, Navigating the
file system, Type globs, Eval, References, Data structures, Packages, Libraries and modules, Objects, Objects and
modules in action, Tied variables, Interfacing to the operating systems, Security issues.
UNIT III:
TCL: The TCL phenomena, Philosophy, Structure, Syntax, Parser, Variables and data in TCL, Control flow, Data
structures, Simple input/output, Procedures, Working with Strings, Patterns, Files and Pipes, Example code.
UNIT IV:
Advanced TCL: The eval, source, exec and up-level commands, Libraries and packages, Namespaces, Trapping
errors, Event-driven programs, Making applications 'Internet-aware', 'Nuts-and-bolts' internet programming, Security
issues, running untrusted code, The C interface.
UNIT V:
TK and JavaScript: Visual tool kits, Fundamental concepts of TK, TK by example, Events and bindings, Geometry
managers, PERL-TK. JavaScript – Object models, Design Philosophy, Versions of JavaScript, The Java Script core
language, Basic concepts of Pythan.
Python: Introduction to Python language, python-syntax, statements, functions, Built-in-functions and Methods,
Modules in python, Exception Handling, Integrated Web Applications in Python - Building Small, Efficient Python Web
Systems ,Web Application Framework.
Text Books:
1. The World of Scripting Languages- David Barron, Wiley Student Edition, 2010.
20
2. Practical Programming in Tcl and Tk - Brent Welch, Ken Jones and Jeff Hobbs., Fourth edition.
3. Java the Complete Reference - Herbert Schildt, 7th Edition, TMH.
4. Python Web Programming, Steve Holden and David Beazley, New Riders Publications
References:
1. TCL/TK: A Developer's Guide- Clif Flynt, 2003, Morgan Kaufmann SerieS.
2. TCL and the TK Toolkit- John Ousterhout, 2nd Edition, 2009, Kindel Edition.
3. TCL 8.5 Network Programming book- Wojciech Kocjan and Piotr Beltowski, Packt Publishing.
4. TCL/TK 8.5 Programming Cookbook- Bert Wheeler
5. Programming Python, M.Lutz,SPD
6. Core Python Programming, Chun, Pearson Education.
7. Guide to Programming with Python, M.Dawson, Cengage Learning
21
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem M. Tech (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
Elective –1& 2 3 0 3
(VSD13) FULL CUSTOM IC DESIGN AND FPGA ARCHITECURES
Pre-requisites:
 VLSI Design concepts, PLDs.
Course Objectives:
 To discuss the full custom IC Design flow.
 To understand standard cell design techniques.
 To learn various FPGA architectures based on programming technologies.
 To know performance analysis based on FPGA architectures.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Describe Full Custom CMOS VLSI fabrication Process.
 Analyze standard cell interconnect routing and layout design.
 Comprehend various FPGA architectures.
 Analyze logic block and speed performance.
UNIT I:
Introduction: Schematic fundamentals, Layout design, Introduction to CMOS VLSI manufacturing processes, Layers
and connectivity, Process design rules Significance of full custom IC design, layout design flows.
UNIT II:
Advanced techniques for specialized building blocks Standard cell libraries, Pad cells and Laser fuse cells, Advanced
techniques for building blocks, Power grid Clock signals and Interconnect routing, Interconnect layout design
UNIT III:
Field Programmable Gate Arrays: Organization of FPGAs, FPGA Programming Technologies, Programmable Logic
Block Architectures, Programmable Interconnects, Programmable I/O blocks in FPGAs, Dedicated Specialized
Components of FPGAs, Applications of FPGAs
UNIT IV:
Special Purpose Processors: Programming technologies, Commercially available FPGAs, Xilinx’s Vertex and
Spartan, Actel’s FPGA, Altera’s FLEX 10k.
UNIT V:
Logic Block Architectures: Logic block functionality versus area-efficiency, Logic block area and routing model,
Impact of logic block functionality on FPGA performance, Model for measuring delay.
Text Books:
1. CMOS IC Layout Concepts Methodologies and Tools, Dan Clein, Newnes, 2000.
2. The Art of Analog Layout, 2nd Edition, Ray Alan Hastings, Prentice Hall, 2006
3. Field Programmable Gate Arrays - John V. Oldfield, Richard C. Dorf, Wiley India.
4. Field Programmable Gate Arrays - John V. Oldfield, Richard C. Dorf, Wiley India.
References:
1. Field Programmable Gate Array Technology - Stephen M. Trimberger, Springer International Edition.
2. Field Programmable Gate Arrays - John V. Oldfield, Richard C. Dorf, Wiley India.
3. Michel John Sebastian Smith, Application Specific Integrated Circuits, Addison Wesley Professional, 2008.
22
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
Elective –1& 2 3 0 3
(ESS11) ADVANCED COMPUTER ARCHITECTURE
Pre-requisites:
 Concepts of Computer architecture and microprocessors
Course Objectives:
 Understand the different instruction set formats, RISC and CISC and various design issues for computers
 Discuss instruction level parallelism using software and hardware approaches.
 Explain multiprocessors and thread level parallelism.
 Describe the important concepts for interconnection networks and cluster.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Compare different types of instruction sets.
 Know the parallelism concepts used for increasing the efficiency of the computer and how it affects the cost
of the system.
 Examine the different types of networks, their interconnection and its components for interconnection.
 Analyze the different types of storage devices and its internal structure.
UNIT I:
Fundamentals of Computer Design: Fundamentals of Computer design, Changing faces of computing and task of
computer designer, Technology trends, Cost price and their trends, measuring and reporting performance,
Quantitative principles of computer design, Amdahl’s law. Instruction set principles and examples- Introduction,
classifying instruction set- memory addressing type and size of operands, Operations in the instruction set.
UNIT II:
Pipelines: Introduction, basic RISC instruction set, Simple implementation of RISC instruction set, Classic five stage
pipe lined RISC processor, Basic performance issues in pipelining, Pipeline hazards, Reducing pipeline branch
penalties.
Memory Hierarchy Design: Introduction, review of ABC of cache, Cache performance, Reducing cache miss penalty,
Virtual memory.
UNIT III:
Instruction Level Parallelism (ILP) - The Hardware Approach: Instruction-Level parallelism, Dynamic scheduling,
Dynamic scheduling using Tomasulo’s approach, Branch prediction, High performance instruction delivery- Hardware
based speculation.
ILP Software Approach: Basic compiler level techniques, Static branch prediction, VLIW approach, Exploiting ILP,
Parallelism at compile time, Cross cutting issues – Hardware verses Software.
UNIT IV:
Multi Processors and Thread Level Parallelism: Multi Processors and Thread level Parallelism- Introduction,
Characteristics of application domain, Systematic shared memory architecture, Distributed shared – Memory
architecture, Synchronization.
UNIT V:
Inter Connection and Networks: Introduction, Interconnection network media, Practical issues in interconnecting
networks, Examples of inter connection, Cluster, Designing of clusters.
Intel Architecture: Intel IA-64 ILP in embedded and mobile markets Fallacies and pit falls.
23
Text Books:
1. John L. Hennessy, David A. Patterson – Computer Architecture: A Quantitative Approach, 3rdEdition, an Imprint of
Elsevier.
References:
1. John P. Shen and Miikko H. Lipasti -, Modern Processor Design : Fundamentals of SuperScalar Processors
2. Computer Architecture and Parallel Processing – Kai Hwang, Faye A.Brigs., MC Graw Hill.
24
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem M. Tech (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
Elective –1& 2 3 0 3
(VSD14) DEVICE MODELLING
Pre-requisites:
 Preliminary knowledge of solid state devices and microwave measurement techniques.
 Analysis, complex calculus, statistics, differential equations, Fourier transformation, basics of mechanics and
electrodynamics.
Course Objectives:
 To Introduce students to the physics of semiconductors and the inner working of semiconductor devices
 To provide students the insight useful for understanding new semiconductor devices and technologies.
 To learn the physics behind the semiconductor devices and study the various models.
 To understand the BJT, MOSFET and other semiconductor devices from the device perspective.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Analyze and describe the characteristics of various diodes.
 Understand the development of complex device models.
 Implement various device models in spice simulation.
 Understand the fabrication techniques involved in VLSI applications
UNIT I:
Introduction to Semiconductor Physics: Review of Quantum Mechanics, Boltzman transport equation, Continuity
equation, Poisson equation.
Integrated Passive Devices: Types and Structures of resistors and capacitors in monolithic technology, Dependence
of model parameters on structures
UNIT II:
Integrated Diodes: Junction and Schottky diodes in monolithic technologies – Static and Dynamic behavior – Small
and large signal models – SPICE models
Integrated Bipolar Transistor: Types and structures in monolithic technologies – Basic model (Eber-Moll) – Gunmel
- Poon modeldynamic model, Parasitic effects – SPICE model –Parameter extraction
UNIT III:
Integrated MOS Transistor: NMOS and PMOS transistor – Threshold voltage – Threshold voltage equations – MOS
device equations – Basic DC equations second order effects – MOS models – small signal AC characteristics – MOS
FET SPICE model level 1, 2, 3 and 4
UNIT IV:
VLSI Fabrication Techniques: An overview of wafer fabrication, Wafer Processing – Oxidation – Patterning –
Diffusion – Ion Implantation – Deposition – Silicon gate nMOS process – CMOS processes – n-well- p-well- twin tub-
Silicon on insulator – CMOS process enhancements – Interconnects circuit elements
UNIT V:
Modeling of Hetero Junction Device: Band gap Engineering, Band gap Offset at abrupt Hetero Junction, Modified
current continuity equations, Hetero Junction bipolar transistors (HBTs), SiGe
25
Text Books:
1. Introduction to Semiconductor Materials and Devices – Tyagi M. S, 2008, John Wiley Student Edition.
2. Solid State Circuits – Ben G. Streetman, Prentice Hall, 1997
References:
1. Physics of Semiconductor Devices – Sze S. M, 2nd Edition, Mcgraw Hill, New York, 1981.
2. Introduction to Device Modeling and Circuit Simulation – Tor A. Fijedly, Wiley-Interscience, 1997.
3. Introduction to VLSI Systems: A Logic, Circuit and System Perspective – Ming-BO Lin, CRC Press, 2011
26
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem M. Tech (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
Elective –1& 2 3 0 3
(VSD15 ) VLSI SIGNAL PROCESSING
Pre-requisites:
 Knowledge on signals and systems, digital signal processing and basic VLSI systems
Course Objectives:
 To study various DSP algorithms and retiming concepts.
 To learn the concepts of folding and unfolding techniques.
 To understand the concepts of systolic architecture design and fast convolution methods.
 To describe various power consumption methods in VLSI.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Design the systems by using the appropriate DSP algorithms.
 Analyze and design the folding and unfolding techniques in real time application.
 Design the systems by using systolic architectures and various fast convolution algorithms.
 Evaluate the performance of various digital signal processors in terms of low power dissipation
UNIT I:
Introduction to DSP: Typical DSP algorithms, DSP algorithms benefits, Representation of DSP algorithms
Pipelining and Parallel Processing: Introduction, Pipelining of FIR Digital filters, Parallel Processing, Pipelining and
Parallel Processing for Low Power
Retiming: Introduction – Definitions and Properties – Solving System of Inequalities – Retiming Techniques
UNIT II
Folding and Unfolding:
Folding: Introduction -Folding Transform - Register minimization Techniques – Register minimization in folded
architectures – folding of multirate systems
Unfolding: Introduction – An Algorithm for Unfolding – Properties of Unfolding – critical Path, Unfolding and Retiming
– Applications of Unfolding
UNIT III
Systolic Architecture Design: Introduction – Systolic Array Design Methodology – FIR Systolic Arrays – Selection of
Scheduling Vector – Matrix Multiplication and 2D Systolic Array Design – Systolic Design for Space Representations
contain Delays
UNIT IV:
Fast Convolution: Introduction – Cook-Toom Algorithm – Winogard algorithm – Iterated Convolution – Cyclic
Convolution – Design of Fast Convolution algorithm by Inspection
UNIT V:
Low Power Design: Scaling Vs Power Consumption –Power Analysis, Power Reduction techniques – Power
Estimation Approaches Programmable DSP: Evaluation of Programmable Digital Signal Processors, DSP Processors
for Mobile and Wireless Communications, Processors for Multimedia Signal Processing
Text Books:
1. VLSI Digital Signal Processing- System Design and Implementation – Keshab K. Parhi, 1998, Wiley Inter
Science.
27
2. VLSI and Modern Signal Processing – Kung S. Y, H. J. While House, T. Kailath, 1985, Prentice Hall.
References:
1. Design of Analog – Digital VLSI Circuits for Telecommunications and Signal Processing – Jose E. France, Yannis
Tsividis, 1994, Prentice Hall.
2. VLSI Digital Signal Processing – Medisetti V. K, 1995, IEEE Press (NY), USA.
28
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem M. Tech (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
Open Elective –1 3 0 3
(ESS31) INTERNET OF THINGS
Pre-requisites:
 Programming knowledge in languages like Java, C/C++, Embedded C.
 Basic understanding on creating and using databases.
 Basic understanding on Wireless Communication and Networking.
Course Objectives:
 Understand about the new paradigm of objects interacting with people,
 Know about the new paradigm of objects interacting with information systems, and with other objects.
 Develop innovative applications of combinations of IoT technologies in real-life scenarios.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Identifying and describing different kinds of Internet-connected product concepts.
 Analyzing and designing prototypes models of Internet-connected products using various tools.
 Developing prototypes models of Internet-connected products using various tools
 Understanding the challenges and applying right techniques for user-interaction with connected-objects.
UNIT I:
Introduction: IoT overview, The IoT paradigm, Smart objects, IoT Platforms (like Aurdino, ARM Cortex, Raspberry Pi
/ Intel Galileo), Bits and atoms, Convergence of Technologies. Introduction to Internet and web networking basics:
HTTP, Rest, JSON, XML, Interfacing to Cloud, Harnessing mobile computing for IoT
.
UNIT II:
Introduction to Technologies Behind IoT: RFID, NFC, Mobil Data Technologies (GPRS, 3G, 4G), Wifi.
Powering the IoT using low power wireless technologies like Bluetooth smart technology, Zigbee.
WSN. RTLS + GPS, Agents and Multi-agent systems.
UNIT III:
IoT Architecture: Machine to Machine, Web of Things, IoT protocols (The Layering concepts , IoT Communication
Pattern, IoT protocol Architecture, The 6LoWPAN - IPv6 over Low power Wireless Personal Area Networks)
UNIT IV:
IoT Applications and Issues: Combination scenarios. Breaking assumptions. IoT in retail, IoT in healthcare, IoT in
manufacturing.
Prototyping Connected Objects: Open source prototype platforms, Arduino based internet communication.
Integrating and accessing Internet services, Rasberry PI / Beagle board based Gateways, Data Analysis Techniques.
UNIT V:
Case Studies and Guest lectures from Industry (for different verticals like Retail, Healthcare, Home Automation etc)
Text Books:
1. 6LoWPAN: The Wireless Embedded Internet, Zach Shelby, Carsten Bormann, Wiley
2. Internet of Things: Converging Technologies for Smart Environments and Integrated Ecosystems, Dr. Ovidiu
Vermesan, Dr. Peter Friess, River Publishers
3. Building the Internet of Things. Sara Cordoba, Wimer Hazenberg, Menno Huisman. BIS Publishers. 2011.
29
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
Open Elective -I 3 0 3
(VSD31) ADVANCED DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING
Pre-requisites:
 Knowledge of Digital filter design techniques, Digital Signal Processing techniques
Course Objectives:
 To provide in-depth knowledge on methods and techniques in digital filter design, Multi-rate digital
signal processing, Applications of Multirate Signal Processing
 To introduce spectrum estimation methods, Power spectrum estimation
 To enhance the awareness of different nonparametric and parametric methods
 To enhance the knowledge of sources of errors and its significance
Course outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Apply fundamental principles of signal processing to design multi rate DSP systems.
 Analyze and design optimum filters for better system performance.
 Understand methodologies and techniques of parametric and non-parametric methods for spectral estimation
 Analyze various limitations in implementation of DSPs.
UNIT I:
Review of DFT, FFT, IIR Filters, FIR Filters
Multirate Signal Processing: Introduction, Decimation by a factor D, Interpolation by a factor I, Sampling rate
conversion by a rational factor I/D, Multistage Implementation of Sampling Rate Conversion, Filter design &
Implementation for sampling rate conversion, Applications of Multirate Signal Processing.
UNIT II:
Non-Parametric Methods of Power Spectral Estimation: Estimation of spectra from finite duration observation of
signals, Non-parametric Methods: Bartlett, Welch & Blackman & Tukey methods, Comparison of all Non-Parametric
methods
UNIT III:
Linear Prediction: Forward and Backward Linear Prediction – Forward Linear Prediction, Backward Linear
Prediction, Optimum reflection coefficients for the Lattice Forward and Backward Predictors. Solution of the Normal
Equations: Levinson Durbin Algorithm, Schur Algorithm. Properties of Linear Prediction Filters.
UNIT IV:
Parametric Methods of Power Spectrum Estimation: Autocorrelation & Its Properties, Relation between auto
correlation & model parameters, AR Models - Yule-Waker & Burg Methods, MA & ARMA models for power spectrum
estimation.
UNIT V:
Finite Word Length Effects: Analysis of finite word length effects in Fixed-point DSP systems – Fixed, Floating Point
Arithmetic – ADC quantization noise & signal quality – Finite word length effect in IIR digital Filters – Finite word-length
effects
Text Books:
1. Digital Signal Processing: Principles, Algorithms & Applications - J.G.Proakis & D.G.Manolokis,4th ed., PHI.
2. Discrete Time signal processing - Alan V Oppenheim & Ronald W Schaffer, PHI.
3. DSP – A Pratical Approach – Emmanuel C.Ifeacher, Barrie. W. Jervis, 2 ed., Pearson Education.
30
References:
1. Modern spectral Estimation : Theory & Application – S. M .Kay, 1988, PHI.
2. Multirate Systems and Filter Banks – P.P.Vaidyanathan – Pearson Education
3. Digital Signal Processing – S.Salivahanan, A.Vallavaraj, C.Gnanapriya, 2000,TMH
31
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
Open Elective -I 3 0 3
(VSD32) SEMICONDUCTOR MEMORY DESIGN AND TESTING
Pre-requisites:
 Knowledge on digital electronics, memory organization and design for testability
Course Objectives:
 To study different types memory architectures and their applications.
 To learn Non volatile memory designs.
 To study fault modeling techniques for memory design.
 To understand the effects of radiation on semiconductor memories.
 To learn various high density packages.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Describe the applications various memory architectures.
 Analyze the need of non-volatile memories and their applications.
 Design the fault free memory systems by fault modeling techniques.
 Analyze and design the memory architectures by considering the radiation affects
UNIT I:
Random Access Memory Technologies: SRAM – SRAM Cell structures, MOS SRAM Architecture, MOS SRAM cell
and peripheral circuit operation, Bipolar SRAM technologies, SOI technology, Advanced SRAM architectures and
technologies, Application specific SRAMs, DRAM – DRAM technology development, CMOS DRAM, DRAM cell theory
and advanced cell structures, BICMOS DRAM, soft error failure in DRAM, Advanced DRAM design and architecture,
Application specific DRAM
UNIT II:
Non-Volatile Memories: Masked ROMs, High density ROM, PROM, Bipolar ROM, CMOS PROMS, EPROM, Floating
gate EPROM cell, One time programmable EPROM, EEPROM, EEPROM technology and architecture, Non-volatile
SRAM, Flash Memories (EPROM or EEPROM), advanced Flash memory architecture, NOR and NAND Flashes
UNIT III:
Memory Fault Modeling Testing and Memory Design for Testability and Fault Tolerance: RAM fault modeling,
Electrical testing, Pseudo Random testing, Megabit DRAM Testing, non-volatile memory modeling and testing, IDDQ
fault modeling and testing, Application specific memory testing, RAM fault modeling, BIST techniques for memory
UNIT IV:
Semiconductor Memory Reliability and Radiation Effects: General reliability issues RAM failure modes and
mechanism, Non-volatile memory reliability, reliability modeling and failure rate prediction, Design for Reliability,
Reliability Test Structures, Reliability Screening and qualification, Radiation effects, Single Event Phenomenon (SEP),
Radiation Hardening techniques, Radiation Hardening Process and Design Issues, Radiation Hardened Memory
characteristics, Radiation Hardness Assurance and Testing, Radiation Dosimetry, Water Level Radiation Testing and
Test structures
UNIT V:
Advanced Memory Technologies and High-density Memory Packing Technologies: Ferroelectric RAMs
(FRAMs), GaAs FRAMs, Analog memories, magneto resistive RAMs (MRAMs), Experimental memory devices,
32
Memory Hybrids and MCMs (2D), Memory Stacks and MCMs (3D), Memory MCM testing and reliability issues,
Memory cards, High Density Memory Packaging Future Directions
Text Books:
1. Semiconductor Memories Technology – Ashok K. Sharma, 2002, Wiley.
2. Advanced Semiconductor Memories – Architecture, Design and Applications - Ashok K. Sharma- 2002, Wiley.
3. Modern Semiconductor Devices for Integrated Circuits – Chenming C Hu, 1st Ed., Prentice Hall.
33
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
0 3 2
(VSD51) VLSI LABORATORY – I
Pre-requisites:
 Digital circuits.
Course Objectives:
 To learn Verilog HDL for modeling of combinational and sequential circuits.
 To know the Verification and functionality of designed circuits using functional simulators.
 To learn the Synthesis procedure of designed circuits.
 To learn the Implementation of designed circuits using various FPGA kits.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Gain knowledge in design of any digital circuits using CAD tools.
 Simulate combinational and sequential circuits using CAD tools.
 Synthesize digital circuits using CAD tools.
 Implement digital design on FPGA.
Design and implementation of the following digital circuits using Cadence / Mentor Graphics / Synopsys /
Equivalent CAD tools. The designs will include Gate-level and Hierarchical design using VERILOG and System
Verilog.
VLSI Front End Design Programs:
Programming can be done using Modelsim simulator. Synthesize the designs using Xilinx ISE.
Implement the all experiments on Xilinx/Altera/Cypress/equivalent based FPGA kits.
1. Design of combinational circuits using EDA Tools.
2. Design of sequential circuits using EDA Tools
3. Design of 4-bit binary, BCD counters using EDA Tools ( synchronous/ asynchronous reset)
4. Design of a N- bit Register using EDA Tools
5. Design of Sequence Detector using EDA Tools (Finite State Machine- Mealy and Moore Machines).
6. Design of 4- Bit Multiplier, Divider using EDA Tools.
7. Design of ALU using EDA Tools
8. Implement the digital circuit on FPGA - Case study
34
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
0 6 4
(VSD61) MINI PROJECT - I
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Identify and formulate problem statement
 Design applications using EDA tools
 To communicate effectively
 Implement applications using Xilinx FPGA kits
 Present technical report
35
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
3 1 4
(VSD04) LOW POWER VLSI DESIGN
Pre- requisites:
 Knowledge on basic VLSI Design and Digital electronics circuits
Course Objectives:
 To study the concepts on different levels of power estimation and optimization techniques.
 To learn various Low-Power design approaches.
 To design the different low power combinational and sequential circuits
 To understand the design procedure of the low voltage and low power Memories.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Understand the different power dissipation sources in VLSI circuits.
 Apply the Low-Power design Approaches in voltage scaling and Switched Capacitance minimization
 Design and analyze the VLSI circuits using different Low-Power Design Approaches.
 Analyze the performance of Low-Power and Low Voltage Memories.
UNIT I:
Fundamentals: Need for Low Power Circuit Design, Sources of Power Dissipation – Switching Power Dissipation,
Short Circuit Power Dissipation, Leakage Power Dissipation, Glitching Power Dissipation, Short Channel Effects –
Drain Induced Barrier Lowering and Punch Through, Surface Scattering, Velocity Saturation, Impact Ionization, Hot
Electron Effect.
UNIT II:
Low-Power Design Approaches:
Low-Power Design through Voltage Scaling: VTCMOS circuits, MTCMOS circuits, Architectural
Level Approach –Pipelining and Parallel Processing Approaches.
Switched Capacitance Minimization Approaches: System Level Measures, Circuit Level Measures, Mask level
Measures.
UNIT III:
Low-Voltage Low-Power Adders: Introduction, Standard Adder Cells, CMOS Adder’s Architectures – Ripple Carry
Adders, Carry Look- Ahead Adders, Carry Select Adders, Carry Save Adders, Low-Voltage Low-Power Design
Techniques –Trends of Technology and Power Supply Voltage, Low-Voltage Low-Power Logic Styles.
UNIT IV:
Low-Voltage Low-Power Multipliers: Introduction, Overview of Multiplication, Types of Multiplier Architectures,
Braun Multiplier, Baugh- Wooley Multiplier, Booth Multiplier, Introduction to Wallace Tree Multiplier.
UNIT V:
Low-Voltage Low-Power Memories: Basics of ROM, Low-Power ROM Technology, Future Trend and Development
of ROMs, Basics of SRAM, Memory Cell, Precharge and Equalization Circuit, Low-Power SRAM Technologies, Basics
of DRAM, Self-Refresh Circuit, Future Trend and Development of DRAM.
Text Books:
1. CMOS Digital Integrated Circuits – Analysis and Design – Sung-Mo Kang, Yusuf Leblebici, TMH, 2011.
2. Low-Voltage, Low-Power VLSI Subsystems – Kiat-Seng Yeo, Kaushik Roy, TMH Professional Engineering.
36
References:
1. Introduction to VLSI Systems: A Logic, Circuit and System Perspective – Ming-BO Lin, CRC Press, 2011
2. Low Power CMOS Design – Anantha Chandrakasan, IEEE Press/Wiley International, 1998.
3. Low Power CMOS VLSI Circuit Design – Kaushik Roy, Sharat C. Prasad, John Wiley & Sons, 2000.
4. Practical Low Power Digital VLSI Design – Gary K. Yeap, Kluwer Academic Press, 2002.
5. Low Power CMOS VLSI Circuit Design – A. Bellamour, M. I. Elamasri, Kluwer Academic Press, 1995.
6. Leakage in Nanometer CMOS Technologies – Siva G. Narendran, Anatha Chandrakasan, Springer, 2005.
37
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem M. Tech (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
3 1 4
(VSD05) CMOS ANALOG AND MIXED SIGNAL IC DESIGN
Pre- requisites:
 Knowledge on Design of various analog circuits.
 Knowledge on different types of comparators, A/D and D/A converters.
Course Objectives:
 To learn the design of CMOS single stage amplifiers.
 To know the fundamentals and design of CMOS Operational Amplifiers.
 To learn the design of CMOS comparators.
 To discuss the design Architectures of data converters.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Analyze the design of single stage amplifiers and its practical applications.
 Understand the design issues and challenges involved in op-amp design.
 Learn and compare different types of data converter architectures.
 Design of Nyquist Rate A/D Converters and Oversampling Converters.
UNIT I:
CMOS Single Stage Amplifiers: Common source amplifier with different loads, source follower, Common gate
amplifier, Cascode Amplifiers, Differential Amplifiers
UNIT II:
CMOS Operational Amplifiers: Design of CMOS Op Amps, Compensation of Op Amps, Design of Two-Stage Op
Amps, Cascode Op Amps
Comparators: Basic CMOS comparator design, Characterization of Comparator, Latched comparators, Clocked
Comparator, Two-Stage, Open-Loop Comparators, Analog multipliers.
UNIT III:
Data Converter Fundamentals: DC and dynamic specifications, Quantization noise, Nyquist rate D/A converters-
Decoder based converters, Binary-Scaled converters, Thermometer-code converters, Hybrid converters
UNIT IV:
Nyquist Rate A/D Converters: Successive approximation converters, Flash converter, Two-step A/D converters,
Interpolating A/D converters, Folding A/D converters, Pipelined A/D converters, Time-interleaved converters.
UNIT V:
Oversampling Converters: Noise shaping modulators, Decimating filters and interpolating filters, Higher order
modulators, Delta sigma modulators with multibit quantizers, Delta sigma D/A
Text Books:
1. Design of Analog CMOS Integrated Circuits- Behzad Razavi, TMH Edition, 2002
2. CMOS Analog Circuit Design - Philip E. Allen and Douglas R. Holberg, Oxford University Press, International
Second Edition / Indian Edition, 2010.
3. Analog Integrated Circuit Design- David A. Johns, Ken Martin, Wiley Student Edition, 2013
38
References:
1. CMOS Integrated Analog-to- Digital and Digital-to-Analog converters-Rudy Van De Plassche, Kluwer
Academic Publishers, 2003
2. Understanding Delta-Sigma Data converters-Richard Schreier, Wiley Interscience, 2005.
3. CMOS Mixed-Signal Circuit Design - R. Jacob Baker, Wiley Interscience, 2009.
39
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
3 1 4
(VSD06) DESIGN FOR TESTABILITY
Pre-requisites:
 Concepts of VLSI design, digital design concepts.
Course Objectives:
 To understand the concepts of digital and analog VLSI Testing,
 To learn Fault modeling, Test generation and fault simulation algorithms.
 To study SCOAP testability Measures, AD HOC DFT methods and scan design.
 To learn various BIST and boundary scan techniques.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Understand the concepts of testing and fault modeling.
 Apply the simulation algorithms for design verification and test validation for digital circuits.
 Learn various testability measures in digital circuits.
 Analyze boundary scan system configuration.
UNIT I:
Introduction to Testing: Testing Philosophy, Role of Testing, Digital and Analog VLSI Testing, VLSI Technology
Trends affecting Testing, Types of Testing, Fault Modeling: Defects, Errors and Faults, Functional Versus Structural
Testing, Levels of Fault Models, Single Stuck-at Fault.
UNIT II:
Logic and Fault Simulation: Simulation for Design Verification and Test Evaluation, Modeling Circuits for Simulation,
Algorithms for True-value Simulation, Algorithms for Fault Simulation, ATPG.
UNIT III:
Testability Measures: SCOAP Controllability and Observability, High Level Testability Measures, Digital DFT and
Scan Design: Ad-Hoc DFT Methods, Scan Design, Partial-Scan Design, Variations of Scan.
UNIT IV:
Built-In Self-Test: The Economic Case for BIST, Random Logic BIST: Definitions, BIST Process, Pattern Generation,
Response Compaction, Built-In Logic Block Observers, Test-Per-Clock, Test-Per-Scan BIST Systems, Circular Self
Test Path System, Memory BIST, Delay Fault BIST.
UNIT V:
Boundary Scan Standard: Motivation, System Configuration with Boundary Scan: TAP Controller and Port,
Boundary Scan Test Instructions, Pin Constraints of the Standard, Boundary Scan Description Language: BDSL
Description Components, Pin Descriptions.
Text Books:
1. Essentials of Electronic Testing for Digital, Memory and Mixed Signal VLSI Circuits - M.L. Bushnell, V. D.
Agrawal, Kluwer Academic Pulishers.
2. Digital Systems and Testable Design - M. Abramovici, M.A.Breuer and A.D Friedman, Jaico Publishing House.
References:
1. Parag K.Lala “Digital System Design using Programmable Logic Devices” Prentice Hall, NJ ,1994
2. Digital Circuits Testing and Testability - P.K. Lala, Academic Press.
40
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year II Sem M. Tech. (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
Elective -3 & 4 3 0 3
(ESS21) SOC AND NOC ARCHITECTURE
Pre-requisites:
 Digital Electronics/Systems.
 Electronic components and circuits.
Course Objectives:
 To learn System on chip fundamentals, their applications.
 To gain knowledge on NOC design.
 To learn the various computation models of SOC and NOCs
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Ability to analyze and Design a system architecture for key performance indicators like Power, Perfomance,
Area.
 To learn the basic concepts of NoC design by studying the topologies, router design and MPSoC styles.
 To learn sample routing algorithms on a NoC with deadlock and livelock avoidance.
 To understand the role of system-level design and performance metrics in choosing a SoC/NoC design.
UNIT I:
Introduction to SoC Design. Multiprocessor SoC and Network on Chip. Low-Power SoC Design.
UNIT II:
System Design: Co-Design using System Model, Validation and Verification, Hardware/Software Codesign
Application Analysis, Synthesis.
UNIT III:
Communication System: Separation of Coputation and Communication. Communication-Centric SoC Design,
Communication Synthesis. Network-Based Design, Network on Chip, Architecture of NoC
UNIT IV:
NOC Design: Design of NoC, NoC Topology, Energy Exploration, NoC Protocol Design Low-Power Design for NoC:
Low-Power Signaling, On-Chip Serialization, Low-Power Clocking, Low-Power Channel Coding, Low-Power Switch,
Low-Power Network on Chip Protocol.
UNIT V:
Example SOC/NOC Designs: Real Chip Implementation, Industrial Implementations, Intel’s Tera-FLOP 80-Core
NoC, Intel’s Scalable Communication Architecture, Design case studies.
Text Books:
1. Hoi-jun yoo, Kangmin Lee, Jun Kyoung kim, “Low power NoC for high performance SoC desing”,CRC press,
2008.
2. Vijay K. Madisetti Chonlameth Arpikanondt, “A Platform-Centric Approach to System-on-Chip (SOC) Design”,
Springer, 2005.
41
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
Elective -3 & 4 3 0 3
(VSD21) SPEECH SIGNAL PROCESSING
Pre-requisites:
 Signals and Systems
 Digital Signal Processing

Course Objectives:
 To study the mechanisms of speech production, understand time domain and frequency domain
representation of speech signal.
 To study various models used for speech processing (analysis, recognition, synthesis)
 To discuss and provide basic hands-on experiance on implementstion of algorithms, models used in feature
extraction and in building speech systems.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Manipulate and visualize speech signals.
 Analyze speech signals
 Design algorithms for extracting parameters from the speech signal.
 Build a simple speech recognition system using state of the art tools.
UNIT I:
Introduction to speech processing and Speech production mechanism. Classification of vowels and consonants.
Sound and its relation with Syllable, Language, Letter and Word
UNIT II:
Basics of digital signal processing, Nature of speech signal, Digital Models for the speech signal, Equivalent
representations of signal and systems.
UNIT III:
Time Domain Models for Speech Processing: Feature extraction in time domain - Energy, Zero Crossing, Pitch /
Fundamental frequency, Usefulness of Pitch and its Countour.
Frequency Domain Models for Speech Processing: Fourier Transform and its signficance, Speech and its Fourier
Transform including DFT & FFT, Formants. Feature extraction: Spectogram, Cepstrum, MEL Freq Analysis, Mel-
Frequency Cepstral coefficient.
UNIT IV:
Basics of Speech Recognition: Linear Predictive Coding models for Speech recognition, Vector Quantization,
Gaussian Mixer Models. Hidden Markov Models, Dynamic Programming, Speech Enhancement, Estimating the
parameters, Practical issues.
UNIT V:
Methods for Speech Synthesis. Approaches for speaker recognition.
Text Books:
1. Fundamentals of speech recognition, L.R.Rabiner and B.H Juang, Pearson LPE (1993).
2. Digital processing of speech signals, . L.R.Rabiner and R.W.Schafer, Pearson LPE (1993).
42
References:
1. Spoken Language Processing: A Guide to Theory, Algorithm and System Development by Xeudong Huang, Alex
Acero, and Hsiao-Wuen Hon.
2. Discrete-Time Speech Signal Processing – Principles and Practice, Thomas F Quatieri, Pearson Education,04.
3. Speech Recognition, Claudio Becchetti and Lucio Prina Ricotti John Wiley
43
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
Elective -3 & 4 3 0 3
(VSD22) IMAGE AND VIDEO PROCESSING
Pre-requisites:
 Digital Signal Processing
Course Objectives:
 Learn the fundamentals of both image and video processing
 Describe basic image and video filtering operations
 Understand fundamentals of image and video compression
 Know principles and methods of motion/optical flow estimation
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Understand the concepts of image and video processing including image/video representation, image /video
filtering, image/video compression.
 Know various basic operations on image/video.
 Apply different transform techniques on image/video
 Implement a complete image processing system to achieve a specific task, and analyze and interpret the
results of this system.
UNIT I:
Fundamentals Steps of Image Processing and Image Transforms: Basic steps of image processing system
sampling and quantization of an image – basic relationship between pixels.
Image transforms: 2D-Discrete Fourier Transform, Discrete Cosine transform(DCT), Wavelet Transform: Continous
Wavelet Transforms, Discrete Wavelet Transforms
UNIT II:
Image Processing Techniques: Image Enhancement
Spatial Domain Methods: Histogram Processing, Fundamentals of spatial filtering, Smoothing spatial filters,
Sharpening spatial filters
Frequency Domain Methods: Basics of filtering in frequency domain, image smoothing, image sharpening, selective
filtering.
Image Segmentation: Segmentation concepts, Point, Line and Edge detection, Thresholding, Region based
segmentation
UNIT III:
Image Compression: Image Compression Fundamentals – Coding Redundancy, Spatial and Temporal
Redundancy, Compression models: Lossy & Lossless, Huffman coding, Arithmetic coding, LZW coding, Run Length
coding, Bit plane coding, Transform coding, Predictive coding, wavelet coding, JPEG standards.
UNIT IV:
Basic Steps of Video Processing: Analog video, Digital video. Time- varying Image Formation models: Three –
dimensional motion models, Geometric Image Formation, Photometric Image Formation, Sampling of video signals,
Filtering operations.
UNIT V:
2-D Motion Estimation: Optical flow, General methodologies, Pixel based motion estimation, Block matching
algorithm, Mesh-based motion estimation , Global motion estimation, Region based motion estimation, Multiresolution
44
motion estimation, Waveform based coding, Block based transform coding, Predictive coding. Application of motion
estimation in video coding.
Text Books:
1. Digital Image processing – Gonzaleze and woods,3rd ed., Pearson
2. Video processing and communication – Yao Wang, Joern Ostermann and Ya-Qin Zhang, I Ed Prentice Hall
References:
1. Digital video processing – M. Tekalp, Prentice Hall International
45
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
ELECTIVE -3 & 4 3 0 3
(ESS22) HARDWARE - SOFTWARE CO-DESIGN
Pre-requisites:
Concepts of
 Embedded System Design
 VLSI Technology and Design
 RTOS & Embedded C
Course Objectives:
 Describe an embedded system design flow from specification to physical realization
 Explain a system development holistically
 Identify contemporary development techniques
 Devise new theories, techniques, and tools in design, implementation and testing
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Gain knowledge of contemporary issues and algorithms used.
 Understand the use of modern hardware/software tools for building prototypes of embedded systems
 Know the interfacing components, different verification techniques and tools.
 Examine different specification languages and integrate embedded hardware, software and operating
systems to meet the functional requirements of embedded applications.
UNIT I:
Co- Design Issues: Co- Design Models, Architectures, Languages, A Generic Co-design Methodology.
Co- Synthesis Algorithms: Hardware software synthesis algorithms: hardware – software partitioning distributed
system cosynthesis.
UNIT II:
Prototyping and Emulation: Prototyping and emulation techniques, prototyping and emulation environments, future
developments in emulation and prototyping.
Target Architectures: Architecture Specialization techniques, System Communication infrastructure, Target
Architecture and Application System classes, Architecture for control dominated systems (8051-Architectures for High
performance control), Architecture for Data dominated systems (ADSP21060, TMS320C60),Mixed Systems.
UNIT III:
Compilation Techniques and Tools for Embedded Processor Architectures: Modern embedded architectures,
embedded software development needs, compilation technologies, practical consideration in a compiler development
environment.
UNIT IV:
Design Specification and Verification: Design, co-design, the co-design computational model, concurrency
coordinating concurrent computations, interfacing components, design verification, implementation verification,
verification tools, interface verification
UNIT V:
Languages for System – Level Specification and Design-I: System – level specification, design representation for
system level synthesis, system level specification languages
46
Languages for System – Level Specification and Design-II: Heterogeneous specifications and multi language co-
simulation, the cosyma system and lycos system.
Text Books:
1. Hardware / Software Co- Design Principles and Practice – Jorgen Staunstrup, Wayne Wolf –2009, Springer.
2. Hardware / Software Co- Design - Giovanni De Micheli, Mariagiovanna Sami, 2002, Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Reference:
1. A Practical Introduction to Hardware/Software Co-design -Patrick R. Schaumont - 2010 – Springer
47
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
Elective -3 & 4 3 0 3
(VSD23) ALGORITHMS FOR VLSI DESIGN AUTOMATION
Pre-requisites:
 Logic Design, VLSI Design, data structures and computer programming.
Course Objectives:
 To understand the VLSI design methodologies and VLSI design Automation tools.
 To emphasize the physical design problems and partitioning, floor planning, placement and routing for VLSI
circuits.
 To analyze modeling simulation and synthesis of VLSI circuits.
 To understand physical design automation for FPGA’s and MCM’s.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will able to
 Apply fundamental knowledge of mathematics for the analysis of CAD problems in VLSI circuits.
 Learn optimization algorithms and floor-planning, placement and routing problems for VLSI circuits.
 Understand the concepts of Modeling, simulation , Binary Decision Diagrams, analyze the concepts
of high level synthesis
 Familiarize with the critical challenges in the physical design of VLSI circuits using FPGA’S and MCM
technologies
UNIT I:
Preliminaries: Introduction to Design Methodologies, Design Automation tools, Algorithmic Graph Theory,
Computational complexity, Tractable and Intractable problems.
UNIT II:
General Purpose Methods for Combinational Optimization: Backtracking, Branch and Bound, Dynamic
Programming, Integer Linear Programming, Local Search, Simulated Annealing, Tabu search, Genetic Algorithms.
UNIT III:
Layout Compaction, Placement, Floor Planning and Routing: Problems, Concepts and Algorithms.
Modelling and Simulation: Gate Level Modelling and Simulation, Switch level Modelling and Simulation.
UNIT IV:
Logic Synthesis and Verification: Basic issues and Terminology, Binary-Decision diagrams, Two-Level logic
Synthesis
High-Level Synthesis: Hardware Models, Internal representation of the input Algorithm, Allocation, Assignment and
Scheduling, Some Scheduling Algorithms, Some aspects of Assignment problem, High-level Transformations.
UNIT V:
Physical Design Automation of FPGAs: FPGA technologies, Physical Design cycle for FPGAs, partitioning and
Routing for segmented and staggered Models.
Physical Design Automation of MCMs: MCM technologies, MCM physical design cycle, Partitioning, Placement -
Chip Array based and Full Custom Approaches, Routing – Maze routing, Multiple stage routing, Topologic routing,
Integrated Pin – Distribution and routing, Routing and Programmable MCMs.
Text Books:
48
1. Algorithms for VLSI Design Automation, S.H.Gerez, 1999, WILEY Student Edition, John wiley & Sons (Asia) Pvt.
Ltd.
2. Algorithms for VLSI Physical Design Automation – Naveed Sherwani, 3rd Ed., 2005, Springer International Edition.
References:
1. Computer Aided Logical Design with Emphasis on VLSI – Hill & Peterson, 1993, Wiley.
2. Modern VLSI Design:Systems on silicon – Wayne Wolf, 2nd ed., 1998, Pearson Education Asia.
49
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
Elective -3 & 4 3 0 3
(VSD24) OPTIMIZATION TECHNIQUES IN VLSI DESIGN
Pre-requisites:
 Low power VLSI Design, device modeling and CAD for VLSI
Course Objectives:
 To Understand various statistical modeling methodologies.
 To Analyze different estimation techniques.
 To Learn concepts of optimization algorithms
 To Compare performance of systems in terms of power .
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Apply the appropriate design modeling practices for emerging IC technologies.
 Design the systems by using statistical analysis methods.
 Design the low power digital systems by applying appropriate partitioning and Floor planning algorithms.
 Design the real time applications using optimization techniques like Genetic Algorithms
UNIT I:
Statistical Modeling: Modeling sources of variations, Monte Carlo techniques, Process variation modeling- Pelgrom's
model, Principle component based modeling, Quad tree based modeling, Performance modeling-Response surface
methodology, delay modeling, interconnect delay models.
UNIT II:
Statistical Performance, Power and Yield Analysis: Statistical timing analysis, parameter space techniques,
Bayesian networks Leakage models, High level statistical analysis, Gate level statistical analysis, dynamic power,
leakage power, temperature and power supply variations, High level yield estimation and gate level yield estimation.
UNIT III:
Convex Optimization: Convex sets, convex functions, geometric programming, trade-off and sensitivity analysis,
Generalized geometric programming, geometric programming applied to digital circuit gate sizing, Floor planning, wire
sizing, Approximation and fitting- Monomial fitting, Maxmonomial fitting, Posynomial fitting.
UNIT IV:
Genetic Algorithm: Introduction, GA Technology-Steady State Algorithm-Fitness Scaling-Inversion GA for VLSI
Design, Layout and Test automation- partitioning-automatic placement, routing technology, Mapping for FPGA-
Automatic test generation- Partitioning algorithm Taxonomy-Multi-way Partitioning Hybrid genetic-encoding-local
improvement-WDFR Comparison of CAS-Standard cell placement-GASP algorithm-unified algorithm.
UNIT V:
GA Routing Procedures and Power Estimation: Global routing-FPGA technology mapping-circuit generation-test
generation in a GA frame work-test generation procedures, Power estimation-application of GA-Standard cell
placement-GA for ATG-problem encoding- fitness function-GA Vs Conventional algorithm.
Text Books:
1. Statistical Analysis and Optimization for VLSI: Timing and Power - Ashish Srivastava, Dennis Sylvester, David
Blaauw, Springer, 2005.
50
2. Genetic Algorithm for VLSI Design, Layout and Test Automation - Pinaki Mazumder, E.Mrudnick, Prentice
Hall,1998.
3. Convex Optimization - Stephen Boyd, Lieven Vandenberghe, Cambridge University Press, 2004.
51
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
Open Elective -II 3 0 3
(ESS41) CLOUD COMPUTING
Course Objectives:
 Understand cloud computing paradigm, recognize its various forms
 Get a clear understanding of Cloud Computing fundamentals and its importance to various organizations.
 Master the concepts of IaaS, PaaS, SaaS, Public and Private clouds.
 Understand AWS and learn to develop applications in AWS.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Articulate the main concepts, key technologies, strengths, and limitations of cloud computing
 Identify the architecture and infrastructure of cloud computing, including SaaS, PaaS, IaaS, public cloud,
private cloud, hybrid cloud, etc.
 Explain the core issues of cloud computing such as security, privacy, and interoperability.
 Identify problems, and explain, analyze, and evaluate various cloud computing solutions
UNIT I:
Systems Modelling, Clustering and Virtualization
Distributed System Models and Enabling Technologies, Computer Clusters for Scalable Parallel Computing, Virtual
Machines and Virtualization of Clusters and Data centres.
UNIT II:
Foundations: Introduction to Cloud Computing, Migrating into a Cloud, Enriching the ‘Integration as a Service’
Paradigm for the Cloud Era, the Enterprise Cloud Computing Paradigm.
UNIT III:
Infrastructure as a Service (IAAS) & Platform and Software as a Service (PAAS / SAAS): Virtual machines
provisioning and Migration services, On the Management of Virtual machines for Cloud Infrastructures, Enhancing
Cloud Computing Environments using a cluster as a Service, Secure Distributed Data Storage in Cloud Computing.
Aneka, Comet Cloud, T-Systems’, Workflow Engine for Clouds, Understanding Scientific Applications for Cloud
Environments.
UNIT IV:
Monitoring, Management and Applications: An Architecture for Federated Cloud Computing, SLA Management in
Cloud Computing, Performance Prediction for HPC on Clouds, Best Practices in Architecting Cloud Applications in the
AWS cloud, Building Content Delivery networks using Clouds, Resource Cloud Mashups.
UNIT V:
Governance and Case Studies: Organizational Readiness and Change management in the Cloud age, Data
Security in the Cloud, Legal Issues in Cloud computing, Achieving Production Readiness for Cloud Services.
Text Books:
1. Cloud Computing: Principles and Paradigms by Rajkumar Buyya, James Broberg and Andrzej M. Goscinski,
Wiley, 2011.
2. Distributed and Cloud Computing , Kai Hwang, Geoffery C.Fox, Jack J.Dongarra, Elsevier, 2012.
3. Cloud Computing : A Practical Approach, Anthony T.Velte, Toby J.Velte, Robert Elsenpeter, Tata McGraw Hill,
rp2011
52
References:
1. Cloud Computing: A Practical Approach, Anthony T.Velte, Toby J.Velte, Robert Elsenpeter, Tata McGraw Hill,
rp2011.
2. Enterprise Cloud Computing, Gautam Shroff, Cambridge University Press, 2010.
3. Cloud Computing: Implementation, Management and Security, John W. Rittinghouse, James F.Ransome, CRC
Press, rp2012.
4. Cloud Application Architectures: Building Applications and Infrastructure in the Cloud, George Reese, O’Reilly,
SPD, rp2011.
5. Cloud Security and Privacy: An Enterprise Perspective on Risks and Compliance, Tim Mather, Subra
Kumaraswamy, Shahed Latif, O’Reilly, SPD, rp2011
53
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
Open Elective-2 3 0 3
(ESS42) SOFT COMPUTING TECHNIQUES
Pre-requisites:
Concepts of
 Statistical methods
 Optimization techniques
Course Objectives:
 To familiarize with soft computing concepts.
 To introduce the ideas of Neural networks, fuzzy logic and use of heuristics based on human experience.
 To introduce the concepts of Genetic algorithm and its applications to soft computing using some
applications.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Identify and describe soft computing techniques and their roles in building intelligent machines
 Apply neural networks to pattern classification and regression problems.
 Analyze the fuzzy logic and reasoning to handle uncertainty and solve engineering problems.
 Design the combinatorial optimization problems using genetic algorithm
UNIT I:
Introduction: Approaches to intelligent control, Architecture for intelligent control, Symbolic reasoning system,Rule-
based systems, the AI approach, Knowledge representation - Expert systems.
UNIT II:
Artificial Neural Networks: Concept of Artificial Neural Networks and its basic mathematical model, McCulloch-Pitts
neuron model, simple perceptron, Adaline and Madaline, Feed-forward Multilayer Perceptron, Learning and Training
the neural network, Data Processing: Scaling, Fourier transformation, principal-component analysis and wavelet
transformations, Hopfield network, Self-organizing network and Recurrent network, Neural Network based controller.
UNIT III:
Fuzzy Logic System: Introduction to crisp sets and fuzzy sets, basic fuzzy set operation and approximate reasoning,
Introduction to fuzzy logic modeling and control, Fuzzification, inferencing and defuzzification, Fuzzy knowledge and
rule bases, Fuzzy modeling and control schemes for nonlinear systems, Self organizing fuzzy logic control, Fuzzy
logic control for nonlinear time delay system.
UNIT IV:
Genetic Algorithm: Basic concept of Genetic algorithm and detail algorithmic steps, Adjustment of free parameters,
Solution of typical control problems using genetic algorithm, Concept on some other search techniques like Tabu
search and Ant-colony search techniques for solving optimization problems.
UNIT V:
Applications: GA application to power system optimization problem, Case studies: Identification and control of linear
and nonlinear dynamic systems using MATLAB-Neural Network toolbox, Stability analysis of Neural-Network
interconnection systems, Implementation of fuzzy logic controller using MATLAB fuzzy-logic toolbox, Stability analysis
of fuzzy control systems.
54
Text Books:
1. Introduction to Artificial Neural Systems - Jacek.M.Zurada, Jaico Publishing House,1999.
2. Neural Networks and Fuzzy Systems - Kosko, B., Prentice-Hall of India Pvt. Ltd., 1994.
References:
1. Fuzzy Sets, Uncertainty and Information - Klir G.J. &Folger T.A., Prentice-Hall of India Pvt.Ltd., 1993.
2. Fuzzy Set Theory and Its Applications - Zimmerman H.J. Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1994.
3. Introduction to Fuzzy Control - Driankov, Hellendroon, Narosa Publishers.
4. Artificial Neural Networks - Dr. B. Yagananarayana, 1999, PHI, New Delhi.
5. Elements of Artificial Neural Networks - KishanMehrotra, Chelkuri K. Mohan,SanjayRanka, Penram International.
6. Artificial Neural Network –Simon Haykin, 2nd Ed., Pearson Education.
7. Introduction Neural Networks Using MATLAB 6.0 - S.N. Shivanandam, S. Sumati, S. N.Deepa,1/e, TMH, New
Delhi.
55
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
Open Elective-2 3 0 3
( VSD41) SOFTWARE DEFINED RADIO
Pre-requisites:
 Communication fundamentals
Course Objectives:
 To understand the SDR and its architecture
 To understand the system design and signal conversion techniques
 To understand signal processing techniques
 To understand the transmitter and receiver architecture and working principle.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Conceptualize the SDR and implementation details
 Identify the blocks of SDR for a specific application
 Recognize the challenges in the implementation of SDR
 Analyze the transmitter and receiver architectures in SDR
UNIT I:
Introduction: Software Defined Radio – A Traditional Hardware Radio Architecture – Signal Processing Hardware
History – Software Defined Radio Project Complexity.
A Basic Software Defined Radio Architecture: Introduction – 2G Radio Architectures- Hybrid Radio Architecture-
Basic Software Defined Radio Block Diagram- System Level Functioning Partitioning-Digital Frequency Conversion
Partitioning.
UNIT II:
RF System Design: Introduction- Noise and Channel Capacity- Link Budget- Receiver Requirements- Multicarrier
Power Amplifiers- Signal Processing Capacity Tradeoff.
Analog-to-Digital and Digital-to-Analog Conversion: Introduction – Digital Conversion Fundamentals- Sample
Rate- Bandpass Sampling- Oversampling- Antialias Filtering – Quantization – ADC Techniques-Successive
Approximation- Figure of Merit-DACs- DAC Noise Budget- ADC Noise Budget.
UNIT III:
Digital Frequency Up- and Down Converters: Introduction- Frequency Converter Fundamentals- Digital NCO-
Digital Mixers- Digital Filters- Halfband Filters- CIC Filters- Decimation, Interpolation, and Multirate Processing-DUCs -
Cascading Digital Converters and Digital Frequency Converters.
Signal Processing Hardware Components: Introduction- SDR Requirements for Processing Power- DSPs- DSP
Devices- DSP Compilers- Reconfigurable Processors- Adaptive Computing Machine- FPGAs
UNIT IV:
Software Architecture and Components: Introduction- Major Software Architecture Choices – Hardware – Specific
Software Architecture- Software Standards for Software Radio-Software Design Patterns- Component Choices- Real
Time Operating Systems- High Level Software Languages- Hardware Languages.
UNIT V:
Smart Antennas for Software Radio: Introduction- 3G smart Antenna Requirements- Phased Antenna Array Theory-
Applying Software Radio Principles to Antenna Systems- Smart Antenna Architectures- Optimum Combining/ Adaptive
Arrays- DOA Arrays- Beam Forming for CDMA- Downlink Beam Forming.
56
Text Books:
1. Paul Burns, Software Defined Radio for 3G, Artech House, 2002.
2. Tony J Rouphael, RF and DSP for SDR, Elsevier Newnes Press, 2008
References:
1. Jouko Vanakka, Digital Synthesizers and Transmitter for Software Radio, Springer, 2005.
2. P Kenington, RF and Baseband Techniques for Software Defined Radio, Artech House, 2005.
3. Software Radio: A Modern Approach to Radio Engineering by Jeffrey H. Reed, Prentice Hall PTR; May 2002
57
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M. Tech (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
0 3 2
(VSD52) VLSI LABORATORY – II
Pre-requisites:
 VLSI Design concepts.
Course Objectives:
 To study the functionality of digital circuits using SPICE.
 To learn the schematic design procedure using Design Architect tool.
 To draw layouts using IC station tool.
 To learn the design of digital circuits using Synopsys tools.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Design Digital circuits using CAD tools.
 Gain knowledge in verification of CMOS schematic designs.
 Comprehend knowledge in physical design and verification
 Understand timing, power analysis and other characteristics of CMOS circuits.
Note: All the following digital circuits are to be designed and implemented using Cadence / Mentor Graphics /
Synopsys / Equivalent CAD tools.
The design analysis will include study of circuit optimization with respect to area, performance and/or power, Layouts,
DRC , LVS, Extraction of parasitic and back annotation, modifications in circuit parameters , DC/transient analysis .
VLSI Back End Design programs:
1.Introduction to SPICE simulation and coding of CMOS digital circuits
2. Schematic design, power estimation, delay estimation using transient and DC analysis.
of the following:
 CMOS inverter
 CMOS NOR/ NAND gates
 CMOS XOR and MUX gates
 CMOS half adder and full adder
 Static, Dynamic logic circuits (register cell)
 Latch
 Pass transistor
 Transmission gate
3. Layout design and analysis of combinational circuits.
58
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M. Tech (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
0 6 4
(VSD62) MINI PROJECT - II
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Identify and formulate problem statement
 Design applications using EDA tools
 Communicate effectively
 Implement applications using Xilinx FPGA kits
 Present technical report
59
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
II Year – I Sem. M. Tech (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
0 0 8
(VSD71) INTERNSHIP/ DISSERTATION PHASE-1
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Identify and formulate real world problems
 Analyze and design using contemporary technologies
 To communicate effectively
 Apply advanced programming techniques for its implementation
 Present technical report
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
II Year – I Sem. M. Tech (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
0 0 4
(VSD63) COMPREHENSIVE VIVA-VOCE
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Comprehend the fundamentals of VLSI systems and its allied fields
 Analyze and apply VLSI systems concepts in its allied fields
 Communicate effectively
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
II Year – II Sem. M. Tech (VLSI System Design) L T/P C
0 0 18
(VSD72) DISSERTATION PHASE-2
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
 Identify and formulate real world problems
 Analyze and design using contemporary technologies
 To communicate effectively
 Apply advanced programming techniques for its implementation
 Present technical report
60
