SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/mtechsyl/r15mams.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE
AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
M. T ech.
ADVANCED MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2015-2016)
VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous Institute, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
NBA Accreditation for CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT B.Tech. Programmes
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi, Affiliated to JNTUH
Recognized as “College with Potential for Excellence” by UGC
Vignana Jyothi Nagar, Pragathi Nagar, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500 090, TS, India.
Telephone No: 040-2304 2758/59/60, Fax: 040-23042761
E-mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
1
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
Academic Regulations - M.Tech. Programme
(Applicable for the batches admitted from the academic year 2015-2016)
1. Introduction
Academic programmes of the institute are governed by rules and regulations as approved
by the Academic Council of the institute.
These academic rules and regulations are effective from the academic year 2015-16, for
the students admitted into two year post graduate programme offered by the college
leading to Master of Technology (M. Tech.) degree in different specializations offered by
the departments of Civil Engineering, Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Mechanical
Engineering, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Computer Science and
Engineering, Information Technology and Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering.
The M.Tech. degree of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad shall be
conferred on students who are admitted to the programme after fulfilling all the
requirements for the award of the degree.
1.1 Eligibility for Admissions
Admission to the above program shall be made subject to the eligibility and qualifications
prescribed from time to time. Admissions shall be made on the basis of GATE Rank and
merit rank obtained at an Entrance Test conducted by the TSSCHE or as decided by
TSSCHE subject to reservations prescribed by the university/ State Government from time
to time.
2. Programmes of study
The following two year M.Tech. degree programmes of study are offered by the
departments at VNR VJIET.
Department Specializations
1. Advanced Manufacturing Systems
ME 2. Automation
3. CAD/CAM
1. Highway Engineering
CE 2. Structural Engineering
3 Geotechnical Engineering
1. Power Electronics
EEE
2. Power Systems
1. Software Engineering
CSE
2. Computer Science and Engineering
1. VLSI System Design
ECE
2. Embedded Systems
EIE Electronics and Instrumentation
IT Computer Networks and Information Security
2
• ‘ENGLISH’ language is used as the medium of instruction in all the above
programmes.
3. Attendance requirements
Each academic year shall be divided into two semesters, each of 90 Instructions days,
excluding examination, evaluation, declaration of results etc.
3.1 A student shall be eligible to appear for the semester end examinations in subject if he /
she acquire a minimum of 75% of attendance in that subject.
3.2 Shortage of attendance up to 10% in any subject (i.e., attendance of 65% and above
and below 75%) in a semester may be condoned by the Institute Academic
Committee based on the rules prescribed by the Academic Council of the Institute
from time to time.
3.3 A student shall get minimum required attendance in at least three (03) theory subjects
in the present semester to get promoted to the next semester. In order to qualify for the
award of the M.Tech. degree, the student shall complete all the academic requirements of
the subjects, as per the course structure.
3.4 Shortage of attendance below 65% shall in NO case be condoned.
3.5 A stipulated fee shall be payable towards condonation of shortage of attendance.
3.6 In case the student secures less than the required attendance in any subject(s), he shall
not be permitted to appear for the semester end examination in that subject(s). He shall re-
register for the subject when offered next.
4. Evaluation
i. The performance of a student in each semester shall be evaluated subject–wise with a
maximum of 100 marks for theory and 100 marks for practical subjects. In addition,
mini-project and comprehensive viva-voce shall be evaluated for 100 marks
respectively.
ii. For theory subjects, the distribution shall be 40 marks for mid-term evaluation and 60
marks for the semester end examination.
❖ Mid-Term Evaluation (40 M):
Mid-term evaluation consists of mid-term examination (30 M) and assignment/objective
test/ case study/course project (10 M).
➢ Mid-term examination (30 M):
• For theory subjects, two mid-term examinations shall be conducted in each semester
as per the academic calendar. Each mid-term examination shall be evaluated for 30
marks.
• Pattern of Mid-term examination:
3 X 10M = 30 M (three internal choice questions one from each UNIT shall be given,
the student has to answer ONE question from each UNIT)
• There shall be TWO mid-term examinations for each subject and the average of two
mid-term examinations shall be considered for calculating final mid-term examination
marks in that subject.
3
➢ Assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project (10 M):
• Two assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project shall be given to the
students covering the syllabus of first mid-term and second mid-term examinations
respectively and evaluated for 10 marks each.
• The first assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project shall be submitted
before first mid-term examination and the second one shall be submitted before
second mid-term examination.
• The average of 2 assignments shall be taken as final assignment marks.
iii. For practical subjects, there shall be a continuous evaluation during the semester for
40 marks and 60 marks for semester end examination. Out of the 40 marks, day-to-
day work in the laboratory shall be evaluated for 10 marks, and 15 marks for
practical examination and 15 marks for laboratory record.
❖ Semester End Examination (60 M):
(a) Theory Courses
Question paper pattern for semester end examination (60 Marks)
• Paper shall consist of 05 questions of 10 marks each. (05X12M = 60 M)
• There shall be 01 question from each unit with internal choice.
(b) Practical Courses
Each laboratory course shall be evaluated for 60 marks. The semester end examination
shall be conducted by two examiners, one Internal and other external concerned with the
subject of the same / other department / Industry. The evaluation shall be as per the
standard format.
4.1. Evaluation of Mini-Project: There shall be two presentations during the first year, one in
each semester. For mini-project 1 and mini-project 2, a student under the supervision of a
faculty member, shall collect the literature on a topic, critically review the literature, carry
out the mini-project, submit it to the department in a report form and shall make an oral
presentation before the departmental Project Review Committee (PRC). The Departmental
PRC consists of Head of the Department, supervisor and one senior faculty member of the
department. For each mini-project there shall be only internal evaluation of 100 marks. A
student has to secure a minimum of 50% to be declared successful.
4.2. There shall be a comprehensive viva-voce in II year I semester. The comprehensive viva-
Voce shall be conducted by a committee consisting of Head of the Department and two
senior faculty members of the department. The comprehensive viva-voce is aimed to
assess the students’ understanding in various subjects studied during the M.Tech.
programme of study. The comprehensive viva-voce shall be evaluated for 100 marks by
the committee. There are no internal marks for the comprehensive viva-voce. A student
must secure a minimum of 50% to be declared successful.
4.3. A student shall be deemed to have secured the minimum academic requirement in a
subject if he secures a minimum of 40% of marks in the semester end examination and a
minimum aggregate of 50% of the total marks in the semester end examination and mid-
term evaluation taken together.
4
4.4. A student shall be given one chance to re-register, after completion of the course work, for
each subject, provided the internal marks secured by a student are less than 50% and he
has failed in the semester end examination. In such a case student may re-register for the
subject(s) and secure required minimum attendance. Attendance in the re-registered
subject(s) has to be calculated separately to become eligible to write the end examination
in the re-registered subject(s). Re-registration for the subjects is allowed only if those
particular re-registration subjects are the hindrance for the award of Degree. Re-
registration is allowed in this case provided the student doesn’t have any subject(s) yet to
pass other than the re-registration subjects where the internal marks are less than 50%
with prior permission.
4.5. Laboratory examination for M.Tech. courses must be conducted with two examiners, one
of them being laboratory class teacher and second examiner shall be a teacher of same
specialization either external or a teacher from the same department other than the teacher
who conducted laboratory classes for that batch.
5. Evaluation of Project / Dissertation Work.
5.1 Registration of Project Work: A student shall be permitted to register for the project work
after satisfying the attendance requirement of all the subjects (theory and practical
subjects).
5.2 A Project Review Committee (PRC) shall be constituted with at least four members namely
HOD, PG coordinator of the M.Tech. programme, project supervisor and one senior faculty
member of same specialization.
5.3 After getting permission as per 5.1, a student has to submit, in consultation with the project
supervisor, the title, objective and plan of action of his project work to the Departmental
PRC for its approval. Only after obtaining the approval of PRC, the student can initiate the
project work.
5.4 If a student wishes to change his supervisor or topic of the project he can do so with the
approval of PRC. However, the committee shall examine whether the change of
topic/supervisor leads to a major change of his initial plans of project proposal. If so, the
date of registration for the project work shall be the date of change of supervisor or topic
as the case may be.
5.5 Internal evaluation of the project shall be on the basis of the seminars (Project reviews)
conducted during the second year by the PRC. A student shall submit draft report in a
spiral bound copy form.
5.6 The work on the project shall be initiated in the beginning of the second year and the
duration of project is for two semesters. A student is permitted to submit Project work only
after successful completion of theory and practical course with the approval of PRC not
earlier than 240 days from the date of registration of the project work. For the approval of
PRC the student shall submit the draft copy of thesis to the Head of the Department
(Through project supervisor and PG coordinator) and shall make an oral presentation
before the PRC.
The student is eligible to submit project work if he has published at least one paper
covering 70% of the project work and presented his project work in Show and Tell activity.
5.7 After approval of PRC, every student has to submit three copies of the project dissertation
certified by the supervisor to the Department.
5
5.8 The dissertation shall be adjudicated by one examiner selected by the Chief
Superintendent. For this, HOD shall submit a panel of 3/ 5 examiners, who are eminent in
that field with the help of the concerned guide.
5.9 If the report of the examiner is not favourable, the student shall revise and resubmit the
Dissertation, within the time frame as prescribed by PRC. If the report of the examiner is
unfavourable again, the dissertation shall be summarily rejected.
5.10 If the report of the examiner is favorable, viva-voce examination shall be conducted by a
board consisting of the project supervisor, Head of the Department and the external
examiner who adjudicated the Thesis. The Board shall jointly report students work as:
A. Excellent
B. Good
C. Satisfactory
D. Unsatisfactory
Head of the Department shall coordinate and make arrangements for the conduct of viva-
voce examination. The student has to secure any one of the grades as Excellent, Good or
Satisfactory on his dissertation and viva-voce. If the report of the viva-voce is
unsatisfactory, the student shall retake the viva-voce examination after three months,
making modifications as suggested. If he fails to get a satisfactory report at the second
viva-voce examination, he has to re-register for the project work as mentioned in clause
5.1. However, the student may select a new guide or new topic or both with the approval of
the PRC and submit the project dissertation with a minimum of 240 days from the date of
re-registration. Of course, this shall not prejudice the clause 6.1 below.
6. Award of Degree and Class
A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the M.Tech. degree, if he pursues a
course of study and complete it successfully for not less than two academic years and
not more than four academic years.
6.1 A student, who fails to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award of the degree
within four academic years from the year of his admission, for any reason whatsoever,
shall forfeit his seat in M.Tech. Course.
6.2 A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 84 credits and
earn 84 credits. Marks obtained in all 86 credits shall be considered for the calculation of
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA).
6.3 CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points in two year M.Tech. degree
programme is as follows:
• Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the total marks obtained in mid-term
evaluation and semester end examinations.
6
• Grades and Grade points are assigned as given below.
Grade Points(GP)
Marks Obtained Grade Description of Grade
Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 B Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 C Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 D Pass 6.00
<50 F Fail
Not Appeared the Exam(s) N Absent
The student is eligible for the award of the M.Tech degree with the class as mentioned in the
following table.
CGPA Class
>= 8.0 First Class with Distinction
>= 7.0 and <8.0 First Class
>= 6.0 and < 7.0 Second Class
➢ Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
• The performance of each student at the end of the each semester shall be indicated in
terms of SGPA. The SGPA shall be calculated as below:
Where Ci = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘i’
Gi = Grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to the subject ‘i’
i = 1,2,…..p represent the number of subjects in a particular semester
Note: SGPA is calculated and awarded for the students who pass all the courses in a
semester.
7
➢ Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA):
The CGPA of a student for the entire programme shall be calculated as given below:
• Assessment of the overall performance of a student shall be obtained by calculating
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA), which is weighted average of the grade points
obtained in all subjects during the course of study.
Where Cj = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘j’
Gj = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to that subject ‘j’
j = 1,2,….m represent the number of subjects of the entire program.
• Grade lower than D in any subject shall not be considered for CGPA calculation. The
CGPA shall be awarded only when the student acquires the required number of credits
prescribed for the program.
➢ Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
7. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to the Institute, or if any case of indiscipline is pending
against him, the result of the student may be withheld and he shall not be allowed into the
next higher semester. The award or issue of the provisional certificate and the degree may
also be withheld in such cases. This delay shall not prejudice clauses Nos.6.0 and 6.1.
8. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or any other
academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and when they become
eligible. They have to take up Equivalent subjects, as substitute subjects in place of
repeated subjects as decided by the Chairman of the BoS of the respective departments.
He/She shall be admitted under the regulation of the batch in which he/she is readmitted.
9. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each semester shall be 90 instruction days.
8
10. General
10.1 The academic regulations should be read as a whole for purpose of any interpretation.
10.2 In case of any doubt or ambiguity in the interpretation of the above rules, the decision of
the Principal is final.
10.3 The Institute may change or amend the academic regulations and syllabi at any time and
the changes and amendments made shall be applicable to all the students with effect from
the date notified by the Institute.
10.4 Wherever the words he, him or his occur, they shall also include she, her and hers.
11. Supplementary Examination
Supplementary examinations shall be conducted along with regular semester end
examinations. (During even semester regular examinations, supplementary examinations
of odd Semester and during odd semester regular examinations, supplementary
examinations of even semester shall be conducted).
9
Vision
To develop into a Centre of Excellence in Education and Research in
the field of Mechanical Engineering, consistent with the contemporary
and future needs of the country
Mission
➢ To impart high quality education by using modern pedagogical tools
so as to make the students technically competent in their chosen
fields and socially responsible
➢ To inculcate quality research by developing linkages with Industry
and R & D organizations in India & abroad
10
M.TECH. PROGRAMME OBJECTIVES:
• To prepare students for successful careers in their domain that meets the need of Indian and
global/multinational organizations.
• To provide a strong foundation in the chosen specialization that enables students to visualize,
analyze and solve domain specific mechanical engineering problems.
• To inculcate in students a zeal and attitude for comprehending state of the art advancements
and undertake further work in the chosen specialization.
• To prepare students for undertaking research in the chosen specialization and to function
effectively in teams/groups.
• To provide students with an academic environment that fosters excellence leadership, ethical
codes and guidelines and develops for life-long learning for a successful professional career.
M.TECH. PROGRAMME OUTCOMES:
• Engineering Knowledge: Graduates will demonstrate in-depth knowledge of manufacturing
technologies and systems, mathematics, sciences, essential computational
techniques/procedures that help in problem solving. Graduates will be able to assimilate the
emerging developments in the field and enhance their understanding.
• Problem Analysis: Graduates will be able to demonstrate ability to identify, critically analyze,
conceptualize, formulate and solve manufacturing technology problems in the specific area
with due consideration for safety, environmental, cultural and societal concerns.
• Design and Development of solutions: Graduates will demonstrate ability to design a
component, a process or a system in manufacturing or inter/multi-disciplinary region by
following research methodology while arriving at a solution working in engineering and science
laboratories as teams, involving review of literature, prepare a model, conduct experiments,
analyze and interpret data.
• Modern tool usage: Graduates will demonstrate skills to use modern engineering tools,
equipments, processes, state-of-the-art software tools for modeling and analysis while solving
problems and drawing inferences in the specialized areas with due regard to their limitations
and applicability.
• Individual and Team Work: Graduates will demonstrate ability to work as an individual as well
as a team member/lead and play his role appropriately in the group with a proper
understanding of group dynamics, contribute positively to collaborative multidisciplinary
scientific research with positive attitude, open mindedness and objectivity for furtherance of
individuals and groups’ learning.
• Ethics: Graduates will demonstrate knowledge, understanding and application of Professional
and Ethical responsibilities, intellectual integrity and human values in all the dealings.
• Communication: Graduates will demonstrate ability to communicate in both verbal and written
form and present complex engineering activities confidently and effectively.
• Project Management and Finance: Graduates will demonstrate ability to administer and
regulate projects with emphasis on time management, financial management and personnel
management to both individuals own work and the teams collective work.
• The engineer and society: Graduates will demonstrate a broad understanding of impact of
engineering solutions on economy, environment and society while arriving at solutions so as to
avoid ill-effects and are sustainable.
• Life Long Learning: Graduates will demonstrate recognition of the need and engage in life-
long learning, keep abreast with regard to nuances in the chosen field to improve knowledge,
proficiency and competence on a continuous basis.
• Self and Reflective Learning: Graduates will demonstrate ability to learn, observe, reflect and
evaluate ones’ own activities for identifying, critically examining and rectifying the mistakes
without outside help and thus self-learn.
11
M.TECH. (ADVANCED MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS):
Advanced Manufacturing
Degree: M.Tech. Specialization:
Systems
2 Years 2 semesters – Course work
Duration: Details:
(4 semesters) 2 semesters – Project
Mode: Full-time Year of starting: 2003
Intake: 18 Regulations: R15
➢ Overview of the programme:
Advanced Manufacturing Systems is concerned with the effective utilization of innovative
technology, management and integration to achieve superior performance and improve the
products and processes. In order to achieve world class manufacturing performance, it is
important to have knowledge of all the manufacturing systems and its key components. This
two year (four semesters) programme is designed to address the challenges of modern
manufacturing and enterprise systems. The programme has been running for the last 10 years
and is regularly updated in line with the subject developments and industrial practices. It covers
a wide range of subjects- both compulsory and electives - that enable to understand and deal
with complexities of modern industrial environments.
➢ Objectives:
• To provide a thorough knowledge and understanding of specific advanced and emerging
manufacturing technologies.
• To provide a comprehensive foundation required to exploit the potential of advanced
manufacturing systems.
• To encourage work on real industrial problems, giving confidence in the ideas underlying
manufacturing and the practicalities of implementing these ideas.
➢ Outcomes:
To enable the students
• to engage in design, development and research involving manufacturing technology
• to analyse and investigate practical problems and
• work in the management of manufacturing systems
➢ Opportunities:
The passed out students of this programmes have been well received by the manufacturing
industry as design engineers, manufacturing engineers, production engineers, engineering
managers, systems engineers, or research and development engineers. They are placed in
various companies like Tata Consultancy Services, Mahindra Satyam, GE, Hindustan
Aeronautics Limited, Bharat Dynamics Limited, HBL Nife, Denison Hydraulics-Veljan etc.
12
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
M. Tech. (ADVANCED MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS)
(R15 Regulation)
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Code Group Subject Name L T/P Credit
AMS01 Automation in Manufacturing 3 1 4
AMS02 Core Special Manufacturing Processes 3 1 4
AMS03 Precision Engineering 3 1 4
AMS 11 Product Data Management 3 0
AMS 12 Elective – I Materials Technology 3 0
AMS 13 & Design for Manufacturing & Assembly 3 0
3 + 3
AMS 14 Elective – II Additive Manufacturing Processes 3 0
AMS 15 Basket Mechatronics 3 0
AMS 16 Theory of Elasticity & Plasticity 3 0
Design and Manufacturing of MEMS and Micro
AUT32
Open Elective Systems
AMS32 3 0 3
– I Quality and Reliability Engineering
AMS33
Neural Network & Fuzzy Systems
Manufacturing Simulation & Precision
AMS51 Lab 0 3 2
Engineering lab
AMS61 Mini Project - I 0 0 4
Total 18 6 27
13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
M. Tech. (ADVANCED MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS)
(R15 Regulation)
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Code Group Subject Name L T/P Credit
CAD02 Computer Aided Manufacturing 3 1 4
CAD03 Core Rapid Prototyping 3 1 4
AMS04 Product Design & Development Strategies 3 1 4
AMS 21 Quality Engineering in Manufacturing 3 0
AMS 22 Elective – III Tool Design 3 0
AMS 23 & Theory of Metal Cutting 3 0
3 + 3
AMS 24 Elective – IV Intelligent Manufacturing Systems 3 0
AMS 25 Basket Finite Element Method 3 0
AMS 26 Industrial Robotics 3 0
AMS41 Industrial Safety Management
Open Elective
CAD41 Concurrent Engineering 3 0 3
– II
AMS42 Design of experiments
AMS52 Lab CAD/CAM Lab 0 3 2
AMS62 Mini Project - II 0 0 4
Total 18 6 27
14
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
M. Tech. (ADVANCED MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS)
(R15 Regulation)
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Group Subject Name L P Credit
AMS63 Comprehensive Viva Voce 0 0 4
AMS71 Internship/Dissertation Phase – I 0 0 8
Total 12
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Subject Code Group Subject Name L P Credit
AMS72 Dissertation Phase – II 0 0 18
Total 18
15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M. Tech. (AMS, Automation & CAD/CAM) L P C
3 1 4
(AMS01) AUTOMATION IN MANUFACTURING
Course Prerequisites: Industrial engineering and Manufacturing technology concepts.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the basic principles of automation and tool transfer, implementation of automated
flow line.
• Understand design aspects and analysis of material handling system.
• Understand ways of improving line balance and solving line balancing problems.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Implement concepts of a productive system in automation.
• Apply the concepts of automated flow lines and design technologies.
• Apply it in material handling systems for balancing assembly lines.
UNIT I:
Fundamentals of Manufacturing Automation: Basic Principles of automation, Types of automated systems, Degrees of
automation, Automation - reasons, Production operations and automation strategies, Plant Layout, Production concepts and
mathematical models, Design the parts for automation, Automatic loading Systems.
UNIT II:
High Volume Production Systems: Automated flow lines, Methods of work flow, Transport transfer mechanisms, buffer
storage, Control functions, Automation for machining operations, Design and fabrication considerations.
UNIT III:
Analysis of Automated Flow Lines: Analysis of transfer lines without storage, Partial automation, Automated flow lines with
storage buffers, Implementation of automatic flow lines, Line balancing problems, Considerations in assembly line design.
UNIT IV:
Assembly Systems and Line Balance: Manual assembly lines, Line balancing problem, Methods of line balancing, Ways to
improve line balancing, Flexible manual assembly lines, Automated assembly systems, Analysis of multi station assembly.
Manufacturing Cells, Automated Cells, Analysis of Single Station Cells.
UNIT V:
Automated Material Handling: Types of equipment and functions, Design and analysis of material handling system,
Conveyor system, Automated guided vehicle system, Components operation, Types, Design of automated guided vehicles
and applications, Automated storage and Retrieval systems - Types, Basic components and Applications, Design for
Automated Assembly, Communication Systems in Manufacturing.
Text Books & References:
1. Mikell P. Groover, “Automation, Production Systems and CIM”, PHI Pvt., Ltd., 1998
2. P. Radha Krishnan & S. Subrahamanyarn and Raju, “CAD/CAM/CIM”, New Age International Publishers, 2003.
3. Singh, “System Approach to Computer Integrated Design and Manufacturing”, John Wiley 1996.
16
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing Systems) L P C
3 1 4
(AMS02) SPECIAL MANUFACTURING PROCESS
Course Prerequisites: Manufacturing technology, Non conventional machining processes.
Course Objectives:
• Integrate Modern manufacturing operations, including their capabilities, limitations and how to
design for lower cost.
• Understand the relationship between customer desires, functional requirements, product
materials, product design and manufacturing process selection.
• Understand manufacturing of circuit boards and rapid prototyping.
• Grade Micro and Nanofabrication processes.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Identify the requirement of special manufacturing technique and use the suitable one.
• Appreciate special manufacturing techniques and suggest them for suitable applications.
considering desires and functional requirements.
• Apply Micro and Nanofabrication processes.
• Demonstrate the Fused Deposition Method.
UNIT I:
Surface Treatment: Scope, Cleaners, Methods of cleaning, Surface coating types, and ceramic
and organic methods of coating, Economics of coating. Electro forming, Physical Vapor Deposition, Chemical Vapor
Deposition, Thermal Spraying, Ion Implantation, Diffusion coating, Diamond coating and Cladding.
UNIT II:
Processing of Ceramics: Applications, Characteristics, Classification, Processing of Particulate Ceramics, Powder
preparations, Consolidation, Drying, Sintering, Hot compaction, Area of Application, Finishing of Ceramics.
Processing of Composites: Composite Layers, Particulate and Fiber Reinforced Composites, Elastomers, Reinforced
Plastics, MMC, CMC, Polymer matrix Composites.
UNIT III:
Processing of Integrated Circuits: Overview of IC Processing - Processing Sequence, Clean Rooms, Silicon Processing-
Production of Electronic Grade Silicon, Crystal Growing, Shaping of Silicon into Wafers, Lithography- Photolithography, Other
Lithography Techniques.
Micro Fabrication Processes - Silicon Layer Processes, LIGA Process, Other Micro fabrication Processes
Nano Fabrication Processes - Top-Down Processing Approaches, Bottom-Up Processing Approaches
UNIT IV:
Advanced Manufacturing: E-Manufacturing, High Speed Machining, Micromachining, Nanomachining and Additive
manufacturing.
UNIT V:
Prototyping: Need of Prototyping, Process of Prototyping and its Advantages, Rapid Prototyping and its working principles,
Methods, Stereo-Lithography, Laser Smiting, Fused Deposition Method, Applications and Limitations.
Text Books & References:
1. Manufacturing Engineering and Technology, I Kalpak Jian / Adisson Wesley, 1995.
2. Process and Materials of Manufacturing / R. A. Lindburg / 1th edition, PHI 1990.
3. Fundamentals of modern manufacturing, 4th ed/ Mikell P. Groover,/ John Wiley & Sons, Inc
4. Advanced Machining Processes / V.K.Jain / Allied Publications.
5. Introduction to Manufacturing Processes / John A Schey I McGraw Hill.
17
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (AMS, Automation & CAD/CAM) L P C
3 1 4
(AMS03) PRECISION ENGINEERING
Course Prerequisites: Accuracy and tolerances, geometric dimensioning, machine drawing and production
engineering.
Course Objectives:
• Asses the machine tool accuracy and types of errors, datum features, tolerance zone
conversion, process capability and surface finish.
• understand the tolerance charting techniques.
• Explain the fundamentals of nanotechnology and nanometer accuracy.
• Understand measuring system processing – Mechanical and optical measuring systems.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Apply fundamental knowledge of machine tool accuracy and geometric dimensioning for
Components.
• Apply the concept of process capability while choosing the machine.
• Decide on measuring system for inspection components.
• Apply nanotechnology and nanometer accuracy
UNIT I:
Concepts of Accuracy: Introduction - Concept of Accuracy of Machine Tools - Spindle and Displacement Accuracies - Accuracy of
Numerical Control Systems - Errors due to Numerical Interpolation, Displacement Measurement System and Velocity tags
Geometric Dimensioning and Tolerancing: Tolerance Zone Conversions - Surfaces, features, Features of Size, Datum
Features - Datum Oddly Configured and Curved Surfaces as Datum Features, Equalizing Datum’s - Datum Feature of
Representation - Form controls, Orientation Controls - Logical Approach Tolerancing.
UNIT II:
Datum Systems: Design of freedom, Grouped Datum System - different types, two and three mutually perpendicular grouped
datum planes; Grouped datum system with spigot and recess, pin and hole; Grouped Datum system with spigot and recess pair
and tongue - slot pair - Computation of Transnational and rotational accuracy, Geometric analysis and application.
UNIT III:
Tolerance Analysis: Process Capability, Mean, Variance, Skewness, kurtosis, Process Capability Metrics, Cp, Cpk, Cost
aspects, Feature Tolerances, Geometric Tolerances. Surface finish, Review of relationship between attainable tolerance grades
and different machining process, Cumulative effect of tolerances sure fit law, normal law and truncated normal law.
UNIT IV:
Tolerance Charting Techniques: Operation Sequence for typical shaft type of components, Preparation of Process drawings for
different operations, Tolerance worksheets and centrally analysis, Examples, Design features to facilitate machining; Datum
features - functional and manufacturing Components design - Machining Considerations, Redesign for manufactured,
Examples.
UNIT V:
Fundamentals of Nanotechnology: Systems of nanometer accuracies, Mechanism of metal Processing, Nano physical
processing of atomic bit units, Nanotechnology and Electrochemical atomic bit processing.
Measuring Systems Processing: In processing or in-situ measurement of position of processing point, Post process and on-
machine measurement of dimensional features and surface, Mechanical and optical measuring systems.
Text Books:
1. Precision Engineering in Manufacturing/Murthy R.L/New Age International (P) Limited, 1996
2. Geometric Dimensioning and Tolerancing/ James D. Meadows / Marcel Dekker Inc. 1995
References:
1. Nano Technology / Norio Taniguchi / Oxford University Press, 1996.
2. Engineering Design - A systematic Approach / Matousek / Blackie & Son Ltd., London.
18
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing Systems) L P C
Elective – I & II 3 0 3
(AMS11) PRODUCT DATA MANAGEMENT
Course Prerequisites: Production process, CAD, CAM.
Course Objectives:
• Understand process management, plan, and product development.
• Understand about Robust design and Integration of CAE, CAD and CAM tools along with the
principles of rapid prototype.
• Understand Product Development Management process.
Course Outcomes:
Student would be able to:
• Develop a sequence for developing a product in a company.
• Understand the concepts of robust design, Rapid prototyping.
• Understand the concept of Product development.
UNIT I:
Introduction: Need for IPPD, Strategic importance of product development, Integration of customer designer material
supplier and process planner, Competitor and Customer, Behavior analysis, Understanding customer, Promoting customer
understanding, Involve customer in development and managing requirements, Organization – Process management and
improvement, Plan and establish product specification.
UNIT II:
Concept Generation and Selection: Task, Structured approaches, Clarification, Search, Extemally and internally, Explore
systematically, Reflect on the solutions and process, Concept selection, Methodology, Benefits
Product Architecture: Implications, Product change, Variety, Component standardization, Product performance,
Manufacturability.
UNIT III:
Product Development Management: Establishing the architecture, Creation, Clustering, Geometric layout development,
Fundamental and incidental interactions related system level design issues, Secondary systems, Architecture of the chunks,
Creating detailed interface specifications.
Industrial Design: Integrate process design - Managing costs - Robust design - Integrating CAE, CAD, CAM tools -
simulating product performance and manufacturing 'processing electronically - Need for industrial design - impact - design
process.
UNIT IV:
Investigation of customer needs - conceptualization - refinement - management of the industrial design process - technology
driven products - user - driven products - assessing the quality of industrial design.
UNIT V:
Design for Manufacturing and Product Development: Definition - Estimation of manufacturing cost - reducing the
component/costs and assembly costs- Minimize system complexity. Prototype basics - Principles of Rapid prototyping - planning
for prototypes – Economic analysis - Understanding and representing tasks - baseline project planning - accelerating the
project execution.
Text Books & References:
1. Product Design and Development / Kari T. Ulrich and Steven D. Eppinger / McGraw Mill International Edns.1999.
2. Concurrent Engg/integrated Product development / Kemnneth Crow / DRM Associates.
3. Effective Product Design and Development / Stephen Rosenthal / Business One Orwin, Homewood, 1992.
4. Tool Design - Integrated Methods for Successful Product Engineering / Staurt Pugh / Addison Wesley Publishing,
NY, 1991.
19
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (AMS & Automation) L P C
Elective – I & II 3 0 3
(AMS12) MATERIALS TECHNOLOGY
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics, Chemistry, Metallurgy and Material science
Course Objectives:
• Understand strengthening mechanisms of materials and their properties and relationship
between them.
• Understand the principles of material science applied to material technology.
• Understand how to choose a material for a given application.
Course Outcomes:
Students should be able to:
• Apply fundamental knowledge of mathematics to modeling and analysis of materials.
• Apply strengthening mechanisms to analyze problems by making good assumptions.
• Apply fundamental principles to manufacture different types of components.
UNIT I:
Elasticity in metals and polymers, mechanism of plastic deformation , Role of dislocations, Yield stress, Shear strength of
perfect and real crystals, Strengthening mechanism, Work hardening, Solid solution, Grain boundary strengthening, Poly phase
mixture, Precipitation, Particle Fiber and dispersion strengthening; Effect of temperature, strain and strain rate on plastic behavior,
super plasticity, deformation of non crystalline material
UNIT II:
Griffith's Theory, Stress intensity factor and fracture Toughness, Toughening Mechanisms, Ductile and Brittle transition in
steel, High Temperature Fracture, Creep, Larson - Miller parameter, Deformation and Fracture mechanism maps.
UNIT III:
Fatigue, Low and High cycle fatigue test, Crack Initiation and Propagation mechanism and Pari's Law, Effect of surface and
metallurgical parameters on Fatigue, Fracture of non-metallic materials, fatigue analysis, Sources of failure, procedure of failure
analysis.
UNIT IV:
Motivation for selection, cost basis and service requirements, Selection for Mechanical Properties, Strength, Toughness,
Fatigue and Creep. Selection for Surface durability, Corrosion and Wear resistance, Relationship between Materials Selection
and Processing, Case studies in Materials Selection with relevance to Aero, Auto, Marine, Machinery and Nuclear Applications.
UNIT V:
Modern Metallic Materials: Dual Steels, Micro alloyed, High Strength Low alloy (HSLA) Steel Transformation induced plasticity
(TRIP) Steel, Maraging Steel, Intermetallics, Ni and Ti Aluminides, Smart Materials, Shape Memory alloys, Metallic Glass
Quasi Crystal and Nano Crystalline Materials.
Nonmetallic Materials: Polymeric materials and their molecular structures, Production Techniques for Fibers, Foams, Adhesive
and Coatings, structure, Properties and Applications of Engineering, polymers, Advanced Structural Ceramics WC, TiC, TiG A
,
12 O3, SiC, Si3 N4, CBN and Diamond - properties, Processing and applications.
Text Books:
1. Mechanical Behavior of Materials/Thomas H. Courtney/ 2nd Edition, McGraw Hill, 2000
2. Mechanical Metallurgy/George E. Dieter/McGraw Hill, 1998.
References:
1. Selection and use of Engineering Materials, 3e/Charles J.A/Butterworth Heinemann.
2. Material Science & Metallurgy by Kodgire.
20
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (AMS, Automation & CAD/CAM) L P C
Elective – I & II 3 0 3
(AMS13) DESIGN FOR MANUFACTURING AND ASSEMBLY
Course Prerequisites: Production technology, Machine Tools, Material Technology
Course Objectives:
• Impart the knowledge on steps involved in design process and material selection
• Understand about the design rules involved in machining and casting
• Understand about the design rules involved in metal joining, forging, extrusion and sheet
metal work
• Understand about the design principles involved in manual and automatic assembly transfer
systems
Course Outcomes:
Student will be able to:
• Apply the knowledge on steps involved in design process and material selection
• Apply the knowledge on design rules involved in machining and casting
• Analyze the design rules involved in metal joining, forging, extrusion and sheet metal work
• Design and analyze the principles involved in manual and automatic assembly transfer
systems
UNIT I:
Introduction: Design philosophy, Steps in Design process, General Design rules for manufacturability, Basic principles of
designing for economical production, Creativity in design.
Materials: Selection of Materials for design, Developments in Material technology, Criteria for material selection, Material
selection, Interrelationship with process selection, Process Selection charts.
UNIT II:
Machining Process: Overview of various machining processes, Design rules for machining, Redesigning of components for
machining ease with suitable examples
Metal Casting: Appraisal of various casting processes, General design considerations for casting, Overview of solidification
simulation in casting design, Product design rules for sand casting, Casting Defects.
UNIT III:
Metal Joining: Appraisal of various welding processes, Factors in design of weldments, General design guidelines, Pre and
post treatment of welds, Effects of thermal stresses in weld joints, Welding Defects, Design of brazed joints.
Forging: Design factors for Forging, Closed die forging design, Parting lines of die drop forging die design
Extrusion & Sheet Metal Work: Design guidelines for extruded sections, Design principles for Punching, Blanking, Bending,
Deep Drawing, Keeler Goodman Forming Line Diagram, Die Design for Blanking.
UNIT-IV:
Assembly Advantages: Development of the assembly process, Choice of assembly method, Assembly advantages, Social
effects of automation.
Automatic Assembly Transfer Systems: Continuous transfer, Intermittent transfer, Indexing mechanisms and operator
paced free transfer machine.
UNIT-V:
Design of Manual Assembly: Design for assembly fits in the design process, General design guidelines for manual
assembly, Development of the systematic DFA methodology, Assembly efficiency, Classification system for manual handling,
Classification system for manual insertion and fastening, Effect of part symmetry on handling time, Effect of part thickness
and size on handling time, Effect of weight on handling time, Parts requiring two hands for manipulation, Effects of
combinations of factors, Effect of symmetry, Effect of chamfer design on insertion operations, Estimation of insertion time.
Text Books:
1. Geoffrey Boothroyd, “Assembly Automation and Product Design", Marcel Dekker Inc., NY, 1992.
2. Engineering Design – Material & Processing Approach – George E. Dieter, McGraw Hill Intl. 2nd Ed. 2000.
References:
1. Geoffrey Boothroyd, "Hand Book of Product Design" Marcel and Dekker, N.Y. 1990.
2. A. Delchambre "Computer Aided Assembly Planning”, Springer London, 1992.
21
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (AMS, CAD/CAM) L P C
Elective – I & II 3 0 3
(AMS14) ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING PROCESSES
Course Prerequisites: Manufacturing Technology, CAD/CAM.
Course Objectives:
• To know the principle methods, areas of usage, possibilities and limitations as well as
environmental effect of the additive manufacturing technologies.
• To be familiar with the characteristics of the different materials those are used in additive
manufacturing.
• Realize the potential implications of AM technologies on product development and identify
needs for new technologies to accelerate the advancement and impact of AM.
Course Outcomes:
Student will be able to:
• Upon completion of this course, the student can able to complete different methods to discuss
the effects of the additive manufacturing technologies and analyse the characteristics of the
different materials in additive manufacturing.
• Select a suitable material for Additive Manufacturing.
• Analyze different Methods for post-processing of additive manufacturing parts.
• Understand the applications of Additive Manufacturing.
•
UNIT I:
Introduction to Additive Manufacturing: Introduction to AM, AM evolution, Distinction between AM & CNC machining,
Advantages of AM,
AM Process Chain: Conceptualization, CAD, conversion to STL, Transfer to AM, STL file manipulation, Machine setup,
build, removal and clean up, post processing.
UNIT II:
Classification of AM Processes: Liquid polymer system, discrete particle system, molten material systems, solid sheet
system.
UNIT III:
Design for AM: Motivation, DFMA concepts and objectives, AM unique capabilities, Exploring design freedoms, Design tools
for AM, Part Orientation, Removal of Supports, Hollowing out parts, Inclusion of Undercuts and other Manufacturing
Constraining Features, Interlocking Features, Reduction of Part Count in an Assembly, Identification of markings/ numbers
etc.
UNIT IV:
Guidelines for Process Selection: Introduction, selection methods for a part, challenges of selection, example system for
preliminary selection, production planning and control
AM Applications: Functional models, Pattern for investment and vacuum casting, Medical models, art models, Engineering
analysis models. Application examples for Aerospace, defense, automobile, Bio-medical and general engineering industries
UNIT V:
Post Processing of AM Parts: Support material removal, surface texture improvement, accuracy improvement, aesthetic
improvement, preparation for use as a pattern, property enhancements using non-thermal and thermal techniques.
Future Directions of AM: Introduction, new types of products and employment and digiproneurship.
Text Books & References:
1. Ian Gibson, David W Rosen, Brent Stucker., “Additive Manufacturing Technologies: Rapid Prototyping to Direct Digital
Manufacturing”, Springer, 2010
2. Chua Chee Kai, Leong Kah Fai, “Rapid Prototyping: Principles & Applications”, World Scientific, 2003.
3. Ali K. Kamrani, Emand Abouel Nasr, “Rapid Prototyping: Theory & Practice”, Springer, 2006.
4. D.T. Pham, S.S. Dimov, Rapid Manufacturing: The Technologies and Applications of Rapid Prototyping and Rapid
Tooling, Springer 2001
5. Andreas Gebhardt, Understanding Additive Manufacture: Rapid Prototyping, Rapid Tooling and Rapid Manufacture,
Hanser Publishers, 2013.
22
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (AMS, Automation& CAD/CAM) L P C
Elective – I & II 3 0 3
(AMS15) MECHATRONICS
Course Prerequisites: Basic electronics, manufacturing, intelligence systems.
Course Objectives:
• To understand mechatronics principles and applications.
• To explore architecture of intelligence machines
• Understand machine design principles for similar applications
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Develop motion control algorithm
• Effectively choose /select proper sensor actuator to a given application
• Develop an intelligent automated system and manufacturing data base system
UNIT I:
Introduction: Definition of Mechatronics products, Design Considerations and Tradeoffs, Overview of Mechatronic products.
Intelligent Machine vs Automatic. Machine Economic and social justification.
Actuators and Motion Control: Characteristics of Mechanical, electrical, Hydraulic and pneumatic actuators and their
limitations. Control parameters and system objectives. Mechanical configurations. Popular control system configurations. S-
curve, Motor/Load inertia matching, design with linear slides.
UNIT II:
Motion Control Algorithms: significance of feed forward control loops, shortfalls, Fundamental concepts of adaptive and
fuzzy control. Fuzzy logic compensatory control of transformation and deformation non-Z linearities.
UNIT III:
Architecture of Intelligent Machines: Introduction to Microprocessor and programmable logic controllers and identification
of system, System design Classification. Motion control aspects in Design.
UNIT IV:
Manufacturing Data Bases: Data Base management system, CAD/CAM Data bases, Graphic Data Base, Introduction to
object oriented concepts, objects oriented model language interface, procedures and methods in creation, edition and
manipulation of data.
UNIT V:
Sensor Interfacing: Analog and Digital Sensors for Motion Measurement, Digital Transducers, Human — Machine and
Machine — Machine Interfacing devices and strategy.
Machine Vision: Feature and Pattern Recognition methods, concepts of perception and cognition in decision making.
Text Books & References:
1. Control sensors and actuators, “Designing Intelligent Machines”, Open University, London
2. Michel B. Histand and David G. Alciatore, “Introduction to Mechatronics and Measurement Systems” Tata McGraw Hill.
3. C.W. De Silva, “Control sensors and actuators”, 2 Edition, Prentice Hall.
23
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing Systems) L P C
Elective – I & II 3 0 3
(AMS16) THEORY OF ELASTICITY AND PLASTICITY
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Physics, Mechanics, Strength of materials.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the mechanisms of stress, strain and their relationships for ductile metals.
• Understand bending of bars with different mountings and cross sections.
• Understand elastic and plastic deformations in engineering materials.
Course outcomes:
Student would be able to:
• Identify the components under plane stresses and plane strains.
• Analyze engineering components subjected to various loads and comment on their design and
suggest a new design.
• Design components for a given application considering elastic and plastic deformation.
UNIT I:
Elasticity: Two dimensional stress analysis - Plane stress - Plane strain - Equations of compatibility - Stress function -
Boundary conditions.
UNIT II:
Problem in Rectangular Coordinates: Solution by polynomials - Saint Venent's principles - Determination of displacement -
Simple beam problems.
Problems in Polar Coordinates: General equations in polar coordinates - Stress distribution symmetrical about axis - Strain
components in polar coordinates - Simple and symmetric problems.
UNIT III:
Analysis of Stress and Strain in Three Dimensions: Principle stresses - Homogeneous deformations - Strain spherical and
deviatoric stress - Hydrostatic strain.
General Theorems: Differential equations of equilibrium and compatibility - Displacement - Uniqueness of solution -
Reciprocal theorem.
UNIT IV:
Bending of Prismatic Bars: Stress function - Bending of cantilever beam - Beam of rectangular cross-section - Beams of
circular cross-section.
Plasticity: Plastic deformation of metals - Structure of metals - Deformation - Creep stress relaxation of deformation - Strain
rate condition of constant maximum shear stress - Condition of constant strain energy - Approximate equation of plasticity.
UNIT V:
Methods of Solving Practical Problems: The characteristic method - Engineering method - Compression of metal under
press - Theoretical and experimental data drawing.
Text Books & References:
1. Theory of Elasticity by Timoshenko, S.P. and Goodier, J.N.
2. An Engineering Theory of Plasticity by E.P. Unksov.
3. Applied Elasticity by W.T. Wang.
4. Theory of Plasticity by Hoffman and Sacks.
24
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (AMS & Automation) L P C
Open Elective - I 3 0 3
(AUT32) DESIGN AND MANUFACTURING OF MEMS AND MICRO SYSTEMS
Course Prerequisites: Electrical and Mechanical Engineering, Physics.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the need, general principles and mechanisms of the various components of
MEMS.
• Understand the study of atomic structures, ions, molecular theory, doping of semiconductors,
quantum physics.
• Understand the engineering mechanics analysis on the design of the micro systems and the
study of different materials used for their fabrication processes.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Apply the basics of MEMS and the Microsystems.
• Apply knowledge of engineering science, mechanics, fluid systems, thermal engineering and
material science while designing of systems.
• Design and fabricate a simple MEMS device.
UNIT I:
Overview and Working Principles of MEMS and Microsystems: MEMS & Microsystems, Evolution of Micro fabrication,
Microsystems & Microelectronics, Microsystems & Miniaturization, Applications of MEMS in Industries, Micro sensors, Micro actuation,
MEMS with Micro actuators Micro accelerometers, Micro fluidics.
UNIT II:
Engineering Science for Microsystems Design and Fabrication: Atomic structure of Matter, Ions and Ionization, Molecular
Theory of Matter and Intermolecular Force, Doping of Semiconductors, The diffusion Process, Plasma Physics,
Electrochemistry, Quantum Physics.
UNIT III:
Engineering Mechanics for Microsystems Design: Static Bending of thin plates, Mechanical Vibration, Thermo Mechanics,
Fracture Mechanics, Thin film Mechanics, Overview of Finite Element Stress Analysis.
UNIT IV:
Thermo Fluid Engineering & Microsystems Design: Overview of Basics of Fluid Mechanics in Macro and Mesoscales, Basic
equations in Continuum Fluid dynamics, Laminar Fluid Flow in Circular Conduits, Computational Fluid Dynamics, Incompressible
Fluid Flow in Micro conduits, Fluid Flow in Sub micrometer and Nanoscale, Overview of Heat conduction in Solids, Heat Conduction in
Multilayered Thin films and in solids in submicrometer scale, Design Considerations, Process Design Mechanical Design, Mechanical
Design using FEM, Design of a Silicon Die for a Micro pressure sensor.
UNIT V:
Materials for MEMS & Microsystems and their fabrication: Substrates and Wafers, Active substrate materials, Silicon as a
substrate material, Silicon Compounds, Silicon Piezoresistors, Gallium Arsenide, Quartz, Piezoelectric Crystals and Polymers,
Photolithography, Ion implantation, Diffusion and oxidation, chemical and physical vapor deposition Etching, Bulk micro
manufacturing, Surface Micromachining, The LIGA Process
Text Book:
1. Tai-Ran Hsu, MEMs & Microsystems: Design & Manufacture, Tata McGraw Hill, ed., 2002
References:
1. Maluf, M. "An Introduction to Microelectromechanical Systems Engineering", Artech House, Boston, 2000.
2. Trimmer, W.S.N. "Micro robots and Micromechanical Systems", Sensors & Actuators, Vol. 9, 1989.
3. Trim, D.W. "Applied Partial Differential Equations” VPWS-Kent Publishing, Boston 1990.
4. Madou, M. "Fundamentals of Micro fabrication", CRC Press, Boca Raton, 1997.
5. Hsu, T.R. "The Finite Element Method in Thermomechanics", Alien & Unwin, London.
25
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (AMS, Automation & CAD/CAM) L P C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(AMS32) QUALITY AND RELIABILITY ENGINEERING
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Statistics, Quality Control and Industrial Engineering
Course Objectives:
• To understand the approaches and techniques to assess and improve process or product quality and
reliability.
• To understand the robust design methodology in solving practical engineering problems
• To understand the types of factors and principles of Quality Loss Function and to Comprehend various
quality control tools.
• To understand the tools and techniques that can be used early in the design phase to effectively
influence a design from the perspective of system reliability, maintainability, and availability.
Course Outcomes:
Student will be able to:
• Select and use the proper orthogonal arrays in designing, conducting and analyzing the experiments.
• Utilize the analytical techniques to find out the variation in the data and obtain optimal results in the
process of achieving robust design.
• Identify, formulate, and solve Quality and reliability engineering related problems
• Develop an ability to design a system component or process to meet desired quality within realistic
constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety,
manufacturability and sustainability.
UNIT I:
Quality Engineering: Concepts of Quality Engineering, Taguchi’s Approach to Quality, On-line and Offline Quality Control,
Difference from Classical Approach, Quality Loss Function, System Design, Parameter Design, Tolerance Design, Causes of
Variation, Classification of Parameters, Parameter Design Strategy
UNIT II:
Steps in Robust Design, Quality Characteristics and Objective Functions, Control Factors and their Levels, Noise Factors and
Testing Conditions, Planning and Conducting the Experiment Response Surface Methodology – First- order and Second-
order Models Crossed Array Experiments, Signal-to-Noise Ratios
UNIT III:
Reliability Engineering: The Reliability Function, Failure Rate, Hazard Rate, Bath-tub Curve, Relationship between Various
Reliability Characteristics, Component Reliability, Mean-time-to-failure, Time-dependent Hazard Models – Constant-hazard,
Linear-hazard, Nonlinear-hazard and Gamma Models
UNIT IV:
System Reliability, Two-state Modeling, Series Models, Parallel Models, Series-parallel and Parallel-series Models, k-out-of-m
Models, Standby Models, Non-series-parallel Models, Fault-tree Approach to System Modeling
UNIT V:
Maintained Systems, Classification of Maintenance Activities: Breakdown, Preventive and Predictive Maintenance, Condition
Monitoring, Maintainability and Availability, Reliability-centered Maintenance
Text Books & References:
1. Antony J (2003). Design and Experiments for Engineers and Scientists, Butterworth- Heinmann.
2. Cochran W and Cox G (2000). Experimental Designs, 2nd edition, John Wiley and Sons Inc.
3. Dean A and Voss D (2006). Design and Analysis of Experiments, Springer.
4. Jeff Wu C and Hamada M (2000). Experiments: Planning, Analysis and Parameter Design Optimization, John Wiley and
Sons Inc.
5. Montgomery D (2001). Design and Analysis of Experiments, 5th edition, Wiley.
6. Phadke, M (1989). Quality Engineering using Robust Design, Prentice Hall.
7. Ross, P (1996). Taguchi Techniques for Quality Engineering, 2nd edition, McGraw Hill.
8. Balgurusamy E (2003). Reliability Engineering, Tata McGraw Hill.
9. Birolini A (2004). Reliability Engineering: Theory and Practice, 4th edition, Springer.
10. Crowder M, Kimber A, Smith R and Sweeting T (1991). Statistical Analysis of Reliability Data, Chapman and Hall.
11. Kumamoto H and Henley E (1996). Probabilistic Risk Assessment and Management for Engineers and Scientists, IEEE
Press.
26
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (AMS & Automation) L P C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(AMS33) NEURAL NETWORK AND FUZZY SYSTEMS
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Concept of human logic, reasoning and operations.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the fundamentals of fuzzy logic, its relative principles.
• Learn the concepts of neural networks, hybrid intelligence.
• Identifying the real time applications.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
▪ Identify the potential areas of application of fuzzy logic.
▪ Design fuzzy logic and genetic algorithm.
▪ Apply the concepts of fuzzy control to real time systems.
UNIT I:
Knowledge Representation and processing – Knowledge and Intelligence – logic – Frames – production systems.
Fundamentals of Fuzzy logic – Fuzzy sets – Fuzzy Relation – composition and Inference.
UNITII:
Membership Function estimation – Importance – Fuzzy to crisp conversion – methods – Fuzzy extension principle – Fuzzy
tautologies – Implication operation Composition operation.
UNITIII:
Basics of Fuzzy Control – Architecture of Fuzzy Control – examples of Fuzzy Control system Design – Robotic Control
system – Industrial applications.
UNIT IV:
Hybrid Intelligence – Basic concepts of neural network – Inference and learning – Classification Models – Association models,
Optimization models – Neural Network learning.
UNIT V:
Rule Based Neural Networks – Network Training – Application of Neural Network in Mathematical Modeling – knowledge
based approaches – applications in Mechanical Engineering – Fuzzy – Neural, examples, Neuro – Fuzzy examples –
Intelligence in Automation.
Text Books & References:
1. Clarence W.de Silva - Intelligent Control Fuzzy Logic Applications, CRS Press, 1995
2. Timothy J. Ross - Fuzzy Logic with engineering Applications, McGraw Hill Inc., 1995.
3. Limin Fu - Neural Networks in Computer Intelligence, Tata McGraw Hill Publishing Company Ltd.,
2003
4. Stamations - Understanding Neural Networks and Fuzzy Logic, Basic concepts Applications, IEE
and V. Kartalopoulos Neural Networks Council Prentice Hall of India Pvt., Ltd., 2001.
5. James A. Freeman and - Neural Networks Algorithms, Applications & Programming Techniques, Pearson
David M. Skapura Education Asia, 2001.
6. Yegnarayane.B - Artificial Neural Networks, Prentice Hall – 2001.
27
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (AMS & Automation) L P C
0 3 2
(AMS51) MANUFACTURING SIMULATION & PRECISION ENGINEERING LAB
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, FMS, machine Tools, Process Planning, Metrology, Plant Layout, Automation.
Course Objectives:
• Understand and learn simulation packages of discrete time systems for Queuing systems, Job
shop systems and Inventory systems.
• Appreciate the various manufacturing processes, understand the chip morphology and cutting
forces involved.
• Learn the concepts of PLC and microcontrollers.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Simulate and develop inventory, planning and scheduling systems.
• Simulate and develop appropriate production systems for a plant.
• Determine cutting forces, measuring parameters and dimensions of precision parts.
• Use hydraulic and pneumatic circuits and PLC in part manufacture.
MANUFACTURING SIMULATION LABORATORY
1. Simulation of Continuous Time Systems and Discrete Time Systems.
2. Simulation of Queuing Systems
3. Simulation of Inventory Systems.
4. Simulation of Flexible Manufacturing Systems.
5. Simulation of Job Shop Production Systems.
(Problems may include AGV Planning, ASRS Simulation, JIT System, Kanban flow, MRP, Shop Floor scheduling, Material
Handling Systems)
Packages: Use of Flexsim, AutoMOD, PROMOD, SLAM-H, CAFINS Software etc
PRECISION ENGINEERING LABORATORY
1. Study of Chip formation in Turning Process.
2. Determination of Cutting forces in Turning.
3. Study of operation of Tool & Cutter grinder, Cylindrical grinder.
4. Inspection of parts using Toolmakers Microscope, Roughness and Form tester
5. Hydraulic and Pneumatic Circuits.
6. Closed Loop Control Systems.
7. Studies in Programming Logic Controllers (PLC) programming.
8. Studies of Micro Controllers.
28
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
L T/P/D C
I Year- I Sem. M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing Systems)
0 0 4
(AMS61) MINI PROJECT – I
A mini project work shall be carried out on any topic of Advanced Manufacturing and a seminar should be given on the same
along with a brief report.
29
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (AMS & CAD/CAM) L P C
3 1 4
(CAD02) COMPUTER AIDED MANUFACTURING
Course Prerequisites: CAD/CAM, Manufacturing & Production Technology.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the NC Systems, NC part programming fundamentals
• Understand the CNC systems, APT language and develop the APT program for geometric
shapes
• Understand the concepts of CNC Tooling, DNC, Adoptive control ,CAD/CAM software
implementation, Postprocessor
• Understand the concept of Computer aided process planning & hybrid CAPP, and Artificial
Neural Network in CAD.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Apply knowledge and work the NC Machines and able to program
• Develop an optimal APT program for a given component.
• Apply Tooling, DNC & Adoptive control, CAD/ CAM software, Post processor knowledge
• Work with models of CAPP, CAI & QC
UNIT I:
Computer Aided Programming (1) : General information
NC Systems (2) : NC Coordinate systems, elements of NC systems, Classification of NC Systems, Advantages &
Disadvantages of NC Systems
NC Part Programming (2): Manual Part Programming fundamentals(word address format, Preparatory function , Feed,
Speed, Tool Change functions, Dimensional words, Canned Cycles, Tool Offset, Tool Length Compensation, Tool nose
radius compensation )
UNIT II:
CNC Systems (2): What is CNC, functions of CNC, Features of CNC, Advantages of CNC
APT programming (1&2): Computer Assisted Part Programming, Computer Assisted NC Part programming Languages, APT
Language & Programming (statements & Programming), Examples of APT programming problems (2D machining- Milling &
Drilling only)
UNIT III:
Tooling for CNC Machines (-): Interchangeable tooling system, preset and qualified tools, coolant fed tooling system, Quick
change tooling system, automatic head changers/ ATC, Modular fixturing
DNC Systems(2) : DNC Concepts, Objectives of DNC, Components of DNC, Types of DNC, advantages and disadvantages
of DNC
Adaptive Control (1) : Adaptive control with optimization, Adaptive control with constraints, Adaptive control of machining
processes like turning, Grinding
UNIT IV:
Introduction to CAD/CAM software (2): NC programming using CAD/CAM, Tool path generation using CAD/CAM,
Technology of CAM, How Computer assisted programming systems work
Post Processors for CNC (3): Introduction to Post Processors, The necessity of a Post Processor, the general, structure of a
Post Processor, the functions of a Post Processor
UNIT V :
Computer Aided Process Planning (2): CAPP system- Retrieval type CAPP System, Generative type CAPP system, Hybrid
CAAP System
Computer Aided Inspection and Quality Control (2) : CMM Construction, Limitations of CMM, Computer Aided Testing,
Optical Inspection Methods
Text Books:
1. Computer Control of Manufacturing Systems- Yoram Koren- McGraw Hill
2. Computer Aided Design Manufacturing - K. Lalit Narayan, K. Mallikarjuna Rao and M.M.M. Sarcar, PHI
3. Numerical Control Machine Programming and Software Design- C H Chang, M A Melkanoff, Prentice Hall
30
References:
1. CAD/CAM Computer Aided Design And Manufacturing- Mikell P. Groover, E W Zimmers Jr
2. CAD/CAM Principles and Applications- P.N.Rao, McGraw Hill
3. Computer Aided Manufacturing- TC Chang, Wysk, HP Wang, Pearson/ Prentice Hall International
4. Mastering CAD/CAM - Ibrahim Zeid
31
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (AMS & CAD/CAM) L P C
3 1 4
(CAD03) RAPID PROTOTYPING
Course Prerequisites: Manufacturing Technology, Materials Technology, CAD/CAM
Course Objectives:
• An understanding of the various rapid prototyping and rapid tooling technologies;
• The knowledge to select appropriate technologies for product development purposes.
• The rapid prototyping process will be illustrated by the actual design and fabrication of a part.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Describe the differences and of the application of a range of additive manufacturing
processes.
• Select and use correct CAD formats in the manufacture of a 3D printed part.
• Set up and fabricate a 3D part using an additive manufacturing machine.
• Select the appropriate fabrication technology, or technologies, for a given prototyping
task.
UNIT I:
Introduction: Historical Development, Fundamentals of RP, Advantages of RP, Classification of RP. RP Process chain, 3D
modeling, data conversion and transmission, checking and preparing, building, post processing.
UNIT II:
Liquid Based RP System: 3D systems’ SLA, Cubital’s SGC, Sony’s SCS, Other similar commercial RP systems, micro
fabrication.
UNIT III:
Solid Based RP System: Helisys LOM, Stratasys FDM, 3D systems MJM, Other similar commercial RP systems.
UNIT IV:
Powder Based RP Systems: DTM’s selective laser sintering (SLS), MIT’s 3D printing (3DP), BPM Technology’s ballistic
particle manufacturing (BPM)
UNIT V:
Rapid Prototyping Data formats: STL format, STL file problem, Consequences of building a valid and invalid tessellated
model, STL file repair, newly proposed formats.
Text Books:
1. Rapid Prototyping: Principles and Applications - Chua Chee Kai, Leong Kah Fai, Lim Chu-Sing, World Scientific Pub Co.
2. Rapid Manufacturing – D.T. Pham and S. S. Dimov, Springer Publication.
References:
1. Rapid Prototyping : Theory and Practice - Ali Kamrani, Emad Abouel Nasr (Editors), Springer Publication
2. Rapid Prototyping: Principles and Applications- Rafiq I. Noorani, Wiley.
3. Rapid Prototyping -- Andreas Gebhardt, Hanser Gardner Publications
32
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing Systems) L P C
3 1 4
(AMS04) PRODUCT DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIES
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Drawing, Engineering Design, Manufacturing
Course Objectives:
• Introduce the basic concepts of product design and product development process
• Create awareness about concept generation and the role of multiple functions in creating a
new product
• Knowledge about the product features and its architecture so as to incorporate them suitably
in product
• Learn about the economics of product development and intellectual property issues
Course Outcomes:
Student will be able to:
• Understand the product design and development process and the integration of customer
requirements in product design
• Apply structural approach to concept generation, selection and testing
• Demonstrate the skills in creation of a product by considering various aspects like product
architecture, industrial design and design for manufacture
• Evaluate the economics of product design and development and apply for intellectual property
UNIT I:
Introduction: Introduction to product design and development, Characteristics of successful product development,
Composition of product development team, Challenges of product development, Generic product development process and
its adaptation, Process flows for various product developments, Product development organizations
UNIT II:
Customer Needs: Raw data collection, Its interpretation in terms of customer needs, Organizing the needs into hierarchy,
Establishing the relative importance of needs and its reflection on the results.
Product Specifications: Definitions, When to establish specifications, Establishing target specifications, Setting final
specifications
UNIT III:
Concept Generation, Selection & Testing: Activity of concept generation, Five step method, Introduction to concept
selection, Benefits of structured method, Concept screening, Concept scoring, Concept testing methodology
UNIT IV:
Product Architecture: Introduction, Its implications, Establishing the architecture, Platform planning, Design issues
Industrial Design: Industrial design process – Need, Impact, Management and Assessment
Design for Manufacturing & Prototyping: DFM defined, DFM process, Introduction to prototyping - Principles
Technologies, Planning for prototypes
UNIT V:
Economics of Product Development: Elements, Economic analysis process, Factors for success of project, Qualitative
analysis
Intellectual Property: Introduction, Overview of patents, Invention disclosure process
Text Books:
1. Karl T. Ulrich and Steven D. Eppinger, Product Design and Development, Tata McGraw-Hill
2. Kevin Otto and Kristin Wood, Product Design, Pearson Education
References:
1. George E. Dieter, Linda C. Schmidt, Engineering Design, McGraw-Hill International Edition
2. Yousef Haik, T. M. M. Shahin, Engineering Design Process, Cengage Learning
3. Clive L. Dym, Patrick Little, Engineering Design: A Project-based Introduction, John Wiley & Sons
33
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (AMS, Automation & CAD/CAM) L P C
Elective – III & IV 3 0 3
(AMS21) QUALITY ENGINEERING IN MANUFACTURING
Course Prerequisites: Statistics, Statistical Quality Control.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the types of factors and principles of Quality Loss Function.
• Understand the robust design methodology in solving practical engineering problems.
• Comprehend the various quality control tools.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Value the concept of quality, use quality tools and obtain the quality loss.
• Utilize the analytical techniques to find out the variation in the data and obtain optimal results.
• Select and use the proper orthogonal arrays in designing, conducting and analyzing the
experiments.
UNIT I:
Quality Value and Engineering: An overall quality system, Quality engineering in product design, Quality engineering in design of
production processes, Quality engineering in production.
Loss Function and Quality Level: Derivation and use of Quality Loss Function (QLF), Economic consequences of tightening tolerances
as a means to improve quality, Evaluations and types tolerances - N-type, S-type and L-type.
UNIT II:
Analysis of Variance (ANOVA): NO - way ANOVA, One-way ANOVA, Two-way ANOVA, Critique of F-test, ANOVA for four level factors,
multiple level factors.
UNIT III:
Orthogonal Arrays: Introduction to OA, Degrees of Freedom, Structure of OA, Linear Graphs & Interaction tables, Strategies in
Experimentation - Typical test strategies, Better test strategies & Efficient test strategies, Steps in designing, conducting and analyzing
an experiment.
Interpolation of Experimental Results: Interpretation methods, Percent contribution, Estimating the mean.
UNIT IV:
Tolerance Design and Tolerancing: Functional limits, Tolerance design for N-type, L-type and S-type characteristics, Tolerance allocation for
multiple components.
Parameter and Tolerance Design: Introduction to parameter design, Signal to noise ratios, Parameter design strategy, Some of the
case studies on parameter and tolerance designs.
UNIT V:
Quality Tools: ISO-9000 Quality System, Business Process Re-engineering (BPRE), Six-sigma, Bench making, Quality circles,
Brain Storming, Fishbone diagram.
Text Book:
1. Taguchi Techniques for Quality Engineering /Phillip J. Ross/ McGraw Hill, Intl. II Edition, 1995.
References:
1. Quality Engineering in Production systems / G. Taguchi, A- Elsayed et al / McGraw Hill Intl. Edition, 1989.
2. Taguchi Methods explained: Practical steps to Robust Resign / Tapan P. Bagchi /Prentice Hall Ind Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi.
34
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing Systems) L P C
Elective – III & IV 3 0 3
(AMS22) TOOL DESIGN
Course Prerequisites: Design principles, machine tools, process engineering.
Course Objectives:
• Analyze the properties of tool materials such as ferrous, non ferrous, non metallic materials
and their heat treatment .
• Design single and multi point cutting tools for various applications.
• Create Jigs and Fixtures design.
• Analyze the design of sheet metal tools for blanking, piercing, bending, forming and drawing
etc.
Course Outcomes:
Students should be able to:
• Evaluate the single and multi point cutting tools for various methods.
• Analyze the design of jigs and fixtures for several components depending on quantity
requirement.
• Analyze the sheet metal tools for blanking, piercing, bending, forming and drawing.
• Apply an appropriate heat treatment for the tools.
UNIT I:
Tool Materials: Properties of materials- Tools steels, Cast Iron, Mild or low carbon steels, Non metallic and nonferrous materials
and its Heat treatment.
UNIT II:
Design of Cutting Tools: Single Point cutting tools: Milling cutters, Drills, Selection of carbide steels - Determination of shank size
for single point carbide tools, determining the insert thickness for carbide tools
UNIT III:
Design of Jigs And Fixtures: Basic principles of location and clamping: Locating methods and devices, Jigs-Definition Types,
General considerations in the design of Drill jigs, Drill bushing, Methods of Construction. Fixtures- Vice fixtures, Milling, Boring, Lathe
and grinding fixtures.
UNIT IV:
Design of Sheet Metal Blanking and Piercing Dies: Fundamentals of Die cutting operation, Power press types, General press
information, Materials Handling equipment. Cutting action in Punch and die operations. Die clearance, Types of Die construction. Die
design fundamentals-Blanking and piercing die construction, pilots, stripper and pressure pads presswork material, Strip layout,
Short run tooling for piercing.
UNIT V:
Design of Sheet Metal Bending, Forming and Drawing Dies: Bending dies, drawing dies, forming dies, drawing operations,
Variables that effect metal flow during drawing. Determination of blank size, Drawing force, Single and double action draw dies.
Texts Books:
1. Donaldson "Tool Design", Tata McGraw Hill
2. George F Dieter "Mechanical Metallurgy" Tata McGraw Hill
References:
1. Taylour Altm, Sool Ik-Oh and Harold L. Gegel - "American Society for Metals", 1983.
2. Kurt Lange, "Hand Book of Metal forming”, McGraw-Hill, 1987.
35
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing Systems) L P C
Elective – III & IV 3 0 3
(AMS23) THEORY OF METAL CUTTING
Course Prerequisites: Production technology, Machine tools
Course Objectives:
• Understand the theory of metal cutting, cutting tools geometry and their areas of application based on principles of
metal cutting.
• Understand cutting forces, cutting temperature and their measurement.
• Understand tool wear, replacement strategy, tool materials and their properties.
• Understand the economics of machining.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to
• Analyze the theory of metal cutting, cutting tool and its geometry.
• Select a cutting tool material and appropriate material to be cut.
• Know the methods of measuring the cutting forces, temperature and their significance
• Select a cutting tool with optimal tool life to maximize material removal rate.
UNIT I:
Mechanics of Metal Cutting: Geometry of Metal Cutting Process, Chip formation, Chip thickness ratio, radius of chip
curvature, cutting speed, feed and depth of cut – Types of chips chip breakers. Formation of built-up edge and its effect,
Orthogonal and Oblique cutting processes – definition, Forces and energy calculations (Merchant’s Analysis) – Power
consumed.
UNIT II:
Measurement of Cutting Forces : Reasons for measuring cutting forces, Classification of cutting force dynamometers –
mechanical, piezoelectric, and strain gage type dynamometers, Dynamometers for lathe, drilling, and milling, Calibration of
dynamometers.
Single Point Cutting Tool: Various systems of specifications, single point cutting tool geometry and their inter-relation.
UNIT III:
Cutting tool materials: Historical developments, essential properties of cutting tool materials, types, composition and
application of various cutting tool materials, selection of cutting tool materials.
Tool Life and Tool Wear: Theories of tool wear – adhesion, abrasive and diffusion wear mechanisms, forms of wear, Tool
life criteria and machinability index. Types of sliding contact, real area of contact, laws of friction and nature of frictional force
in metal cutting, effect of process parameters on tool life.
UNIT IV:
Cutting Temperature: Sources of heat in metal cutting, influence of metal conditions, Temperature distribution, zones, and
experimental techniques. Use of tool- work thermocouple for determination of temperature. Temperature distribution in Metal
Cutting.
Cutting Fluids: Functions of cutting fluids, types of cutting fluids, properties, selection of cutting fluids.
UNIT V:
Economics of Machining:
Introduction, elements of total production cost, optimum cutting speed and tool life for minimum cost, optimum cutting speed
and tool life for maximum production, problems.
Text books:
1. Principles of Metal Cutting by G. C. Sen and A. Bhattacharya; Publisher: New Central Book Agency.
2. Metal Cutting Principles by M C Shaw; Publisher: Oxford and IBH Publications.
References:
1. Fundamentals of Machining by Boothroyd; Publisher: Edward Amold
2. Fundamentals of Metal Cutting and Machine tools by B. L. Juneja, G. S. Sekhom & Nitin Seth; Publisher: New Age
International
3. Principles of Metal Cutting by G. Kuppuswamy; Publisher: Universities Press
36
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (AMS & CAD/CAM) L P C
Elective – III & IV 3 0 3
(AMS24) INTELLIGENT MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Machine Tools, Process Planning, Plant Layout, Material Handling.
Course Objectives:
• Understand components, structures, function of CIM, computer system Architecture and data
requirements.
• Understand components of knowledge based systems, machine learning, Artificial Intelligence
and Neural Networks and their applications in manufacturing.
• Understand process planning and its automation, equipment selection and modeling and
manufacturing system design.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Design and develop CIM system.
• Apply concepts of neural networks in areas of manufacturing.
• Apply Group Technology models and algorithms for automated manufacturing cells.
UNIT I:
Computer Integrated Manufacturing: Systems, Structure and functional areas of CIM system – CAD, CAPP, CAM, CAQC,
ASRS- Advantages of CIM, CIM Models, OSI Model, Data Redundancy, Top- down and Bottom-up Approach, Volume of
Information, Intelligent Manufacturing System Components, System Architecture and Data Flow, System Operation.
UNIT II:
Components of Knowledge Based Systems: Basic Components of Knowledge Based Systems, Knowledge Representation,
Comparison of Knowledge Representation Schemes, Interference Engine, Knowledge Acquisition
UNIT III:
Machine Learning: Concept of Artificial Intelligence, Conceptual Learning, Artificial Neural Networks - Biological Neuron,
Artificial Neuron, Types of Neural Networks, Applications in Manufacturing.
UNIT IV:
Automated Process Planning: Variant Approach, Generative Approach, Expert Systems for Process Planning, Feature
Recognition, Phases of Process planning. Knowledge Based System for Equipment Selection (KBSES) - Manufacturing system
design. Equipment Selection Problem, Modeling the Manufacturing Equipment Selection Problem, Problem Solving approach in
KBSES, Structure of the KRSES.
UNIT V:
Group Technology: Models and Algorithms Visual Method, Coding Method, Cluster Analysis Method, Matrix Formation —
Similarity Coefficient Method, Sorting-based Algorithms, Bond Energy Algorithm, Cost Based method, Cluster Identification
Method, Extended CI Method. Knowledge Based Group Technology - Group Technology in Automated Manufacturing
System. Structure of Knowledge based system for group technology (KBSCIT) — Data Base, Knowledge Base, Clustering
Algorithm.
Text Books & References:
1. Intelligent Manufacturing Systems by Andre Kusaic.
2. Artificial Neural Networks by Yagna Narayana
3. Automation, Production Systems and CIM by Groover M.P.
4. Neural Networks by Wassarman.
37
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing Systems) L P C
Elective – III & IV 3 0 3
(AMS25) FINITE ELEMENT METHOD
Course Prerequisites: Numerical Methods, Engineering Mechanics, Solid Mechanics.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the concept of Finite Element Method, Identify the areas of application of FEM
and study the procedure.
• Understand different methods of solving linear problems and differentiate them.
• Understand the concept of FEM to solve basic non linear problems.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Apply the concepts of FEM to linear 1D, 2D and 3D problems.
• Solve simple non linear problems numerically.
• Perform analysis on a given problem using ANSYS.
UNITI:
Introduction to FEM: basic concepts, historical back ground, application of FEM, general description, comparison of FEM
with other methods, Variational approach, Galerkin methods.
Co-ordinates, Basic element shapes, Interpolation function. Virtual energy principle, Rayleigh - Ritz method, Properties of
stiffness matrix, Treatment of boundary conditions, Solution of system of equations, Shape functions and characteristics,
Basic equations of elasticity, Strain displacement relations.
UNIT II:
1-D structural problems, Axial bar element, Stiffness matrix load vector, Temperature effects, Quadratic shape function,
Analysis of Trusses, Plane Truss and Space Truss elements, Axis symmetric solid subjected to axisymmetric loading.
Analysis of beams: Hermite shape functions, Stiffness matrix, Load vector, Problems.
2-D problems: CST, LST, Force terms, Stiffness matrix and load vector, Boundary conditions.
UNIT III:
Isoparametric element, Quadrilateral element, Shape functions, Numerical Integration, sub parametric and super parametric
elements.
3-D problems: Tetrahedron element, Jacobian matrix, Stiffness matrix.
Scalar field problems: 1-D Heat conduction, 1-D fin element, 2-D heat conduction, Problems, Introduction to Torsional
problems.
UNIT IV:
Dynamic considerations, Dynamic equations, Consistent mass matrix, Eigen Values, Eigen Vector, Natural frequencies,
Mode shapes, Modal analysis.
UNIT V:
Non linearity, Introduction, Non-linear problems, Geometric non-linearity, Non-linear dynamic problems, Analytical problems.
Text Books & References:
1. Introduction to finite elements in engineering, Tirupathi K. Chandrupatla and Ashok D. Belagundu.
2. Concepts and applications of finite element analysis, Robert Cook
3. The finite element methods in Engineering, S.S. Rao, Pergamon, New York
4. An Introduction to Finite Element Methods, J. N. Reddy, McGraw Hill
5. The Finite element method in engineering science, O.C. Zienkowitz, McGraw Hill.
6. Finite Element Procedures in Engineering analysis, K. J Bathe
7. Hutton: Fundamentals of Finite Element Analysis, Hutton D. V
8. Lagan: A First course in the of Finite Element method, Dary L. lagan.
38
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (AMS & CAD/CAM) L P C
Elective – III & IV 3 0 3
(AMS26) INDUSTRIAL ROBOTICS
Course Prerequisites: Matrices, Signals and linear systems, Mathematics.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the robot anatomy, the different control systems and components to control the
robot manipulator.
• Analyze the forces acting on the joints in robots and develop a general configuration of the
controller.
• Understand robot programming and its physical design for proper coordination and control of
robots.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Configure a simple robot for a given application.
• Apply knowledge of matrices and vectors to find the movements of the robot manipulator.
• Write a program to control a robot.
UNIT I:
Introduction: Automation and Robotics, Robot anatomy, robot configuration, motions joint notation work volume, robot drive system,
control system and dynamic performance, precision of movement.
Control System and Components: Basic concept and models, Controllers, Control system analysis, Robot activation and
feedback components, Positions sensors, Velocity sensors, Actuators sensors, Power transmission system.
UNIT II:
Motion Analysis and Control: Manipulator kinematics, position representation forward transformation, homogeneous
transformation, manipulator path control; robot dynamics, configuration of robot controller,
UNIT III:
End Effectors: Grippers - Types, operation, mechanism, force analysis, tools as end effectors consideration in gripper selection
and design. Sensors; Desirable features, tactile, proximity and range sensors, uses sensors in robotics'
Machine Vision: Functions, Sensing and Digitizing-imaging, Devices, Lighting techniques, Analog to digital single conversion, image
storage; Image processing and Analysis-image data reduction, Segmentation feature extraction.
UNIT IV:
Robot Programming: Lead through programming, Robot programming as a path in space, Motion interpolation, WAIT,
SINONAL AND DELAY commands, Branching capabilities and Limitations.
Robot Languages: Textual robot languages, Generation, Robot language structures, Elements in function.
UNIT V:
Robot Cell Design and Control: Robot cell layouts-Robot centered cell, In-line robot dell, Considerations in work
design, Work and control, Inter locks, Error detect ion, Work eel 1 controller.
Robot Application: Material transfer, Machine loading/unloading, Processing operation, Assembly Inspection, Feature
Application.
Text Books & References:
1. Industrial robotics, Mikell P. Groover/McGraw Hill.
2. Robotics, K.S. Fu / McGraw Hill.
39
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (AMS & CAD/CAM) L P C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(AMS41) INDUSTRIAL SAFETY MANAGEMENT
Course Pre Requisites: Elements of Mechanical, Civil, Electrical and Industrial Engineering
Course Objectives:
• To achieve an understanding of principles, various functions and activities of safety
management.
• To communicate effectively information on Health safety and environment facilitating
collaboration with experts across various disciplines so as to create and execute safe
methodology in complex engineering activities.
• To anticipate, recognize, and evaluate hazardous conditions and practices affecting people,
property and the environment, develop and evaluate appropriate strategies designed to
mitigate risk.
• To develop professional and ethical attitude with awareness of current legal issues by
rendering expertise to wide range of industries.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Apply risk management principles to anticipate, identify, evaluate and control physical,
chemical, biological and psychosocial hazards.
• Communicate effectively on health and safety matters among the employees and with society
at large.
• Demonstrate the use of state of the art occupational health and safety practices in controlling
risks of complex engineering activities and understand their limitations.
• Interpret and apply legislative / legal requirements, industry standards, and best practices in
accident prevention programmes in a variety of workplaces.
UNIT I:
Safety Management: Evaluation of modern safety concepts – Safety management functions – safety organization, safety
department – safety committee, safety audit - performance measurements and motivation – employee participation in safety
and productivity.
UNIT II:
Operational Safety: Hot metal Operation – Boiler, pressure vessels – heat treatment shop - gas furnace operation-
electroplating-hot bending pipes – Safety in welding and cutting. Cold-metal Operation- Safety in Machine shop-Cold bending
and chamfering of pipes – metal cutting – shot blasting, grinding, painting – power press and other machines
UNIT III:
Safety Measures: Layout design and material handling - Use of electricity – Management of toxic gases and chemicals –
Industrial fires and prevention – Road safety – highway and urban safety – Safety of sewage disposal and cleaning – Control
of environmental pollution – Managing emergencies in industrial hazards.
UNIT IV:
Accident Prevention: Human side of safety – personal protective equipment – Causes and cost of accidents. Accident
prevention programmes - Specific hazard control strategies - HAZOP – Training and development of employees – First Aid –
Fire fighting devices – Accident reporting investigation.
UNIT V:
Safety, Health, Welfare & Laws: Safety and health standards – Industrial hygiene – occupational diseases prevention -
Welfare facilities – History of legislations related to safety– pressure vessel act- Indian boilers act- The environmental
protection act – Electricity act - Explosive act.
40
Text Books:
1. John V. Grimaldi and Rollin H. Simonds, “ Safety Management” , All India Travellers bookseller, New Delhi – 1989
2. Krishnan N.V. “Safety Management in Industry” Jaico Publishing House, 1996,
References:
1. Occupational safety manual BHEL.
2. Industrial safety and the law by P.M.C. Nair Publisher’s, Trivandrum
3. Managing emergencies in industries, Loss Prevention of India Ltd., Proceedings, 1999
4. Safety security and risk management by U.K. Singh & J.M. Dewan, A.P.H. Publishing Company, New Delhi, 1996.
41
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing Systems & CAD/CAM) L P C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(CAD41) CONCURRENT ENGINEERING
Course Prerequisites: Industrial Engineering, Product development, Manufacturing Engineering.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the concepts of concurrent engineering with respect to its trends, methodologies
and design aspects.
• To study the role of computers in implementing concurrent engineering.
• To achieve the objectives of reduced cost, better quality, and improved delivery performance.
• Design and develop the product, the associated manufacturing equipment and processes.
Course Outcomes:
Student would be able to:
• Identify the trends, techniques of concurrent engineering.
• Apply the use of IT in concurrent engineering.
• Analyze concurrent function deployment, metrics and measures.
• Understand Framework and architecture of concurrent engineering.
UNIT I:
Introduction : Extensive definition of Concurrent Engineering (CE), CE design methodologies, Review of CE techniques like
DFM (Design for manufacture), DFA (Design for assembly), QFD (Quality function deployment), RP (Rapid prototyping), TD
(Total design), for integrating these technologies, organizing for CE, CE tool box, Collaborative product development.
UNIT II:
Use of Information Technology: IT supports, Solid modeling, Product data management, Collaborative product commerce,
Artificial Intelligence, expert systems, Software hardware component design.
UNIT III:
Design Stage: Lifecycle design of products, Opportunities for manufacturing enterprises, Modality of concurrent engineering
design, Automated analysis Idealization control, CE in optimal structural design, Real time constraints.
UNIT IV:
Concurrent Function Deployment: Components of CFD, limitations concurrent product development, concurrent function
development, CFD methodology application
CE Metrics and Measures: Metrics of measurement, life cycle measurement, simulation and analysis, design for X-ability
assessment Product quality assessment.
UNIT V:
Total Value Management: TQM, Total value management, methodology for TVM, major elements of TVM, TVM in product
development process.
Framework and Architecture: Product information management, CE architecture.
Text Books:
1. Integrated Product Development M. M. Anderson and IFS Publications
L Hein
2. Design for Concurrent Engineering J. Cleetus CE Research Centre,
Morgantown
3. Concurrent Engineering Fundamentals: Integrated Product Prasad Prentice hall India
Development
4. Concurrent Engineering in Product Design and Development I. Moustapha New Age International
42
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing Systems) L P C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(AMS42) DESIGN OF EXPERIMENTS
Course Prerequisites: Statistical Methods
Course Objective:
• To prepare the orientation of the student towards planning and to understand the techniques in
design of research and experimentation.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• Understand how to design the experiments
• Perform single factor and two factor factorial designs
• Implement the Taguchi technique using parameter design
UNIT I:
Design of Experiments (DOE): Objectives, strategies, Factorial experimental design, Designing engineering experiments,
basic principles- replication, randomization, blocking, Guidelines for design of experiments, process of DOE
Simple Comparative Experiments-Basic statistical concepts, random variable, sample mean and variance, degrees of
freedom, standard normal distribution, statistical hypothesis, Two sample t-test, P-value, Confidence Intervals, Paired
comparison.
UNIT II:
Single Factor Experiment: Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) for fixed effect model; Total, treatment and error sums of squares,
Decomposition of total sum of squares, ANOVA for Randomized complete block design to control effects of nuisance factors.
UNIT III:
Two factor Factorial Design: Basic definitions and principles, main effect and interaction, response surface and contour
plots, Blocking, General arrangement for a two-factor factorial design; Models- Effects, means and regression
UNIT IV:
Taguchi Techniques for Experimental Design: Taguchi loss function, Average loss, nominal-the-best, smaller-the-best,
larger-the-best, design process steps, selection of factors affecting- methods, factor levels, Test strategies- Full factorial
experiment, fractional factorial experiment, Orthogonal arrays and their selection; Interaction effects
UNIT V:
Parameter Design- Control and noise factors and parameter design, signal to noise ratio, types, parameter design strategy,
tolerance design, robust design
Text Books & References:
1. Montgomery, Douglas C. (2007) – Design & Analysis of Experiments, 5/e. (New Delhi, Wiley Student Edition, Wiley India
Pvt. Ltd.) ISBN: 978-81-265-1048-1
2. Montgomery, Douglas C. & Runger, George C. (2007) – Applied Statistics & Probability for Engineers, 3/e. (New Delhi,
Wiley Student Edition, Wiley India Pvt. Ltd.), ISBN: 978-81- 265-1424-3
3. Ranjit Kumar, (2006), Research Methodology- A Step-By-Step Guide for Beginners, (Pearson Education, Delhi) ISBN:
81-317-04963
4. Trochim, William M.K., (2003), 2/e, Research Methods, (Biztantra, Dreamtech Press, New Delhi), ISBN: 81-7722-372-0
5. Kothari, C.K., (2004), 2/e, Research Methodology- Methods and Techniques, (New Age International, New Delhi)
6. Ross, Philip J. (1996), 2/e, Taguchi Techniques for Quality Engineering, (McGraw Hill, New York)
7. Besterfield, Dale H. (2005), 3/e, Total Quality Management, (Pearson Education, New Delhi)
43
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing Systems) L P C
0 3 2
(AMS52) CAD/CAM LAB
Course Prerequisites: CAD, CAM and Strength of materials.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the ways in which 2D, 3D, part drawings and assembly drawings are made using
appropriate CAD packages.
• Understand the part programming techniques in turning, milling and drilling operations.
• Understand the determination of stresses and strains in systems like trusses and beams.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
▪ Produce part and assembly drawings using CAD packages.
▪ Produce component with different features using CNC machines and machining centers.
▪ Determine the elastic properties in components of the structures.
12 exercises from the following syllabus:
1. CAD:
i) 2D Drawing using Sketcher workbench – 1 exercise containing atleast 3 drawings
ii) 3D modeling using 3D features – 1 exercise containing atleast 3 models
iii) Assembly and drafting – 1 exercise containing 1 assembly
iv) Surface Modeling – 1 exercise
v) Sheet Metal Working – 1 exercise
Softwares: AutoCAD, IronCAD, CATIA, CREO
2. CAM:
i) Part programming for Turning, Facing, Chamfering, Grooving, Step turning, Taper turning operations.
ii) Part programming for Point to point motions, Linear motions, Circular interpolation, Contour motion, Pocket
milling - Circular, Rectangular and Mirror commands.
iii) Part Programming using Fixed or Canned Cycles for Drilling, Peck drilling, Boring, Tapping, Turning, Facing,
Taper turning, Thread cutting.
iv) Generation of tool path, NC part program and its simulation.
v) Machining of small components using CNC Lathe, CNC Mill and CNC Turning center.
Softwares: CNC Offline Simulation, EdgeCAM
3. CAE:
a) Determination of deflection and stresses in 2D and 3D trusses and beams.
b) Determination Principal/ Von-mises stresses and deflections, in plane stress/ plane strain/ axisymmetric
models.
c) Determination of stresses in 3D and shell structures.
Softwares: Ansys, CATIA
44
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
L T/P/D C
I Year- II Sem. M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing Systems)
0 0 4
(AMS62) MINI PROJECT – II
A mini project work shall be carried out on any topic of Advanced Manufacturing and a seminar should be given on the same
along with a brief report.
45
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
L T/P/D C
II Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing Systems)
0 0 4
(AMS63) COMPREHENSIVE VIVA-VOCE
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
II Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing Systems)
L T/P/D C
0 0 8
(AMS71) INTERNSHIP / DISSERTATION PHASE- I
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
II Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing Systems) L T/P/D C
0 0 18
(AMS72) DISSERTATION PHASE - II
46
