SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/mtechsyl/r15mhighway.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE
AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
M. Tech.
HIGHWAY ENGINEERING
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2015-16)
VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous Institute, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
NBA Accreditation for CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT B.Tech. Programmes
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi, Affiliated to JNTUH
Recognized as “College with Potential for Excellence” by UGC
Vignana Jyothi Nagar, Pragathi Nagar, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500 090, TS, India.
Telephone No: 040-2304 2758/59/60, Fax: 040-23042761
E-mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
1
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
Academic Regulations - M.Tech. Programme
(Applicable for the batches admitted from the academic year 2015-2016)
1. Introduction
Academic programmes of the institute are governed by rules and regulations as approved by the Academic
Council of the institute.
These academic rules and regulations are effective from the academic year 2015-16, for the students
admitted into two year post graduate programme offered by the college leading to Master of Technology (M.
Tech.) degree in different specializations offered by the departments of Civil Engineering, Electrical and
Electronics Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Computer
Science and Engineering, Information Technology and Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering.
The M.Tech. degree of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad shall be conferred on
students who are admitted to the programme after fulfilling all the requirements for the award of the degree.
1.1 Eligibility for Admissions
Admission to the above program shall be made subject to the eligibility and qualifications prescribed from
time to time. Admissions shall be made on the basis of GATE Rank and merit rank obtained at an Entrance
Test conducted by the TSSCHE or as decided by TSSCHE subject to reservations prescribed by the
university/ State Government from time to time.
2. Programmes of study
The following two year M.Tech. degree programmes of study are offered by the departments at VNR VJIET.
Department Specializations
1. Advanced Manufacturing Systems
ME 2. Automation
3. CAD/CAM
1. Highway Engineering
CE 2. Structural Engineering
3 Geotechnical Engineering
1. Power Electronics
EEE
2. Power Systems
1. Software Engineering
CSE
2. Computer Science and Engineering
1. VLSI System Design
ECE
2. Embedded Systems
EIE Electronics and Instrumentation
IT Computer Networks and Information Security
2
• ‘ENGLISH’ language is used as the medium of instruction in all the above programmes.
3. Attendance requirements
Each academic year shall be divided into two semesters, each of 90 Instructions days, excluding
examination, evaluation, declaration of results etc.
3.1 A student shall be eligible to appear for the semester end examinations in subject if he / she acquire a
minimum of 75% of attendance in that subject.
3.2 Shortage of attendance up to 10% in any subject (i.e., attendance of 65% and above and below 75%)
in a semester may be condoned by the Institute Academic Committee based on the rules prescribed
by the Academic Council of the Institute from time to time.
3.3 A student shall get minimum required attendance in at least three (03) theory subjects in the present
semester to get promoted to the next semester. In order to qualify for the award of the M.Tech. degree, the
student shall complete all the academic requirements of the subjects, as per the course structure.
3.4 Shortage of attendance below 65% shall in NO case be condoned.
3.5 A stipulated fee shall be payable towards condonation of shortage of attendance.
3.6 In case the student secures less than the required attendance in any subject(s), he shall not be permitted to
appear for the semester end examination in that subject(s). He shall re-register for the subject when offered
next.
4. Evaluation
i. The performance of a student in each semester shall be evaluated subject–wise with a maximum of 100
marks for theory and 100 marks for practical subjects. In addition, mini-project and comprehensive
viva-voce shall be evaluated for 100 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects, the distribution shall be 40 marks for mid-term evaluation and 60 marks
for the semester end examination.
❖ Mid-Term Evaluation (40 M):
Mid-term evaluation consists of mid-term examination (30 M) and assignment/objective test/ case
study/course project (10 M).
➢ Mid-term examination (30 M):
• For theory subjects, two mid-term examinations shall be conducted in each semester as per the
academic calendar. Each mid-term examination shall be evaluated for 30 marks.
• Pattern of Mid-term examination:
3 X 10M = 30 M (three internal choice questions one from each UNIT shall be given, the student has to
answer ONE question from each UNIT)
• There shall be TWO mid-term examinations for each subject and the average of two mid-term
examinations shall be considered for calculating final mid-term examination marks in that
subject.
3
➢ Assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project (10 M):
• Two assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project shall be given to the students covering the
syllabus of first mid-term and second mid-term examinations respectively and evaluated for 10 marks
each.
• The first assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project shall be submitted before first mid-term
examination and the second one shall be submitted before second mid-term examination.
• The average of 2 assignments shall be taken as final assignment marks.
iii. For practical subjects, there shall be a continuous evaluation during the semester for 40 marks and 60
marks for semester end examination. Out of the 40 marks, day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be
evaluated for 10 marks, and 15 marks for practical examination and 15 marks for laboratory record.
❖ Semester End Examination (60 M):
(a) Theory Courses
Question paper pattern for semester end examination (60 Marks)
• Paper shall consist of 05 questions of 10 marks each. (05X12M = 60 M)
• There shall be 01 question from each unit with internal choice.
(b) Practical Courses
Each laboratory course shall be evaluated for 60 marks. The semester end examination shall be conducted
by two examiners, one Internal and other external concerned with the subject of the same / other
department / Industry. The evaluation shall be as per the standard format.
4.1. Evaluation of Mini-Project: There shall be two presentations during the first year, one in each semester.
For mini-project 1 and mini-project 2, a student under the supervision of a faculty member, shall collect the
literature on a topic, critically review the literature, carry out the mini-project, submit it to the department in a
report form and shall make an oral presentation before the departmental Project Review Committee (PRC).
The Departmental PRC consists of Head of the Department, supervisor and one senior faculty member of
the department. For each mini-project there shall be only internal evaluation of 100 marks. A student has to
secure a minimum of 50% to be declared successful.
4.2. There shall be a comprehensive viva-voce in II year I semester. The comprehensive viva- Voce shall be
conducted by a committee consisting of Head of the Department and two senior faculty members of the
department. The comprehensive viva-voce is aimed to assess the students’ understanding in various
subjects studied during the M.Tech. programme of study. The comprehensive viva-voce shall be evaluated
for 100 marks by the committee. There are no internal marks for the comprehensive viva-voce. A student
must secure a minimum of 50% to be declared successful.
4.3. A student shall be deemed to have secured the minimum academic requirement in a subject if he secures a
minimum of 40% of marks in the semester end examination and a minimum aggregate of 50% of the total
marks in the semester end examination and mid-term evaluation taken together.
4
4.4. A student shall be given one chance to re-register, after completion of the course work, for each subject,
provided the internal marks secured by a student are less than 50% and he has failed in the semester end
examination. In such a case student may re-register for the subject(s) and secure required minimum
attendance. Attendance in the re-registered subject(s) has to be calculated separately to become eligible to
write the end examination in the re-registered subject(s). Re-registration for the subjects is allowed only if
that particular re-registration subjects are the hindrance for the award of Degree. Re-registration is allowed
in this case provided the student doesn’t have any subject(s) yet to pass other than the re-registration
subjects where the internal marks are less than 50% with prior permission.
4.5. Laboratory examination for M.Tech. courses must be conducted with two examiners, one of them being
laboratory class teacher and second examiner shall be a teacher of same specialization either external or a
teacher from the same department other than the teacher who conducted laboratory classes for that batch.
5. Evaluation of Project / Dissertation Work.
5.1 Registration of Project Work: A student shall be permitted to register for the project work after satisfying
the attendance requirement of all the subjects (theory and practical subjects).
5.2 A Project Review Committee (PRC) shall be constituted with at least four members namely HOD, PG
coordinator of the M.Tech. programme, project supervisor and one senior faculty member of same
specialization.
5.3 After getting permission as per 5.1, a student has to submit, in consultation with the project supervisor, the
title, objective and plan of action of his project work to the Departmental PRC for its approval. Only after
obtaining the approval of PRC, the student can initiate the project work.
5.4 If a student wishes to change his supervisor or topic of the project he can do so with the approval of PRC.
However, the committee shall examine whether the change of topic/supervisor leads to a major change of
his initial plans of project proposal. If so, the date of registration for the project work shall be the date of
change of supervisor or topic as the case may be.
5.5 Internal evaluation of the project shall be on the basis of the seminars (Project reviews) conducted during
the second year by the PRC. A student shall submit draft report in a spiral bound copy form.
5.6 The work on the project shall be initiated in the beginning of the second year and the duration of project is
for two semesters. A student is permitted to submit Project work only after successful completion of theory
and practical course with the approval of PRC not earlier than 240 days from the date of registration of the
project work. For the approval of PRC the student shall submit the draft copy of thesis to the Head of the
Department (Through project supervisor and PG coordinator) and shall make an oral presentation before
the PRC.
The student is eligible to submit project work if he has published at least one paper covering 70% of the
project work and presented his project work in Show and Tell activity.
5
5.7 After approval of PRC, every student has to submit three copies of the project dissertation certified by the
supervisor to the Department.
5.8 The dissertation shall be adjudicated by one examiner selected by the Chief Superintendent. For this, HOD
shall submit a panel of 3/ 5 examiners, who are eminent in that field with the help of the concerned guide.
5.9 If the report of the examiner is not favourable, the student shall revise and resubmit the Dissertation, within
the time frame as prescribed by PRC. If the report of the examiner is unfavourable again, the dissertation
shall be summarily rejected.
5.10 If the report of the examiner is favorable, viva-voce examination shall be conducted by a board consisting of
the project supervisor, Head of the Department and the external examiner who adjudicated the Thesis. The
Board shall jointly report students work as:
A. Excellent
B. Good
C. Satisfactory
D. Unsatisfactory
Head of the Department shall coordinate and make arrangements for the conduct of viva-voce examination.
The student has to secure any one of the grades as Excellent, Good or Satisfactory on his dissertation and
viva-voce. If the report of the viva-voce is unsatisfactory, the student shall retake the viva-voce examination
after three months, making modifications as suggested. If he fails to get a satisfactory report at the second
viva-voce examination, he has to re-register for the project work as mentioned in clause 5.1. However, the
student may select a new guide or new topic or both with the approval of the PRC and submit the project
dissertation with a minimum of 240 days from the date of re-registration. Of course, this shall not prejudice
the clause 6.1 below.
6. Award of Degree and Class
A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the M.Tech. degree, if he pursues a course of study and
complete it successfully for not less than two academic years and not more than four academic years.
6.1 A student, who fails to fulfil all the academic requirements for the award of the degree within four academic
years from the year of his admission, for any reason whatsoever, shall forfeit his seat in M.Tech. Course.
6.2 A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 84 credits and
earn 84 credits. Marks obtained in all 86 credits shall be considered for the calculation of Cumulative
Grade Point Average (CGPA).
6.3 CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points in two year M.Tech. degree programme is as follows:
• Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the total marks obtained in mid-term evaluation and
semester end examinations.
6
• Grades and Grade points are assigned as given below.
Grade Points(GP)
Marks Obtained Grade Description of Grade
Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 B Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 C Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 D Pass 6.00
<50 F Fail
Not Appeared the Exam(s) N Absent
The student is eligible for the award of the M.Tech degree with the class as mentioned in the following table.
CGPA Class
>= 8.0 First Class with Distinction
>= 7.0 and <8.0 First Class
>= 6.0 and < 7.0 Second Class
➢ Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
• The performance of each student at the end of the each semester shall be indicated in terms of SGPA. The
SGPA shall be calculated as below:
Where Ci = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘i’
Gi = Grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to the subject ‘i’
i = 1,2,…..p represent the number of subjects in a particular semester
Note: SGPA is calculated and awarded for the students who pass all the courses in a semester.
7
➢ Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA):
The CGPA of a student for the entire programme shall be calculated as given below:
• Assessment of the overall performance of a student shall be obtained by calculating Cumulative Grade
Point Average (CGPA), which is weighted average of the grade points obtained in all subjects during the
course of study.
Where Cj = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘j’
Gj = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to that subject ‘j’
j = 1,2,….m represent the number of subjects of the entire program.
• Grade lower than D in any subject shall not be considered for CGPA calculation. The CGPA shall be
awarded only when the student acquires the required number of credits prescribed for the program.
➢ Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
7. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to the Institute, or if any case of indiscipline is pending against him, the
result of the student may be withheld and he shall not be allowed into the next higher semester. The award
or issue of the provisional certificate and the degree may also be withheld in such cases. This delay shall
not prejudice clauses Nos.6.0 and 6.1.
8. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or any other academic
requirements, may be considered for readmission as and when they become eligible. They have to take up
Equivalent subjects, as substitute subjects in place of repeated subjects as decided by the Chairman of the
BoS of the respective departments. He/She shall be admitted under the regulation of the batch in which
he/she is readmitted.
9. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each semester shall be 90 instruction days.
8
10. General
10.1 The academic regulations should be read as a whole for purpose of any interpretation.
10.2 In case of any doubt or ambiguity in the interpretation of the above rules, the decision of the Principal is
final.
10.3 The Institute may change or amend the academic regulations and syllabi at any time and the changes and
amendments made shall be applicable to all the students with effect from the date notified by the Institute.
10.4 Wherever the words he, him or his occur, they shall also include she, her and hers.
11. Supplementary Examination
Supplementary examinations shall be conducted along with regular semester end examinations. (During
even semester regular examinations, supplementary examinations of odd Semester and during odd
semester regular examinations, supplementary examinations of even semester shall be conducted).
9
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
I. To provide the student with a solid foundation in Planning, Design, Construction,
Operation and Maintenance of highway projects in the context of environmental,
economic and social requirements.
II. To equip students with modern concepts and tools which would enable them to become
globally competent professionals and fitting into a broad range of career opportunities
in highway research and industry.
III. To prepare the students in lifelong learning for professional advancement, that would
help them to execute complex transportation projects with professional ethics and social
responsibilities.
Program Outcomes (POs)
The program demonstrates that:
a. Engineering Knowledge: The student is capable of applying the principles of basic
science, engineering and optimization techniques to solve highway engineering problems.
b. Problem Analysis: The Graduates will possess critical thinking skills, problem solving
abilities and familiarity with the computational procedures essential to the field.
c. Design & Development of Solutions: The student is able to plan, analyze, design,
synthesize and execute complex highway infrastructure projects considering societal and
environmental considerations.
d. Conduct investigations of complex problems: The student will use research based
knowledge and methods to design, conduct experiments and to analyze and interpret
experimental data to provide sustainable engineering solutions for highway related societal
problems in local and global context.
e. Modern Tool Usage: The student will get hands on training in Modern Highway
Engineering software’s and modern equipment.
10
f. The Engineer and Society: The Students will apply reasoning informed by the appropriate
knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues.
g. Environment and Sustainability: As the students possess substantial knowledge in multi
disciplinary subjects, they will be able to plan various projects keeping in view its
environmental effects on other related fields.
h. Ethics: The student will practice and apply professional skills with social responsibility
i. Individual and Team work: The Graduate can functions effectively in multi-disciplinary
projects and demonstrate leadership qualities.
j. Communication: The Student will excel in expressing ideas, writing technical reports with
good communication and managerial skills.
k. Project Management and Finance: The Graduates will demonstrate knowledge and
understanding of the critical issues for professional practices such as the
procurement of works, interaction with contractors during the construction phase of a
project, the finance management and managerial capabilities.
l. Life-Long learning: The student engages in lifelong learning for professional
advancement.
11
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
M.TECH. (HIGHWAY ENGINEERING)
(R15 Regulation)
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Code Group Subject L T/P/D Credits
Pavement Material
HIG01 3 1 4
Characterization
Core Pavement Analysis &
HIG02 3 1 4
Design
HIG03 Highway Geometric Design 3 1 4
Highway Project
HIG11 3 0
Formulation & Economics
Environmental Impact
HIG12 Assessment for highway 3 0
projects
Road Safety & Traffic
HIG13 Elective - I 3 0
Management 3 + 3
&
Evaluation and
HIG14 Elective – II 3 0
Strengthening of Pavements
Basket
Advanced Concrete
STR11 3 0
Technology
Principles of Bridge
STR16 3 0
Engineering
Computer based numerical
MTH31 3 0
methods
Open Elective -I Professional & Technical 3
ENG32 3 0
Communication
STR31 Energy Efficient Buildings 3 0
HIG51 Lab Pavement Engineering Lab 0 3 2
HIG61 Mini Project - I 0 0 4
Total 18 6 27
12
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Code Group Subject L P Credits
Pavement Management
HIG04 3 1 4
Systems
HIG05 Core Traffic Engineering 3 1 4
Urban Transportation
HIG06 3 1 4
Planning
HIG21 Remote Sensing & GIS 3 0
HIG22 Rural Road Technology 3 0
Intelligent Transportation
HIG23 Elective - III 3 0
Systems
&
Highway Construction and 3 + 3
HIG24 Elective – IV 3 0
Quality Control
Basket
HIG25 Airport Planning & Design
3 0
GTE06 Engineering of Ground
Optimization Techniques in
STR41 3 0
Engineering
Construction Technology
HIG41 Open Elective – II 3 0 3
and Project Management
Ground foundation and
GTE41 3 0
structure interaction
Highway Material
HIG52 Lab Characterization & Traffic 0 3 2
Simulation Lab
HIG62 Mini Project - II 0 0 4
Total 18 6 27
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Code Group Subject L P Credits
HIG63 Comprehensive Viva-Voice 0 0 4
HIG71 Internship / Dissertation Phase - I 0 0 8
Total 0 0 12
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Code Group Subject L P Credits
HIG72 Dissertation Phase - II 0 0 18
Total 0 0 18
13
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(HIG 01) PAVEMENT MATERIAL CHARACTERIZATION
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Understand properties and tests performed on Sub grade soil, aggregates.
• Learn different Soil Stabilization Techniques.
• Appreciate different tests performed on Bitumen and techniques to improve its properties.
• Gain knowledge on quality of cements its IRC methods for concrete mix design and role of
Admixtures.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Explain properties and tests performed on sub grade soil, aggregate, bitumen and
cement.
• Understand soil stabilization and how it is done.
• Comprehend how to improve bitumen properties by modification techniques
• Aware of advanced concrete used in road construction, role of admixtures and design of
concrete mixes.
UNIT I:
Sub- grade Soil Characterization: Properties of sub-grade layers; different types of soils,
Mechanical response of soil; Soil Classification; Index and other basic properties of soil; A
critical look at the different laboratory and in-situ procedures for evaluating the mechanical
properties of soils viz. SPT, DCPT, CPT, CBR, Plate Load test & resilient modulus; Suitability
of different type of soil for the construction of highway embankments and pavement layers; Field
compaction and control. Dynamic properties of soil: FWD test.
UNIT II:
Introduction to Soil Stabilization: Physical and Chemical modification: Stabilization with
admixtures like cement, lime, calcium chloride, fly ash and bitumen. Grouting: Categories of
grouting, Art of grouting, Grout materials, Grouting techniques and control. Introduction to
Ground improvement techniques; Introduction to Geo textiles and synthetics applications.
UNIT III:
Aggregate Characterization: Origin, Classification, Types of aggregates; Sampling of
aggregates; Mechanical and shape properties of aggregates, Aggregate texture and skid
resistance, polishing of aggregates; Proportioning and Blending of aggregates: Super pave
gradation, Fuller and Thompson’s Equation, 0.45 power maximum density graph; Use of locally
available materials in lieu of aggregates.
14
UNIT IV:
Bitumen and Bituminous Concrete Mix Characterization: Bitumen sources and
manufacturing, Chemistry of bitumen, bitumen structure, Rheology of bitumen, Elastic modulus,
Dynamic modulus, visco-elastic and fatigue properties, creep test, stiffness modulus of bitumen
mixes using shell nomographs; Resilient, Diametral Resilient and Complex (Dynamic) Moduli of
Bituminous Mixes, Permanent Deformation Parameters and other Properties. Modified bitumen:
Crumb Rubber Modified bitumen, Natural rubber modified bitumen, polymer modified bitumen;
Introduction to emulsified bitumen and its characterization; Long term and short term ageing and
its effect on bitumen performance, Tests to simulate ageing of bitumen viz. RTFOT and PAV.
Desirable properties of bituminous mixes, Design of bituminous mixes: Modified Marshall’s
specifications, Hubbard Field method of mix design, Hveem’s method of mix design;
Introduction to super pave mix design procedure
UNIT V:
Cement and Cement Concrete Mix Characterization: Types of cements and basic cement
properties, Special cements; Quality tests on cement; Tests on cement concrete including
compressive strength, flexural strength, modulus of elasticity and fatigue properties; Introduction
to advanced concretes like self compacted concrete, Light weight concrete, Roller Compacted
Concrete for pavement application; IS method of cement concrete mix design with case studies;
Role of different admixtures in cement concrete performance; Joint filers for Jointed Plain
Cement Concrete Pavements and their characterization; Nano technology applications in cement
concrete.
Text Books:
1. Asphalt Institute. Mix Design Methods – For Asphalt Concrete and Other Hot-Mix Types
Manual Series No. 2 (MS-2), Asphalt Institute, Kentucky, USA, 1997.
2. Highway Materials, Soils and Concretes by Atkins, N. Harold, Fourth Edition, 1980,
Prentice-Hall.
References:
1. Highway Materials by Kerbs Robert D. and Richard D. Walker, McGraw-Hill, 1971.
2. Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. Specifications for Road and Bridge Works,
Fifth Revision, Indian Roads Congress, New Delhi, India
3. “The Shell Bitumen Handbook”, by Read, J. And Whiteoak, D., Fifth edition, Shell Bitumen,
Thomas, Telford Publishing, London 2003
4. Mallick, R.B. and T. El-Korchi Pavement Engineering – Principles and Practice, CRC
Press, Taylor and Francis Group, Florida, USA, 2009
15
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(HIG 02) PAVEMENT ANALYSES & DESIGN
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Understand the basic modeling concepts used to analyze flexible and rigid pavements.
• Appreciate pavement management concepts to better manage road pavement.
• Apply the various types of highway appurtenance to enhance the safety of motorists.
• Learn on rigid pavement design components
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Understand the Design factors flexible and rigid pavements
• Explain the assumptions in pavement layers and carryout design of flexible and rigid
pavement.
• Discriminate different methods of flexible pavement design
• Different methods of rigid pavement design
UNIT I:
Introduction: Road Pavements and pavement layers - types, functions, choice Factors affecting
design and performance of flexible and rigid pavements – Pavement design factors, loads – axle
load distribution, ESWL, EWL,VDF due to varying loads, Sub grade support - CBR and plate
bearing tests, Resilient Modulus, fatigue tests, permanent deformation Pavement material
Characteristics, climatic, drainage and environmental factors, their effects and evaluation.
UNIT II:
Stresses and Deflection / Strain in Flexible Pavements: Application of elastic theory, stresses,
deflections / strains in single, two and three layer system, Applications in pavement design,
Problems.
UNIT III:
Flexible Pavement Design: Empirical, semi empirical and theoretical design approaches,
principle, advantages and application. Outline of other common design methods such as
AASHTO and Asphalt Institute methods, Problems.
UNIT IV:
Stresses in Rigid Pavements: Types of stresses and causes; Introduction to Westergaard’s
equation for calculation of stresses in rigid pavements due to wheel loads and temperature;
Considerations in rigid pavement analysis, wheel load stresses, warping stresses, frictional
stresses, combined stresses.
16
UNIT V:
Rigid Pavement Design: Design of cement concrete pavements for highways; PCA and ACI
Methods: Design of joints, reinforcements, tie bars, dowel bars and slab thickness as per IRC
guidelines. Design features of continuously reinforced concrete pavements, Problems.
Text Books:
1. Huang, Y.H. Pavement Analysis and Design, Second Edition, Dorling Kindersley (India)
Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi, India, 2008.
2. Asphalt Institute. Thickness Design – Asphalt Pavements for Highways and Streets
Manual Series No. 1 (MS-1), Asphalt Institute, Kentucky, USA, 1999.
References:
1. Principles of Pavement Design” by Yoder and Witczak, John Wiley and sons Inc(second
edition) 1975
2. Modern Pavement Management” by W.Ronald Hudson, Ralph Haas and Zeniswki Mc
Graw Hill and Co
3. IRC Design guides, IRC 37-2012, IRC 81-1997, IRC 58 – 2011, IRC 59 – 1976, IRC
101-1988, MORTH, 5th Edition, New Delhi, 2013
4. Design & Performance of Road Pavements” David Croney, Paul Croney, Mc Graw hill
Book Co.
17
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(HIG 03) HIGHWAY GEOMETRIC DESIGN
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Understand the various factors affecting in pavement design
• Knowledge on design aspects and methods for rural and urban roads.
• Introduce students the principal of highway design, road safety and highway
construction materials.
• Start applying these skills to design roads and select material for road construction.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Apply knowledge in fixation of ideal alignment and design of highway
• Describe design element: sight distance, horizontal curvature, super elevation, grades,
visibility on vertical curves, cross section elements
• Use fundamental physics and mathematical knowledge in deriving geometric design
equations
• Plan surveys, preparation of survey forms and data collection from field for highway
design
UNIT I:
Highway System: Functional Classification of Highway System, Highway Design Controls:
Topography, Driver characteristics, Vehicle Characteristics, Traffic, Capacity and Level of
Service, Design Speed. Objectives of Geometric Design. Cross Section Elements: IRC Design
specifications, Pavement Surface characteristics: Skid Resistance, Road Roughness; Camber,
Objectives, design standards. Specifications for hill roads.
UNIT II:
Geometric Design of Highway Element: Sight distances: Objectives, Types, factors affecting,
Problems on Sight distance, Alignment: Types, Objective and Factors affecting alignment,
Horizontal alignment: Objectives, design Criteria, super-elevation, extra widening and Design of
transition curves. Vertical alignment: Objectives, design Criteria, Types of gradient, Grade
Compensation, design of summit and valley curves, combination of vertical and horizontal
alignment, design of expressways, IRC standards and guidelines for design and Problems.
UNIT III:
Intersection Design: Introduction of Intersection Design: Objectives, Types of Intersections,
Design Principles for Intersections. Design of At-grade Intersections: Objectives,
Channelization, Traffic Islands and Design standards for intersection. Design of Rotary
Intersection: Objectives, Advantages and Disadvantages and determining the capacity. Grade
separated Interchanges: Objectives, Types, warrants and Design standards.
18
UNIT IV:
Highway Design and Specifications: Design Considerations: Design considerations for rural,
urban arterials, expressways, and other rural Roads. Urban roads -design speeds, volumes, levels
of service. IRC Specification for Expressway and Rural Roads.
UNIT V:
Miscellaneous Facilities on Highway: Pedestrian facilities: Objectives of Pedestrian facilities,
Types of Pedestrian facilities on Urban Roads and IRC Specification. Cycle Tracks: Objectives,
Types of cycle track, Guidelines and IRC Design standards Bus bays: Objectives, Types,
Guidelines and IRC Design standards. Parking facilities: Objectives, Types, Guidelines and IRC
Design standards.
Text Books:
1. Principles and Practice of Highway Engineering by L.R.Kadiyali and N.B.Lal, Khanna, 7th
edition, 2007
2. Traffic Engineering and Transportation Planning by L.R. Kadiyali and N.B.Lal, Khanna
Publishers, 2009
References:
1. Highway Engineering by S.K. Khanna, C.E.G. Justo and Veeraraghavan A 10th Ed., Nem
Chand & Bros, 2013.
2. Transportation Engineering-An introduction by C. JotinKhisty and B.KentLall, Prentice-
Hall, India, 2008
3. IRC Codes for Signs, Markings and Mixed Traffic Control in Urban Areas.
4. Design codes IRC: SP: 41-1994, IRC SP: 31-1992, IRC 43-1994, Indian Roads Congress,
New Delhi. Highway Capacity Manual 2010, Transportation Research Board
19
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(HIG 11) HIGHWAY PROJECT FORMULATION & ECONOMICS
(Elective – I / Elective -II)
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Introduced to economic evaluation concepts, preparation of detailed project report
• Formulate in understanding and computation of road user cost for evaluation of highway
projects
• Analyze basic methods of economic analysis carried for transportation engineering
projects
• Recognize the importance of EIA for transportation engineering projects
Course Outcomes:
At the end of the course, students will be able to:
• Classify the requirements in project formulation, Non-monetary and monetary,
development of cash flow diagrams, Preparation of Project and components in Highway
Planning
• Fundamental knowledge calculation of road user costs methodologies for economic
evaluation of accidents
• Estimate transportation project feasibility using economic methods.
• Explain factors Environmental impact assessment for highway projects.
UNIT I:
Project Formulation- Requirements in project formulation, Criteria fixation, Components of
project, Non-monetary and monetary Criteria in formulation of project, Decision making Criteria
input in Project formulation. Preparation of DPR - Guidelines , Transport Projects and
development of cash flow diagrams, Cost and benefit components, Discounting criteria,
Preparation of Project, Highway Planning, Traffic infrastructure, Project formulation, Road
Network project development. Need for Economic Evaluation; Principles of economic
evaluation; Welfare economics; Social costs, Vest change, Rate of return
UNIT II:
Road user costs - Value of Travel time Savings - Economic concept of evaluation of travel time
savings; Issues connected with evaluation of travel time savings. Vehicle operating costs-
Components of VOC, Road User Cost study in India; Accident costs; Methodologies for
economic evaluation of an accident ; Factors involved, Basic methods of economic analysis
UNIT III:
Basic methods of economic analysis; Equivalent Uniform Annual Cost Method; Present worth of
cost method; Equivalent uniform annual net return method; Net present value method; Benefit
20
cost ratio method; Rate of Return Method. Applications of these methods to highway projects.
UNIT IV:
Project appraisal by shadow pricing with case studies. Toll system analysis, Financial analysis ;
Budgeting
UNIT V:
Environmental impact assessment: Basic Concepts, Objectives, Transportation Related
Environmental Impacts – Vehicular Impacts – Safety and Capacity Impacts – Roadway Impacts
– Construction Impacts, Environmental Impact Assessment – Environmental Impact Statement,
Environment Audit, Typical case studies
Text Books:
1. Transportation Engineering Economics by Heggie. I. G.; Mc Graw Hill Publishers, 1972.
2. Economic Analysis for Highways by Winfrey. R; International Textbook; 1st edition, 1969
References:
1. Traffic Engineering and Transport Planning by L.R Kadiyali, Khanna Publishers, 2000
2. Road User Cost Study, CRRI
3. IRC: SP: 30-1993, Manual on Economic Evaluation of Highway Projects in India, IRC
Publications, New Delhi.
4. IRC: SP: 19; 2001, Manual For Survey, Investigation & Preparation of Road Projects, IRC
Publications, New Delhi.
21
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(HIG 12) ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT FOR TRANSPORTATION
PROJECTS
(Elective – I / Elective -II)
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Assess environmental impacts of road traffic under various policy options Estimate air
pollution concentrations as a function of emission, meteorology, topography and they
built environment from road traffic
• Promote the integration of all forms of transport and land use planning, leading to a
better, more efficient transport system
• Plan, develop and manage land transport system to support a quality environment while
making optimal use of our transport and safeguarding the well-being of the travelling
public
• Deliver an effective land transport network that is integrated, efficient, cost-effective and
sustainable to meet the nation’s needs
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Understand national and international contexts on transport and the environment. Basic
understanding of the concepts of traffic and environment management for sustainability
• Knowledge of policies and reports which have a strong bearing on local and global air
pollution and sustainability issues
• Appreciate the multiple complexities of successful planning, data collection and analysis
and identification of improvements
• Realize to current issues relating to traffic flow, road safety and air quality
UNIT I:
Introduction: Environment and its interaction with human activities – Environmental
imbalances. Attributes, Impacts, 'Indicators and Measurements - Concept of Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIA); Environmental Impact Statement, Objectives of EIA, Advantages and
Limitations of EIA
UNIT II:
Environmental Indicators: Indicators for climate - Indicators for terrestrial subsystems -
Indicators for aquatic subsystems - Selection of indicators - Socio-economic indicators – Basic
information - Indicators for economy - Social indicators - Indicators for health and nutrition -
Cultural indicators - Selection of indicators.
22
UNIT III:
Environmental issues: Water resource development - Land use - Soil erosion C1nd their short
and long term effects - Disturbance and long term impacts - Changes in quantity and quality of
flow ¬Sedimentation – Environmental impact assessment of water resource development
structures – Case studies, Water Quality Impact Assessment - Attributes, Water Quality Impact
Assessment of Water
UNIT IV:
Project Resources: Data Requirements of Water Quality Impact Assessment for Dams, Impacts
of Damson Environment, Case Studies. Environmental Issues in Industrial Development: On-site
and Off-site impacts during various stages of industrial development, Long term climatic
changes, Green house effect, Industrial effluents and their impaction natural cycle,
Environmental impact of Highways, Mining and Energy development
UNIT V:
Methodologies for Carrying Environmental Impact Assessment: Overview of Methodologies
.Ad hoc, Checklist, Matrix, Network, Overlays, Benefit Cost Analysis, Choosing a Methodology,
Review Criteria.
Text Books:
1. Environmental Impact Assessment by Canter, L.W., McGraw Hill Pub. Co., New York,
1997
2. Environmental Analysis of Transportation Systems by Louis Franklin Cohen and Gary
Richard Mc Voy, John Wiley & Sons, 1982
References:
1. Environmental Impact Analysis by Jain, R.K., Urban, L.V., Stracy, G.S., an Nostrand
Reinhold Co., New York, 1991
2. Environmental Fate and Transport Analysis with Compartment Modeling by Keith W. Little,
CRC Press, Taylor & Francis Group, 2012.
3. NCHRP Report 541. Consideration of Environmental Factors in Transportation Systems
Planning, TRB, 2005.
4. NCHRP Synthesis 272, Best Management Practices for Environmental Issues Related to
Highway and Street Maintenance: A Synthesis of Highway Practice, National Research
Council, TRB, 1999
23
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M. Tech. (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(HIG 13) ROAD SAFETY & TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT
(Elective – I / Elective -II)
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Apply the principles of a systems approach to the analysis of risk factors for road traffic
injuries.
• Apply methods for reducing traffic impacts on commUNITies such as traffic calming
strategies, accident reductions and parking management.
• Discuss the key risk factors for road traffic injuries.
• Understand the role of ITS in Dynamic Traffic Management
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Explain the factors for road traffic injuries.
• Analyze and provide solutions for traffic calming and parking management.
• Evaluate the risk factors for road traffic injuries.
• Understand the role of ITS in Dynamic Traffic Management.
UNIT I:
Road Accidents: Causes, Scientific investigations and data collection, Analysis of individual
accidents to arrive at real causes, statistical methods of analysis of accident data, Basic concepts
of Road accident statistics, safety performance function: the empirical Bayes method
Identification of Hazards road location. Application of computer analysis of accident.
UNIT II:
Safety in Road Design: Operating the road network for safety, highway operation and counter
measures, road safety audit, principles – procedures and practice, code of good practice and
checklist, vehicle design factors, driver and Friction characteristics influencing road safety.
UNIT III:
Road Signs and Traffic Signals: Classifications, location of signs, measures of sign
effectiveness, Types of visual perception, sign regulations, sign visibility sign variables, text
versus symbols. Road Markings: Role of Road marking, classification, visibility. Traffic Signals
need, signal face, Illumination and location of signals, factors affecting signal design, pedestrian
safety, fixed and vehicle actuated signals, Design of signals, Area Traffic control. Delineators,
Traffic Impact Attenuators, Road Side rest areas, safety Barriers, Traffic Aid Posts.
24
UNIT IV:
Traffic Management Techniques: Integrated Safety improvement and Traffic Calming
Schemes, speed and load limit, Traffic light, safety cameras, Test on driver and vehicles,
pedestrian safety issues, parking, Parking enforcement and its influences on accidents. Travel
demand management; Method of Traffic management measures: Restrictions of Turning
movements, One-way streets, Tidal Flow operation methods, Exclusive bus lanes and closing
side – streets; latest tools and techniques used for road safety and traffic management. Road
safety issues and various measures for road safety; Legislation, Enforcement, Education and
Propaganda, Air quality, Noise and Energy Impacts; Cost Road Accidents.
UNIT V:
Incident Management: Introduction, characteristics of traffic incidents, types of incidents,
Impacts, Incident management process, Incident traffic management; applications of ITS:
Motorist information, Equipment used; Planning effective Incident management program, Best
practice in Incident management programs. National importance of survival of Transportation
systems during and after disasters especially cyclones, earth quakes, floods etc. and manmade
disasters like sabotage, terrorism etc.
Text Books:
1. Observational Before-After Studies in Road Safety by Ezra Hauer, Pergamon Press, 1997
(reprinted 2002).
2. Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE), the Traffic Safety Toolbox: A Primer on Traffic
Safety, ITE, 1999.
References:
1. Traffic Collision Investigation by J. Stannard Baker, Northwestern University Center for
2. Public Safety, 2002
3. Traffic Control and Road Accident Prevention by Popkess C.A.Chapman and Hall,
1997
4. The Handbook of Road Safety Measures by Rune Elvik and Truls V, Elsevier, 2004.
5. Statistical and Econometric Methods for Transportation Data Analysis by Simon
Washington, Matthew K, and Fred Mannering, Chapman & Hall/CRC Press, 2003.
25
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M. Tech. (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(HIG 14) EVALUATION AND STRENGTHENING OF PAVEMENTS
(Elective – I / Elective -II)
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Learn the importance of evaluation and strengthening of pavements
• Explains the stress and strains for various types of pavements and its evaluation
procedures
• Reveals the structural and functional requirements of pavements along with its failures
• Understands overlay designs concepts performed through BBD and FWD
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Assess how functional and structural pavements occurs
• Understands different types of distress in pavements
• Perform BBD and FWD test for evaluation of pavements
• Explains the different types of pavement failures
UNIT I:
Introduction: Highway and airport pavements, Types and component parts of pavements, their
differences - Factors affecting design and performance of pavements.
UNIT II:
Stresses and Deflections in Flexible & Rigid Pavements: Stresses and deflections in
homogeneous masses. Wheel load stresses, various factors in traffic wheel loads; ESWL and
EWL factors. Pavement behavior under transient traffic loads; Factors affecting design and
performance of pavements. Types of stresses and causes, factors influencing the stresses; general
considerations in rigid pavement analysis, EWL, wheel load stresses, warping stresses, frictional
stresses, combined stresses.
UNIT III:
Structural and Functional Requirements of Flexible and Rigid Pavements: Pavement
distress; different types of failures & its causes – structural & functional safety – repair and
retrofitting of road structures.
26
UNIT IV:
Evaluation of Surface Condition: Methods of measurement of skid resistance, unevenness, ruts
and cracks. Pavement surface condition evaluation by physical measurements, by riding comfort
and other methods; their applications.
UNIT V:
Evaluation of Pavement Structural Condition: Evaluation by non-destructive tests such as
FWD, Benkelman Beam rebound deflection using BBD for flexible overlay design, Plate load
test, wave propagation and other methods of load tests; evaluation by destructive test methods,
and specimen testing.
Text Books:
1. Principles of Pavement Design' by Yoder, E.J., and Witczak, 2nd ed. John Wiley and Sons,
1975.
2. The design and performance of road pavements by Croney, D. and P. Croney, McGraw-Hill
Book Company, London, UK, 1991
References:
1. Test Book of Highway Engineering’ by Khanna and Justo, Nem chand brothers, Roorkee-
2004.
2. Pavement Management System' by Haas and Hudson McGraw Hill Book Co., New York,
1994.
3. Pavement Design and Materials by Papagiannakis, A.T. and E.A. Masad, John Wiley and
Sons, New Jersey, USA, 2008.
4. Pavement Engineering – Principles and Practice by Mallick, R.B. and T. El-Korchi CRC
Press, Taylor and Francis Group, Florida, USA, 2009.
27
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M. Tech. (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(STR11) ADVANCED CONCRETE TECHNOLOGY
(Elective – I / Elective -II)
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Adopt the correct type of cement to suit the particular requirements depending on
exposure conditions.
• Design economic concrete mix proportion for the given exposure conditions and with the
available materials, to the extent possible for the desired strength.
• Address various problems that arise during concreting operations.
• Judge and resolve any controversy that arises regarding material suitability confidently
by substantiating through field and laboratory tests.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Determine the properties of concrete ingredients i.e. cement, sand, coarse aggregate by
conducting different tests and decide the suitability.
• Recognize the effects of the rheology and early age properties of concrete on its long-
term behavior.
• Use appropriate chemical admixtures and mineral additives for achieving the desired
properties.
• Use advanced laboratory techniques to assess the strength characteristics after disasters.
UNIT I:
Concrete Making Materials: Cement – Bogue’s compounds –Hydration process - Types of
cement –Aggregates-Gradation curves-Combined aggregates-Alkali silica reaction–Admixtures-
mineral and chemical admixtures.
UNIT II:
Fresh and Hardened Concrete: Fresh concrete-workability tests on concrete–setting times of
fresh concrete- segregation and bleeding.
Hardened Concrete: Abram's law – Gel- space ratio - maturity concept –stress strain behavior-
creep and shrinkage-durability of concrete-Non-destructive testing of concrete. Introduction to
XRD & SEM Analysis.
28
UNIT III:
High Strength Concrete: Microstructure-manufacturing and properties--ultra high strength
concrete. High performance concrete- Requirements and properties of high performance
concrete-design considerations.
UNIT IV:
Special Concretes: Light weight concrete-Self Compacting concrete-Polymer concrete -Fiber
reinforced concrete –Reactive powder concrete-Bacterial concrete-Geo-polymer concrete –
Requirements and guidelines- Advantages and Applications – Porous pavement – White Topping
– Roller compacted concrete.
UNIT V:
Concrete Mix Design: Quality control –Quality assurance-Quality audit-Mix design by various
methods-BIS method-DOE method-ACI method - Erntroy& Shacklock’s method.
Text Books:
1. Concrete Technology by M.L. Gambhir, McGraw Hill Education (India) Pvt. Ltd,5th edition
2. Concrete Technology by M.S. Shetty,S. Chand& Co.
References:
1. Concrete technology by A.M. Neville& J J Brooks, Low price edition 2004, Pearson
Education.
2. Concrete –Microstructure, properties and materials by P. Kumar Mehta & Paulo J.M.
Monteiro- 3rd edition published by Tata Mc Graw Hill Education Pvt. Ltd.
3. Properties of concrete by A.M. Neville, Pearson publishers,
4. Design of Concrete Mixes by N. Krishna Raju, CBS Publications.
29
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M. Tech. (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(STR16) PRINCIPLES OF BRIDGE ENGINEERING
(Elective – I / Elective -II)
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Develop site selection and design concepts for bridge
• Build up a clear understanding of conceptual design.
• Understand the load flow mechanism and identify loads on bridges
• Carry out conceptual design, selecting suitable geometry and also understand
maintenance aspects of a bridge
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Apply knowledge of mathematics, science and engineering to meet desired needs such as
economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety, manufacturability,
and sustainability
• Compile and function with multidisciplinary teams
• Identify, formulate and solve engineering problems
• Use the techniques, skills and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering
practice
UNIT I:
Investigations and Planning: Investigations for culverts and minor bridges, Investigations for
major bridges - topography, catchment, hydrology, geotechnical aspects, construction resources -
design flood discharge - methods, linear waterway. choice of foundation for piers and abutments
- types - cost ratio - clearance - choice of foundation - open, pile, well, block foundations -
relative suitability. Setting out for piers and abutments for minor and major bridges.
classification of culverts and bridges - components of bridge structures - loading standards -
railway and road loading standards.
UNIT II:
Foundations: Open foundations - excavation under G W T., baling out, cofferdams - floating
caisson process - individual footings - raft footings - design considerations. pile foundations -
types - load tests - strength - lateral resistance - construction of driven and cast-in-site piles -
design considerations. Foundations II: Well foundation - types - caissons - design of wells - well
sinking - open sinking and pneumatic sinking - materials for staining - concrete in staining -
bottom plug, sand filling and well cap
30
UNIT III:
Piers, Abutments, Superstructure: Piers and abutments - function, aesthetics, materials; wing
walls - construction aspects. Superstructure - types - choice of materials - design principles,
considerations and criteria of pipe culverts, slab culvert, box culvert, causeways. RC Bridges -
Design Principles: Design of T beam and slab bridge - design principles of RC balanced
cantilever bridge and articulation. Design concepts of rigid frame bridges - thumb rule design of
masonry arch bridges - design of bowstring girder bridge and components.
UNIT IV:
Elements of Pre-stressed (Post Tensioned and Pre-tensioned) Concrete Bridge Design:
Size, pre-stress force, eccentricity, design of cables, end blocks.
Features and Design Consideration Of Bridges: Suspension bridges, cable stayed bridges and
their components; bearings - types - design of rocker and roller bearings.
UNIT V:
Construction And Maintenance: Bridge superstructure construction - supports and centering
for RC bridges - erection of precast RC girders and steel girder bridges - maintenance of bridges,
strengthening of masonry arch bridges.
Text Books:
1. Essentials of Bridge Engineering by Victor J. Oxford and IBH Publishing Co., New Delhi,
1999.
2. Design of Bridges by Krishna Raju N, Oxford and IBH Publishing Co., New Delhi, 1998.
References:
1. Design of bridge structures by T.R. Jagadeesh, PHI learning pvt. Ltd.2009.
2. Bridge Deck analysis simplified by Bakht B and Jaeger L G, McGraw Hill book company,
Singapore, 1987
3. Bridge Engineering by Ponnuswamy S, Tata McGraw Hill Publishing Co., New Delhi, 1986.
4. Design of concrete Bridges by M.G.Aswani, V.N.Vazirani and M.M.Ratwani McGraw Hill
Publishing, 2000.
31
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M. Tech. (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(MTH31) COMPUTER BASED NUMERICAL METHODS
(Open Elective - I)
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Apply the basic knowledge of mathematics in engineering.
• Provide a formidable base for analysis and programming using computer applications.
• Develop the ability in programming and solutions based on the various analysis tools.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Apply it to basic (linear) ordinary and partial differential equations.
• Identify mathematical model for solution of common engineering problems.
• Formulate simple problems into programming models.
UNIT I:
Solution of Algebraic and Transcendental Equations: Introduction, errors and
approximations, binary and decimal systems, computing roots using direct methods (bisection,
regulafalsi) and Iterative Methods (fixed point iterative and Newton-Raphson Methods) and
applications
Lab: Implementation of algorithms on computers using any computer language and comparison
(Bisection and N-R Method)
UNIT II:
Solution of Simultaneous Linear Equations: Introduction, Methods of solution direct (Matrix
inversion and Gauss elimination methods) and iterative methods (Gauss Jacobi and Gauss seidel
methods) disadvantages of ill-conditioned systems and pivoting, Eigen value, computing largest
Eigen value by power method and applications
Lab: Implementation of algorithms on computers and comparison
UNIT III:
Interpolation, Numerical Differentiation and Integration: Introduction, Interpolation for
equally spaced data and unequally spaced data by Newton’s methods, Lagrange’s method and
cubic splices. Numerical differentiation formulae using finite differences and interpolation.
Newton-Cotes integration formulae (Trapezoidal and Simpsons rules) and Gauss quadrature
formulae and applications.
Lab: Implementation of algorithms on computer (Newton’s formula, Trapezoidal and Simpsons
rule)
32
UNIT IV:
Numerical Solutions of Differential Equations (ODE & PDE): Introduction, solution of ODE
of IVP type by Euler’s methods, Runge - Kutta methods (single step) and multistep methods.
Numerical solution of PDE using finite difference schemes approach, (Parabolic, Elliptic type)
and applications
Lab: Implementation of R-K method (for ODE) Bender Schmidt and Crank- Nicolson methods
(for PDE)
UNIT V:
Linear Programming Problems (LPP): Introduction, formation of LPP, methods of solution.
Graphical method, simplex methods, dual simplex method, artificial variables, Big-on method,
Transportation problems (by VAM) and applications.
Lab: Implementation of Simplex algorithm
Text Books:
1. Numerical Methods by Dr.B.S.Grewal
2. Numerical Analysis by R.L.Burden&J.D.Faires
References:
1. Numerical Methods for Engineers by Chopras S.C and Canale R.P
2. Numerical Methods for scientists and Engineers by Iyenger& Jai
33
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M. Tech. (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
( ENG32) PROFESSIONAL AND TECHNICAL COMMUNICATION
(Open Elective - I)
Introduction:
This course aims to offer students a practical approach to professional and technical
communication; and to focus specifically on verbal and written communication. Additionally,
the course is designed to build confidence and; group communication and public speaking
competence. Each unit in the syllabus is devised so as to include a writing component as well as
an oral component.
Course Objectives:
• To enable the students to write without errors in spelling, mechanics, grammar and
punctuation; resume, business letters, proposals and reports to accomplish academic as
well as professional goals.
• To train students to write clearly, cohesively, emphatically and concisely.
• To groom students to speak accurately and fluently and prepare them for real world
activities
• To train students in soft skills through group discussion to improve their EQ.
Course Outcomes:
Students will be able to:
• analyze communication situations and audiences to make choices about the most
effective and efficient way to communicate and deliver messages
• write resume, business letters, project proposals and reports
• speak fluently and address a large group of audience and participate in discussions.
• navigate through complex environments through interpersonal and collaborative skills.
UNIT I:
• Oral Communication :Self-introduction
• Applications and Covering letters
• Resume Writing
• Job Interviews
UNIT II:
• Oral Communication: Impromptu Speech
• Reading Business and Technical Texts
• Writing E-mails
• Writing Business Letters and Business Memos
34
UNIT III:
• Oral Communication: Group Discussions
• Summarizing and Synthesising
• Writing Abstracts
UNIT IV:
• Oral Communication : Debate
• Writing Business Proposals
• Writing Technical Proposals
UNIT V:
• Oral Communication: Making Presentations
• Interpreting Graphic Information
• Writing Business Reports
• Writing Technical Reports
Text Book and Materials:
1. Ashraf Rizvi, M (2005). Effective Technical Communication, Tata Mc Graw Hill Publishing
Company Limited, New Delhi.
2. M. Raman and S. Sharma, Technical Communication: Principles and Practices, OUP, 2004.
(Indian Edition)
References:
1. William S. Pfeiffer, (2012) Technical Communication: A Practical Approach (7th ed.)
Longman
2. Burnett, Rebecca. Technical Communication. 5th Ed., Heinle, 2001.
3. Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson : Technical Writing Process and Product. 3rd edition,
New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
4. Markel, Mike. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies (8th EDITION (2006-
2007)
5. R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan, Business Correspondence and Report Writing, Third Edition,
TMH, 2002. (Indian Edition)
6. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical Communication: A
Reader-Centered Approach ( 5th ed..) (pp. 457-473). Boston: Heinle.
35
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M. Tech. (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(STR31) ENERGY EFFICIENT BUILDINGS
(Open Elective - I)
Course Objectives:
Student shall be enabled to
• Study the design of energy efficient buildings which balances all aspects of energy,
lighting, space conditioning and ventilation.
• Learn passive solar design strategies.
• Understand the use of materials with low embodied energy.
• Design the standards for ventilation and different climatic zones
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Design energy efficient buildings which balance all aspects of energy, lighting, space
conditioning and ventilation.
• Design energy efficient buildings with passive solar design strategies.
• Use materials with low embodied energy.
• Apply concepts in Energy auditing
UNIT I:
Introduction: Energy required for building construction - Heat Transfer – Measuring
Conduction –Thermal Storage – Measurement of Radiation – The Green house Effect –
Psychrometry Chart – Measuring latent and sensible heat. Thermal Comfort – Site Planning and
Development – Temperature – Humidity – Wind – Optimum Site Locations – Sun Protection –
Types of Shading Devices – Conservation – Heating and Cooling loads.
UNIT II:
Passive Solar Heating and Cooling: General Principles of passive Solar Heating – Key Design
Elements - Direct gain Trombe Walls, Water Walls, Convective Air loops – Concepts – Case
Studies – General Principles of Passive Cooling – Ventilation – Predicting ventilation in
buildings – window ventilation calculations - Radiation – Evaporation and dehumidification –
Mass Effect – Load Control – Air Filtration and odor removal – Heat Recovery in large buildings
UNIT III:
Day Lighting and Electrical Lighting: Materials, components and details - Insulation – Optical
materials – Radiant Barriers Glazing materials - Day lighting – Sources and concepts – Building
Design Strategies –Case Studies – Electric Lighting –Light Distribution – Electric Lighting
control for day lighted buildings – Illumination requirement – Components of Daylight factor –
Recommended Daylight factors – Day lighting analysis – Supplementary Artificial Lighting
Design
36
UNIT IV:
Heat Control and Ventilation: Requirements – Heat transmission through building sections –
Thermal performance of Building sections – Orientation of buildings – Building characteristics
for various climates – Thermal Design of buildings Influence of Design Parameters –
Mechanical controls –Examples. Ventilation – Requirements – Minimum standards for
ventilation – Ventilation Design – Energy Conservation in Ventilating systems – Design for
Natural Ventilation.
UNIT V:
Design for Climatic Zones: Energy efficiency – an overview of design concepts and
architectural interventions –Energy efficient buildings for various zones – cold and cloudy – cold
and sunny –composite – hot and dry – moderate – warm and humid – case studies of residences,
office buildings and other buildings in each zones – Energy Audit – Certification
Text Books:
1. Energy – efficient Buildings in India by Majumdar, M. (Ed), Tata Energy Research Institute,
Ministry of Non Conventional Energy Sources, 2002.
2. Handbook on energy audits and management Tata Energy Research by Tyagi, A. K.(Ed),
References:
1. Environmental Control System by Moore, F., McGraw Hill Inc., 2002
2. Sun, Wind and Light – Architectural Design Strategies by Brown, G.Z. and DeKay, M.,
John Wiley and Sons Inc, 2001
3. Energy Conservation in Commercial and Residential Buildings by Chilogioji, M.H., and
Oura, E.N., Marcel Dekker Inc., New York and Basel, 1995.
4. Energy Conservation Standards – For Building Design, Construction and Operation by
Dubin, F.S. and Long, C.G., McGraw Hill Book Company ,1990.
37
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(HIG51) PAVEMENT ENGINEERING LAB
CYCLE I:
Tests on Aggregates: Aggregates Sampling, Gradation- Shape tests- Elastic recovery -
Aggregate Impact Test- Los Angeles Abrasion Test – Crushing strength of Aggregates- Specific
Gravity Test and Water Absorption Test - bulking of sand.
CYCLE II:
Bitumen & Bituminous Mixes: Penetration Test -Ductility Test- Elastic recovery Softening
point test - Viscosity test- Kinematic Viscosity and Absolute Viscosity Tests - Marshall Stability
Mix Design-Analysis, Binder content determination.
CYCLE III:
Soil: Basic Tests-Gradation-dry and wet-Hydrometer Analysis- CBR Test, Soil stabilization.
CYCLE IV:
Mix Design: Wet Mix Macadam – CBR method.
Text Books:
1. Highway materials and pavement testing by Khanna, S.K., Justo, C.E.G., and A.
Veeraragavan, 5th edition, Nem chand and brothers, Roorkee, India, 2009.
References:
1. Huang, Y.H. Pavement Analysis and Design, Pearson Prentice Hall, New Jersey, USA, 2004.
2. Relevant IS, IRC, ASTM Codes.
Note: All tests are performed as per IS, ASTM, AASHTO, TRL, IRC, BS procedures /
specifications and guidelines
38
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
L T/P/D C
I Year- I Sem. M.Tech. (Highway Engineering)
0 0 4
(HIG61) MINI PROJECT – I
A mini project work shall be carried out on any topic in Highway engineering and a
seminar should be given on the same along with a brief report.
39
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(HIG04) PAVEMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Understand Network level and project level PMS.
• Evaluate Pavements on Functional and Structural basis.
• Learn Alternative design strategies of pavements and Economic evaluation.
• Appreciate the role of Expert System in PMS.
Course Outcomes:
At the end of the course students will be able to
• Identify and select the various Design strategies of pavement using PMS Concept.
• Evaluate the pavement condition using Functional and Structural Evaluation techniques.
• Appraise and Estimate the life cycle cost of Pavement.
• Relate ANN and Fuzzy concepts for PMS.
UNIT I:
Introduction: Definition -Components of Pavement Management Systems, Essential features
Pavement Management Levels and functions: Ideal PMS- Network and Project levels of PMS-
Influence Levels- PMS Functions- Function of Pavement evaluation
UNIT II:
Pavement Performance: Serviceability Concepts- roughness- Roughness Components-
Equipment-IRI -modeling techniques, structural condition deterioration models, mechanistic and
empirical models, HDM and other models, comparison of different deterioration models.
Functional Evaluation: Functional and Structural deterioration models, unevenness prediction
models and other models, comparison. Case studies. Equipments
UNIT III:
Evaluation of Pavement Structural Capacity: Basics- NDT and Analysis—Condition
Surveys- Distress-Destructive Structural Analysis- Application in Network and Project Levels
UNIT IV:
Design Alternatives and Selection: design objectives and constraints, basic structural response
models, physical design inputs, alternate pavement design strategies and economic evaluation,
life cycle costing, analysis of alternate pavement strategies based on distress and performance,
case studies. Equipments
40
UNIT V:
Expert Systems and Pavement Management: Role of computers in pavement management,
applications of expert systems for managing pavements, expert system for pavement evaluation
and rehabilitation, knowledge-based expert systems.
Text Books:
1. 'Pavement Management System' by Ralph Haas and Ronald W. Hudson, McGraw Hill Book
Co. 1978
2. Modern Pavement Management by Haas, R.W.R.Hidson and J.P.Zaniewski. Krieger
Publishing Company. Malabar, Florida, 1994.
References:
1. Infrastructure Management: Integrating Design, Construction, Maintenance, Rehabilitation,
and Renovation by Hudson, W. R., R. Haas and W. Uddin Mc Graw Hill, Newyork, 1997.
2. Proceedings of North American Conference on Managing Pavement
3. Proceedings of International Conference on Structural Design of Asphalt Pavements
NCHRP, TRR and TRB Special Reports.
4. Pavement Analysis and Design by Huang, Yang H. Prentice-Hall, Inc Englewood Cliffs,
New Jersey 1993
41
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(HIG05) TRAFFIC ENGINEERING
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Introduce students on the basic concepts of traffic engineering.
• Analyze capacity and level of service of highways.
• Identify the importance and types of parking and traffic safety in day-to-day life.
• Design signals at the intersection.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Explain basic characteristics of traffic engineering like speed, flow and density.
• Analyze and calculate the capacity and level of service of any given highway.
• Formulate the parking demand and design a parking facility.
• Design the signals at the intersection.
UNIT I:
Basic Traffic Characteristics: Speed, volume and concentration. Relationship between Flow,
Speed and Concentration Volume Studies - Objectives, Methods; Speed studies - Objectives:
Definition of Spot Speed, time mean speed and space mean speed; Methods of conducting speed
studies.
UNIT II:
Speed Studies: Methods of conducting speed studies; Presentation of speed study data; Head
ways and Gaps; Critical Gap; Gap acceptance studies. Highway Capacity and Level of Service:
Basic definitions related to capacity; Level of service concept; Factors affecting capacity and
level of service; Computation of capacity and level of service for two lane highways Multilane
highways and freeways.
UNIT III:
Parking Studies and Analysis: Types of parking facilities - on street parking and off street
Parking facilities; Parking studies and analysis. Traffic Safety: Accident studies and analysis;
Causes of accidents - The Road, The vehicle, The road user and the Environment; Engineering,
Enforcement and Education measures for the prevention of accidents, Road safety audit.
UNIT IV:
Traffic Control and Regulation: Traffic Signals - Design of Isolated Traffic Signal by Webster
method, Warrants for signalization, Signal Co-ordination methods, Simultaneous, Alternate,
Simple progression and Flexible progression Systems.
.
42
UNIT V:
Traffic and Environment: Detrimental effects of Traffic on Environment; Air pollution; Noise
Pollution; Measures to curtail environmental degradation due to traffic.
Text Books:
1. Traffic Engineering and Transportation Planning by L.R. Kadiyali, Khanna Publishers, 2011.
2. Traffic Engineering by Roger P. Roess, Elena S. Prassas and William R. McShane, Prentice
Hall, 4th edition, 2010.
References:
1. Traffic & Highway Engineering by Nicholas J Garber, Lester A Hoel, Third edition, Bill,
2011
2. Design codes IRC: SP: 41-1994, IRC SP: 31-1992, IRC 43-1994, Indian Roads Congress,
New Delhi.
3. Highway Capacity Manual 2010, Transportation Research Board
4. Coleman A. O 'flaherty, Transport Planning and Traffic Engineering, Butterworth
Heinemann, 2009.
43
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(HIG06) URBAN TRANSPORTATION PLANNING
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Introduce students on basic concepts and methods of urban transportation planning in
the India.
• Design, conduct and administer surveys to provide the data required for transportation
planning.
• Understand and apply travel demand modeling, mode choice modeling and traffic
Assignment Modeling
• Identify importance of transportation planning in cities.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Plan and conduct surveys to provide the data required for transportation planning.
• Recognize zonal demand generation and attraction regression models.
• Develop and calibrate trip generation rates for specific types of land use developments.
• Predict the final decisions among planning alternatives that best integrate multiple
objectives such as technical feasibility and cost minimization.
UNIT I:
Urban Transportation Planning: Goals and objectives - Hierarchical levels of Transportation
planning - Forecast - Implementation - Constraints.UTP survey – Inventory of land use-
Introduction of classical four stage modeling. Zonal Classifications.
UNIT II:
Trip Generation and Trip Distribution Trip classification - productions and attractions -
Multiple regression models - Category analysis - Trip production models - Trip distribution
models – Linear programming approach.
UNIT III:
Mode Split and Traffic Assignments: Behavioral models - Probabilistic models - Utility
functions – logit models - Two stage model. Traffic assignment - Assignment methods - Route-
choice behaviour - Network analysis.
UNIT IV:
Land-Use and its Interaction: Lowry derivative models - Quick response techniques - Non-
Transport solutions for transport problems. Characteristics of urban structure. Town planning
concepts.
44
UNIT V:
Applications of UTP: Preparation of alternative plans - Evaluation techniques - Plan
implementation – Monitoring - Case studies.
Text Books:
1. Principles of Urban Transportation System Planning by Hutchinson, B.G., McGraw Hill,
1974.
2. An Introduction to Transportation Planning (The Living Environment) by Bruton, M. J.,
UCL Press, London, UK, 2000
References:
1. Transportation Engineering by C.J. Khisty and B. Kent Lall, Prentice Hall of India Pvt. Ltd.,
2002.
2. Transportation Engineering and Planning by C.S. Papacostas and P.D. Prevedouros, Prentice
Hall of India Pvt. Ltd., 2001.
3. UTP Lecture Notes by by Chari, S.R. Regional Engg. College, Warangal 1978.
4. Metropolitan Transportation Planning by Dicky J.W.,Script Book Co., Washington, D.C.,
1975.
45
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(HIG21) REMOTE SENSING & GIS
(Elective – III / Elective - IV)
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Describe and define various concepts of Remote Sensing and GIS.
• Enable them to analyze remote sensing and GIS data.
• Appraise the importance accuracy of remote sensing and GIS data
• Apply Remote Sensing and GIS knowledge in solving various highway engineering
related problems.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Describe different concepts and terms used in Remote Sensing and GIS
• Compare and process different data sets
• Evaluate the accuracy and decide whether a data set can be used or not.
• Demonstrate various applications in RS and GIS.
UNIT I:
Remote Sensing: Introduction- Principle of remote sensing, components of remote sensing,
Remote sensing platforms, Radiometric quantities, Electromagnetic radiation and its properties,
Electromagnetic energy laws, Interaction of EMR with earth features, Interaction of EMR with
atmospheric features, atmospheric effects on remote sensing data, spectral reflectance curves,
Spectral properties of soil, water, vegetation. Advantages and Disadvantages of Remote Sensing
Data
UNIT II:
Satellites and Sensors: Sensors - Remote sensing sensors types, along track scanners, across
track scanners. Sensor Characteristics – Swath, IFOV, Nadir view, Spatial Resolution, Spectral
Resolution, Temporal, Resolution, Radiometric resolution, Atmospheric ,Radiometric,
Geometric corrections Satellites – Satellite orbits, Geostationary and polar satellites, various
satellites and their main applications, IRS satellites.
UNIT III:
Remote Sensing Data Interpretation, Processing and Enhancement: Elements of visual
interpretation, Image enhancement techniques - necessity and importance, contrast enhancement
techniques, low pass (smoothing) filters and high pass (sharpening) filters, linear and non-linear
filtering techniques, edge detection, supervised classification, unsupervised classification, and
Classification accuracy. Introduction to GPS and DGPS.
46
UNIT IV:
Geographical Information System: Introduction, Definition and Terminology, Components of
GIS, GIS Data Input - Keyboard entry, Manual digitizing, Scanning methods, Errors in
digitizing, Data output formatting and output devices, GIS Data Models – Raster, Vector, TIN,
Spatial Data Analysis – Interpolation, Buffering techniques, Overlay operations
UNIT V:
Applications of GIS in Transportation Engineering: Applications of GIS in transportation
engineering, GIS based road network planning, Shortest path detection using GIS, Automatic
Navigation system using GPS and GIS , Identification of accident hot spots using GIS, GIS
based traffic congestion analysis, Network analysis using GIS.
Text Books:
1. Remote Sensing and Image Interpretation by Thomas M. Lillesand and Ralph W.Kiefer,
Wiley Publishers, 2006.
2. Introduction to Geographic Information systems by Kang-tsung Chang, McGrawHill
Education (Indian Edition), 2008.
References:
1. Remote Sensing and GIS by Basudeb Bhatta , Oxford University Press, 2003.
2. Basics of Remote sensing and GIS by Dr. S. Kumar, Laxmi Publications, 2002
3. Remote Sensing and Geographical Information systems by M.Anji Reddy, B.S.Publications,
2004.
4. Remote Sensing and Geographical Information systems by Kali Charan Sahu, Atlantic
Publishers and Distributors, 2009.
47
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(HIG22) RURAL ROAD TECHNOLOGY
(Elective – III / Elective - IV)
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Must have the knowledge about various design factors considered for rural road.
• Familiar with the rural road design and construction aspects.
• To know the importance /role of rural roads as poverty reducer and infrastructure
multiplier and how the rural roads act as a facilitators to promote agricultural growth,
improve basic health provide economic access to economic opportunities and
employment opportunities.
• Important concepts like classification, socio-economic impact, planning, design,
construction and maintenance of the rural roads.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Obtain a basic Knowledge to describe the need and importance of rural road network and
how it influences the current growth of infrastructure in India.
• Learn route selection and surveys for road location, planning and alignment, type of
material used in pavement construction for rural roads.
• Learn basic principles of geometric design which is useful to rural roads pavement
design and complete procedure for pavement construction.
• Learn during the construction of a rural road what kind of quality control test shall be
taken up and after construction what measures shall be taken for maintenance.
UNIT I:
Introduction: Importance of Rural roads, Classification of rural roads, Terrain classification,
Socio-economic impact of rural roads. Planning and Alignment: Data base for master plan,
Concept of network planning, Rural Roads plan, Road alignment, Governing factors for route
selection, Factors controlling alignment, Special considerations while aligning hill roads,
Surveys, Detailed project report, Environmental issues
UNIT II:
Geometric Design: Introduction, Design speed, Basic principles of geometric design, Elements,
Horizontal and vertical alignment, Alignment compatibility, Lateral and vertical clearances.
Road Materials: General, Soil and material surveys, Soil as road construction material, Stabilized
soils, Aggregates for pavement courses, New materials and stabilizers, Materials for bituminous
construction, Materials for semi-rigid and rigid pavement, Materials for special pavements
Climatic suitability of concrete materials
48
UNIT III:
Pavement Design: Introduction, Design parameters, Pavement components, Design of flexible
pavement, Design of semi-rigid pavement, Design of rigid pavement, Design of special
pavements, Drainage and Shoulders Specifications and Construction: General, Selection of
construction materials and methodology, Earthwork, Sub-base, Base course, Bituminous
constructions, Semi-rigid pavement construction, Concrete pavements, Construction of special
pavements, Equipment required for different operations.
UNIT IV:
Green Road Concept and Use of Waste Materials: Introduction, Significance of green roads,
Fly ash for road construction, Iron & steel and copper slags, Lime-rice husk ash concrete,
Recycled concrete aggregate, Other waste materials. Quality Control in Construction: General,
Pre-requisite, Specifications and codes of practice, Quality control tests during construction.
UNIT V:
Maintenance: General, Distresses/defects in pavements, Definitions of maintenance activities,
Inventory of road and inspection, Types of maintenance, Classification of maintenance activities,
Maintenance norms of maintenance cost.
Text Books:
1. IRC: SP 20-2002 ‘’Rural Roads Manual’ Indian road congress, New Delhi, 2002
2. IRC: SP 72-2007 ‘Guidelines for the Design of Flexible Pavements for Low Volume Rural
Roads’
References:
1. IRC: SP 62-2004 ‘Guidelines for the Design and Construction of Cement Concrete
Pavements for Rural Roads’
2. IRC ‘Specifications for Rural Roads’, MoRD, 2004
3. CRRI ‘Various Reports on Use of Waste Materials’ 2006.
4. Handbook of Transportation Engineering by Myer Kutz, Editor, McGraw-Hill Publishers,
2004
49
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(HIG23) INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS
(Elective – III / Elective - IV)
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• To understand ITS architecture and standards.
• To apply appropriate ITS technology depending upon site specific conditions.
• Design and implement ITS components.
• To understand concept and application of Automated Highway Systems
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Differentiate different ITS user Services.
• Apply ITS fir road user safety.
• Interpret importance of AHS in ITS.
• Extend future research and special project.
UNIT I:
Introduction and ITS Travel Management: System Architecture, Standards, Database –
Tracking Database – Commercial Vehicle Operations – Intelligent Vehicle Initiative -
Metropolitan ITS – Rural ITS – ITS for Rail network.
UNIT II:
ITS Travel Management: Autonomous Route Guidance System – Infrastructure based systems
– Telecommunications – Vehicle – Road side communication – Vehicle Positioning System –
Electronic Toll Collection – Electronic Car Parking
UNIT III:
ITS Designs: Modeling and Simulation Techniques - Peer – to – Peer Program – ITS for Road
Network – System Design – Mobile Navigation Assistant – Traffic Information Center – Public
Safety Program.
UNIT IV:
Automated Highway Systems: Evolution of AHS and Current Vehicle Trends - Vehicles in
Platoons – Aerodynamic Benefits - Integration of Automated Highway Systems – System
Configurations - Step by Step to an Automated Highway System.
UNIT V:
Spacing and Capacity for Different AHS Concepts – Communication Technologies for AHS -
The Effects of AHS on the Environment – Regional Mobility - Impact Assessment of Highway
Automation.
50
Text Books:
1. ITS Hand Book 2000: Recommendations for World Road Association (PIARC) by Kan Paul
Chen, John Miles.
2. “Intelligent Transport Systems – Cases and Policies” by Roger R. Stough, Publisher: Edward
Elgar, 2001.
References:
1. Intermodal Freight Transport by David Lowe, Elsevier Butterworth-Heinemann Publishers,
2005
2. “Positioning Systems in Intelligent Transportation Systems” by Chris Drane and Chris Rizos,
Artech House Publishers, London, 2000
3. “Perspectives on Intelligent Transport Systems” by Joseph M. Sussman, Springer Publishers,
2000
4. Intelligent transport System, Intelligent Transportation primer, Washington, US, 2001.
51
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(HIG24) HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION AND QUALITY CONTROL
(Elective – III / Elective - IV)
Course Objectives:
Student will able to
• Learn and define the various component of pavement structure.
• Understand, Design and construct various drainage systems.
• Gain knowledge on various equipments used for construction of road.
• Differentiate about various construction of base course such as WMM, WBM Etc.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of this course student will able to
• Recognize and select the Equipments for the construction of Road.
• Design and economize the various constructions of different layers. Such as Base and
Sub base course.
• Identify and select the maintenance works of various components of road works.
• Principle of construction planning and importance of CPM PERT
UNIT I:
Components of road and pavement structure including sub-grade, drainage system, functions,
requirements and sequence of construction operations Plants and equipment for production of
materials - crushers, mixers, bituminous mixing plants, cement concrete mixers – various types,
advantages and choice.
UNIT II:
Drainage – Assessment of drainage requirements for the road and design of various components,
drainage materials, Construction of surface and subsurface drainage system and design of filter
materials for roads. Drainage for urban roads.
UNIT III
Road construction equipment – different types of excavators, graders, soil compactors / rollers,
pavers and other equipment for construction of different pavement layers – their uses and choice
Problem on equipment usage charges; Pre-construction surveys and marking on ground -
Specifications and steps for the construction of road formation in embankment and cut,
construction steps for granular sub-base, quality control tests.
UNIT IV:
Different types of granular base course – WMM, CRM, WBM; specifications, construction
method and quality control tests. Different types of bituminous layers for binder and surface
courses; their specifications (as per IRC and MORTH); construction method and quality control
tests. Different types of sub-base and base course for cement concrete (CC) pavement and
52
construction method. Construction of cement concrete (PQC) pavements joints quality control
during construction. Construction details of interlocking concrete block pavements
UNIT V:
Principle of construction planning, application of CPM and PERT(Problems not included) Road
maintenance works – day to day and periodic maintenance works of various components of road
works and road furniture. Preparation of existing pavement – patching, profile correction,
Special measures to deal with reflection cracks in pavement layers, slipperiness of surface, etc.
Special problems in construction & maintenance of hill roads, land slide, causes, investigation,
and preventive and remedial measures, protection of embankment and cut slopes.
Text Books:
1. Construction Planning Equipment and Method by Peurifoy, R.L., and Clifford,JS McGraw
Hill Book Co.
2. Inc. Hot Mix Asphalt Materials, mixture design and construction by Freddy L Roberts,
Prithvi S Kandhal et al, (2nd Edition), National Asphalt Pavement Association Research and
Education Foundation, Maryland, USA.
References:
1. Construction Equipment and its Management by Sharma S.C., Khanna Publishers
2. Hot Mix Asphalt Paving Hand book by National Asphalt Pavement Association 5100 Forbes
Boulevard, Lanhm, Mary Land, USA
3. MoRTH Manual for Construction and Supervision of Bituminous Works- 2013, Indian
Roads Congress
4. MoRTH Manual for Maintenance of Roads- 1989, Indian Roads Congress
5. IRC: 42-1994, IRC:15-2002, IRC SP :11-1988, , 55-2001, 57-2001,58-2001, IRC 19-1977,
27-1967, 29-1988, 34-1970, 36-1970,48-1972,61-1976, 63-1976, 68-1976, 81-1997,82-1982,
84-1983,93-1985, 94-1986, 95-1987, 98-1997, 105-1988.
53
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(HIG25) AIRPORT PLANNING & DESIGN
(Elective – III / Elective - IV)
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Understand the effect of atmospheric variables on aircraft performance
• Design Airport airfield components
• Plan and design capacity of airport Terminals based on Land Traffic
• Understand about the aircraft traffic control aids
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Explains direction of runways and its orientation
• Designs geometry of Airport Infrastructure
• Prepare Structural design of Runways, Taxiways and Apron-gate area
• Arrange Master plan for Airport and Terminal area locations.
UNIT I:
Introduction: Growth of air transport, airport organization and associations, Classifications of
airports airfield components, airport traffic zones and approach areas. Aircraft Characteristics
Related to Airport Design: Components, size turning radius, speed, airport characteristics
UNIT II:
Capacity and Delay: Factors affecting capacity, Determination of runway capacity related to
delay, gate capacity, Taxiway capacity. Airport planning, surveys and Design: Airport Site
Selection, Runway length and width, sight distances, longitudinal and transverse grades, runway
intersections, taxiways, clearances, aprons, numbering, holding apron, noise control, Problems.
UNIT III:
Planning and Design of the Terminal Area: Operational concepts, space relationships and area
requirements, vehicular traffic and parking at airports.
UNIT IV:
Airport Grading and Drainage: Grading of airport area, hydrology, design of drainage
systems, construction methods, layout of surface drainage and subsurface drainage system,
Problems.
UNIT V:
Air Traffic Control and Aids: Runways and taxiways markings, day and night landing aids,
airport lighting, ILS and other associated aids.
54
Text Books:
1. Airport Engineering: Planning, Design and Development of 21st Century Airports by
Ashford, N. J., Mumayiz, S. A., and Wright, P. H. , Fourth Edition, John Wiley & Sons, New
Jersey, USA, 2011.
2. Planning and Design of Airports by Horonjeff, R., McKelvey, F. X., Sproule, W. J., and
Young, S. B., Fifth Edition, McGraw-Hill, New York, USA, 2010.
References:
1. Airport Design and Operation by Kazda, A., and Caves, R. E., Second Edition, Elsevier,
Oxford, U.K., 2007.
2. Airport planning and Design by Khanna, S. K., Arora, M. G., and Jain, S. S. Sixth Edition,
Nem Chand and Bros, Roorkee, India, 2012.
3. Air Transportation Planning and Design by Kumar, V., and Chandra, S. Galgotia
Publications Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi, India, 1999.
4. Airport Systems: Planning, Design, and Management by Neufville, R. D., and Odoni, A.
McGraw-Hill, New York, USA, 2003.
55
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(GTE06) ENGINEERING OF GROUND
(Elective – III / Elective - IV)
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Know the need and objectives of ground improvement techniques.
• Comprehend the principles of various ground improvement methods
• Compare different methods of ground improvement and understand their suitability.
• Apply the relevant method to remedy a difficult soil condition.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Apply the principles of ground improvement to a given site condition
• Work out the choice of right technique to improve different difficult grounds
• Ensure safe, stable and economical construction for any structure.
• Learn the issues affecting design and construction of various methods for soil
improvement
UNIT I:
Introduction to Ground Modification: Need and objectives of Ground Improvement,
Classification of Ground Modification Techniques – suitability and feasibility, Emerging
Trends in ground improvement.
UNIT II:
Mechanical and Hydraulic Modification: Methods of compaction, Shallow compaction,
Deep compaction techniques - Vibro-floatation, Blasting, Dynamic consolidation, pre-
compression and compaction piles, Field compaction control.; Hydraulic Modification:
Methods of dewatering – open sumps and ditches, Well-point system, Electro-osmosis,
Vacuum dewatering wells; pre-loading without and with sand drains, strip drains and rope
drains.
UNIT III:
Physical and Chemical Modification: Stabilization with admixtures like cement, lime,
calcium chloride, fly ash and bitumen. Grouting: Categories of grouting, Art of grouting,
Grout materials, Grouting techniques and control.
UNIT IV:
Soil Confinement Systems: Concept of confinement, Gabion walls, Crib walls, Sand bags,
Evergreen systems and fabric Formwork. Miscellaneous Techniques: Design, Construction
and applications of stone columns, lime columns.
56
UNIT V:
Modification by Inclusions and Confinement : In-Situ ground reinforcement, ground anchors,
rock bolting and soil nailing. Thermal modification, Ground freezing. Filtration, Drainage and
seepage control with Geo-synthetics.
Text Books:
1. Engineering principles of ground modification by Manfred R. Hanusmann, McGraw-Hill
pub. Co., New York, 2000.
2. Construction and Geotechnical methods in Foundation Engineering by Robert M. Koerner,
McGraw-Hill Pub. Co., New York, 2002.
References:
1. Engineering with Geosynthetics by C.V.J. Varma, A.R.G. Rao, G.V. Rao. Divan Enterprises,
New Delhi, 1995.
2. Foundation Engineering Hand Book by Winterkorn and Fang, Van Nostrand Reinhold Co.,
New York, 2006.
3. Soil Improvement by Preloading by Aris C. Stamatopoulos & Panaghiotis C. Kotzios – John
Wiley & Sons Inc. Canada, 2003.
4. Ground Improvement Techniques by P. Purushothama Rao Laxmi Publications (P) Limited,
2010.
57
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(STR41) OPTIMIZATION TECHNIQUES IN ENGINEERING
(Open Elective - II)
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Define statement of optimization problem
• Solve optimization problems using linear programming
• Solve optimization problems using Dynamic programming
• Optimize structural elements like beams, trusses and frames and achieve efficient
designs based on various applications and objective functions for professional practice.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Understand Engineering optimization.
• Classify and formulate the optimization problems.
• Acquire the concepts of linear programming & Dynamic programming.
• Perform network analysis
UNIT I:
Introduction to Optimization: Introduction - Historical developments – Engineering
applications of optimization - statement of an optimization problem - classification of
optimization problems - Optimization Techniques. Optimization by calculus: introduction -
Unconstrained functions of a single variable - problems involving simple constraints _
Unconstrained functions of several variables - treatment of equality constraints _ Extension lo
multiple equality constraints - Optimization with inequality constraints - The generalized
Newton-Raphson method.
UNIT II:
Linear Programming: Introduction - Applications of linear programming - standard form
of a linear programming problem - Geometry of linear programming problems - Definitions
and theorems - Solution of a system of Linear simultaneous equations - pivotal reduction of a
general system of equations - Motivation of the simple Method - simplex Algorithm _ Two
phases of the simple method.
UNIT III:
Non-Linear Programming: Introduction - Unimoial Function - unrestricted search - Exhaustive
search - Dichotomous search - Interval Halving method _ Fibonacci method - Golden
section method- comparison of elimination methods _ Unconstrained optimization
techniques- Direct search methods - Random search methods _ grid search method - Univariate
method - Powell’s method - simplex method – Indirect search methods - Gradient of a function -
steepest descent method - conjugate gradient - Newton's method.
58
UNIT IV:
Dynamic Programming: Introduction - Multistage decision processes - concept of sub-
optimization and the principle of optimality - computational procedure in dynamic programming
- example illustrating the Calculus method of solution - example illustrating the tabular of
solution - conversion of a final value problem into an initial value problem - continuous
dynamic programming - Additional applications.
UNIT V:
Network Analysis: introduction - Elementary graph theory - Network variables and problem
types - Minimum-cost route - Network capacity problems - Modification of the directional sense
of the network.
Text Books:
1. Traffic Flow Fundamental by Adolf D. May, Prentice-Hall, New Jersey, 1990.
2. Linear Programming - Methods and Applications by Gan, S.I., McGraw Hill, 2001.
References:
1. Transport Planning and Control by Griffiths J.D., Mathematics in Proceedings of the 3rd
IMA International Conference on Mathematics in Transport Planning and Control; Pergamon
Publishers, 1998.
2. Introductory Operations Research by H.S. Kasene and K.D. Kumar, Springer (India), Pvt
.LTd. 2004.
3. Traffic Engineering by Roger P. Roess, Elena S. Prassas, William R. McShane, Pearson,
2011.
4. Engineering optimization: Theory and practice by SS Rao, New Age International (P)
Limited, 3rd edition, 1998.
59
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(HIG41) CONSTRUCTION TECHNOLOGY AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT
(Open Elective - II)
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Understand role of project management
• Learn on preparation of project Schedules, Life cycle cost.
• Study about critical construction management
• Understand about BOT, BOOT & PP projects
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Develop Organization Structure of Construction Company
• Estimate Project Cost and Develop Cost Models
• Prepare Contract documents
• Arbitration and settlement of disputes, arbitration and conciliation Act
UNIT I:
Introduction to Project Management: Construction as industry and its challenges, Role of
Project management, systems approach, systems theory and Concepts, Organisation,
Management Functions, Overview of Management Objectives, Tools and Techniques, Life cycle
of construction projects, time estimates and construction schedules, CPM and PERT, Linear
programming, queuing concept, simulation, bidding models, game theory
UNIT II:
Project Cost Estimation: Approximate cost, detailed cost estimates, administrative approval
and expenditure sanctions, rate analysis by client and contractor, bidding processes and
strategies, Pre-qualification of bidders, construction equipment, equipment economics, various
items of construction : Earthwork, Excavation. Earth- moving, Drilling, Blasting, dewatering,
foundation, Finishing items, construction safety including of fire and electrical works
UNIT III:
Contract Management: Why law is critical to construction management, contract, its definition,
Indian contract Act, documents forming a contract, Tendering and contractual procedures, stages
of awarding contract, general conditions of Indian (domestic) contracts, General conditions of
International contracts (FIDIC), contract administration; Duties and responsibilities of parties;
important site documents, importance of standards and codes in contract documents.
60
UNIT IV:
Quality Management and Safety in Construction Industry: Quality control by statistical
methods, sampling plan, control charts, ISO 14000, Safety Measures, Safety Programmes, Safety
Awareness and Implementation of Safety Plan - Compensation
UNIT V:
Interpretation of Contract: Interpretation of contract in case of inconsistency, post contract
problems, contract interpretation, concealed conditions, termination of contract, claims and
disputes, dispute resolution techniques, negotiations, arbitration and settlement of disputes,
arbitration and conciliation Act, alternate dispute resolutions, delay, liquidated damages, actual
damages.
Text Books:
1. A Guide to Quantity Surveyors, Engineers Architects and Builders(Vol I: Taking off
quantities, Abstracting & Billing; Vol II: Analysis of Prices) by Kharb, K.S.
2. Building and Engineering Contracts by Patil, B.S., Pune
References:
1. Law relating to Building and Engineering Contracts in India by Gajerai, G.T., Butterworths.
2. Construction Cost Engineering Handbook by Anghel Patterson - Marcel DekkenInc
3. Fundamentals of Construction Management and Organisations by K.Waker A Teraih and
Jose M.Grevarn;
4. A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK), Draft Copy, 1994. A
Publication of the Project management Institute, USA.
61
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(GTE41) GROUND-FOUNDATION-STRUCTURES INTERACTION
(Open Elective - II)
Course Objectives:
Student shall be able to
• Develop an understanding to function on multidisciplinary areas.
• Introduce the concepts and terminology of structure soil interaction.
• Create ability to identify, formulates, and solve foundation engineering problems.
• Understanding the impact of engineering solutions in economic and environmental
context.
Course Outcomes:
After the completion of the course student should be able to
• Identify, formulate and solve geotechnical engineering problems.
• Design a foundation system for economic and safe aspects for the society.
• Improvise techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for necessary
understanding in geotechnical engineering practice.
• Apply the theoretical knowledge to solve real life problems in the field.
UNIT I:
Soil-Foundation Interaction: Introduction to soil-foundation interaction problems, Soil
behaviour, Foundation behaviour, Interface behaviour, Scope of soil foundation interaction
analysis, soil response models, Winkler, Elastic continuum, Two parameter elastic models,
Elastic-plastic behaviour, Time dependent behaviour.
UNIT II:
Beam on Elastic Foundation- Soil Models: Infinite beam, Two-parameters models, Isotropic
elastic halfspace model, Analysis of beams of finite length, combined footings.
UNIT III:
Analysis of Finite Plates: Axis symmetric loading of circular plate, two-parameter elastic
medium, elastic solid medium, Application of strain enerygy method. Rectangular plates-elastic
medium, elastic solid medium. Numerical analysis of finite plates – Finite difference method,
Finite element techniques, Discrete element method.
UNIT IV:
Analysis of Axially and Laterally Loaded Piles and Pile Groups: Elastic analysis of single
pile, Theoretical solutions for settlement and load distributions, Analysis of pile group,
Interaction analysis, Load distribution in groups with rigid cap, Load deflection prediction for
laterally loaded piles, Sub grade reaction and elastic analysis, Interaction analysis, Pile-raft
system.
62
UNIT V:
Ground-Foundation-Structure Interaction: Effect of structure on ground foundation
interaction, Static and dynamic loads.
Text Books:
1. Elastic Analysis of Soil-Foundation Interaction by Selvadurai, A. P. S., Elsevier, 1979
2. Pile Foundation Analysis and Design by Poulos, H. G., and Davis, E. H.,Wiley, 1980
References:
1. Foundation Analysis by Scott, R. F., Prentice-Hall, 1981
2. Foundation Design & Analyses by Bowles, J. E., Mc Graw Hill Education, Fifth Edition
3. Advanced Foundation Engineering by Das, B. M., Cengage learning, Seventh Edition, 2011
63
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
I Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(HIG52) HIGHWAY MATERIAL CHARACTERIZATION & TRAFFIC SIMULATION
LAB
CYCLE I:
Tests on Functional & Structural Characteristics Pavement:
a) Road Roughness survey using MERLIN
b) Pavement evaluation using DCP & BBD Techniques
c) Aggregate Polishing Value and Skid Resistance
CYCLE II:
Bitumen & Bituminous Mix Performance:
a) Test on Rotational Viscometer using Brookfield Viscosity
b) Test on Long Term Ageing
c) Test on Short Term Ageing using RTFO
d) Loss on Heating
e) Resilient Modulus of Bituminous Mixes
f) Rutting Characteristics of Bituminous Mixes
CYCLE III:
Traffic Simulation: Simulation for traffic architecture elements & Traffic Planning using
VISSIM, VISUM.
Text Books:
1. Highway materials and pavement testing by Khanna, S.K., Justo, C.E.G., and A.
Veeraragavan, 5th edition, Nem chand and brothers, Roorkee, India, 2009.
References:
1. Huang, Y.H. Pavement Analysis and Design, Pearson Prentice Hall, New Jersey, USA, 2004.
2. Relevant IS, IRC, ASTM Codes.
Note: All laboratory tests are as per IS, ASTM, AASHTO, TRL, IRC, BS procedures /
specifications and guidelines
64
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
L T/P/D C
I Year- II Sem. M.Tech. (Highway Engineering)
0 0 4
(HIG62) MINI PROJECT– II
A mini project work shall be carried out on any topic of Highway engineering and a
seminar should be given on the same along with a brief report.
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
L T/P/D C
II Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Highway Engineering)
0 0 4
(HIG63) COMPREHENSIVE VIVA-VOCE
II Year – I Sem. M.Tech. (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
0 0 8
(HIG71) INTERNSHIP / DISSERTATION – PHASE- I
II Year – II Sem. M.Tech. (Highway Engineering) L T/P/D C
0 0 18
(HIG72) DISSERTATION – PHASE- II
65
