SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/mtechsyl/r15mcnis.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE
AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
M. Tech.
COMPUTER NETWORKS AND
INFORMATIO N SECURITY
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2015-2016)
VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous Institute, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
NBA Accreditation for CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT B.Tech. Programmes
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi, Affiliated to JNTUH
Recognized as “College with Potential for Excellence” by UGC
Vignana Jyothi Nagar, Pragathi Nagar, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500 090, TS, India.
Telephone No: 040-2304 2758/59/60, Fax: 040-23042761
E-mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
1
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
Academic Regulations - M.Tech. Programme
(Applicable for the batches admitted from the academic year 2015-2016)
1. Introduction
Academic programmes of the institute are governed by rules and regulations as approved by the
Academic Council of the institute.
These academic rules and regulations are effective from the academic year 2015-16, for the
students admitted into two year post graduate programme offered by the college leading to Master
of Technology (M. Tech.) degree in different specializations offered by the departments of Civil
Engineering, Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electronics and
Communication Engineering, Computer Science and Engineering, Information Technology and
Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering.
The M.Tech. degree of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad shall be conferred
on students who are admitted to the programme after fulfilling all the requirements for the award of
the degree.
1.1 Eligibility for Admissions
Admission to the above program shall be made subject to the eligibility and qualifications
prescribed from time to time. Admissions shall be made on the basis of GATE Rank and merit rank
obtained at an Entrance Test conducted by the TSSCHE or as decided by TSSCHE subject to
reservations prescribed by the university/ State Government from time to time.
2. Programmes of study
The following two year M.Tech. degree programmes of study are offered by the departments at
VNR VJIET.
Department Specializations
1. Advanced Manufacturing Systems
ME 2. Automation
3. CAD/CAM
1. Highway Engineering
CE 2. Structural Engineering
3 Geotechnical Engineering
1. Power Electronics
EEE
2. Power Systems
1. Software Engineering
CSE
2. Computer Science and Engineering
1. VLSI System Design
ECE
2. Embedded Systems
EIE Electronics and Instrumentation
IT Computer Networks and Information Security
2
 ‘ENGLISH’ language is used as the medium of instruction in all the above programmes.
3. Attendance requirements
Each academic year shall be divided into two semesters, each of 90 Instructions days, excluding
examination, evaluation, declaration of results etc.
3.1 A student shall be eligible to appear for the semester end examinations in subject if he / she
acquire a minimum of 75% of attendance in that subject.
3.2 Shortage of attendance up to 10% in any subject (i.e., attendance of 65% and above and
below 75%) in a semester may be condoned by the Institute Academic Committee based on
the rules prescribed by the Academic Council of the Institute from time to time.
3.3 A student shall get minimum required attendance in at least three (03) theory subjects in the
present semester to get promoted to the next semester. In order to qualify for the award of the
M.Tech. degree, the student shall complete all the academic requirements of the subjects, as per
the course structure.
3.4 Shortage of attendance below 65% shall in NO case be condoned.
3.5 A stipulated fee shall be payable towards condonation of shortage of attendance.
3.6 In case the student secures less than the required attendance in any subject(s), he shall not be
permitted to appear for the semester end examination in that subject(s). He shall re-register for the
subject when offered next.
4. Evaluation
i. The performance of a student in each semester shall be evaluated subject–wise with a maximum
of 100 marks for theory and 100 marks for practical subjects. In addition, mini-project and
comprehensive viva-voce shall be evaluated for 100 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects, the distribution shall be 40 marks for mid-term evaluation and 60 marks
for the semester end examination.
 Mid-Term Evaluation (40 M):
Mid-term evaluation consists of mid-term examination (30 M) and assignment/objective test/
case study/course project (10 M).
 Mid-term examination (30 M):
 For theory subjects, two mid-term examinations shall be conducted in each semester as per
the academic calendar. Each mid-term examination shall be evaluated for 30 marks.
 Pattern of Mid-term examination:
3 X 10M = 30 M (three internal choice questions one from each UNIT shall be given, the
student has to answer ONE question from each UNIT)
 There shall be TWO mid-term examinations for each subject and the average of two mid-term
examinations shall be considered for calculating final mid-term examination marks in that
subject.
3
 Assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project (10 M):
 Two assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project shall be given to the students
covering the syllabus of first mid-term and second mid-term examinations respectively and
evaluated for 10 marks each.
 The first assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project shall be submitted before first
mid-term examination and the second one shall be submitted before second mid-term
examination.
 The average of 2 assignments shall be taken as final assignment marks.
iii. For practical subjects, there shall be a continuous evaluation during the semester for 40 marks
and 60 marks for semester end examination. Out of the 40 marks, day-to-day work in the
laboratory shall be evaluated for 10 marks, and 15 marks for practical examination and 15
marks for laboratory record.
 Semester End Examination (60 M):
(a) Theory Courses
Question paper pattern for semester end examination (60 Marks)
 Paper shall consist of 05 questions of 10 marks each. (05X12M = 60 M)
 There shall be 01 question from each unit with internal choice.
(b) Practical Courses
Each laboratory course shall be evaluated for 60 marks. The semester end examination shall be
conducted by two examiners, one Internal and other external concerned with the subject of the
same / other department / Industry. The evaluation shall be as per the standard format.
4.1. Evaluation of Mini-Project: There shall be two presentations during the first year, one in each
semester. For mini-project 1 and mini-project 2, a student under the supervision of a faculty
member, shall collect the literature on a topic, critically review the literature, carry out the mini-
project, submit it to the department in a report form and shall make an oral presentation before the
departmental Project Review Committee (PRC). The Departmental PRC consists of Head of the
Department, supervisor and one senior faculty member of the department. For each mini-project
there shall be only internal evaluation of 100 marks. A student has to secure a minimum of 50% to
be declared successful.
4.2. There shall be a comprehensive viva-voce in II year I semester. The comprehensive viva- Voce
shall be conducted by a committee consisting of Head of the Department and two senior faculty
members of the department. The comprehensive viva-voce is aimed to assess the students’
understanding in various subjects studied during the M.Tech. programme of study. The
comprehensive viva-voce shall be evaluated for 100 marks by the committee. There are no internal
marks for the comprehensive viva-voce. A student must secure a minimum of 50% to be declared
successful.
4
4.3. A student shall be deemed to have secured the minimum academic requirement in a subject if he
secures a minimum of 40% of marks in the semester end examination and a minimum aggregate
of 50% of the total marks in the semester end examination and mid-term evaluation taken together.
4.4. A student shall be given one chance to re-register, after completion of the course work, for each
subject, provided the internal marks secured by a student are less than 50% and he has failed in
the semester end examination. In such a case student may re-register for the subject(s) and
secure required minimum attendance. Attendance in the re-registered subject(s) has to be
calculated separately to become eligible to write the end examination in the re-registered
subject(s). Re-registration for the subjects is allowed only if that particular re-registration subjects
are the hindrance for the award of Degree. Re-registration is allowed in this case provided the
student doesn’t have any subject(s) yet to pass other than the re-registration subjects where the
internal marks are less than 50% with prior permission.
4.5. Laboratory examination for M.Tech. courses must be conducted with two examiners, one of them
being laboratory class teacher and second examiner shall be a teacher of same specialization
either external or a teacher from the same department other than the teacher who conducted
laboratory classes for that batch.
5. Evaluation of Project / Dissertation Work.
5.1 Registration of Project Work: A student shall be permitted to register for the project work after
satisfying the attendance requirement of all the subjects (theory and practical subjects).
5.2 A Project Review Committee (PRC) shall be constituted with at least four members namely HOD,
PG coordinator of the M.Tech. programme, project supervisor and one senior faculty member of
same specialization.
5.3 After getting permission as per 5.1, a student has to submit, in consultation with the project
supervisor, the title, objective and plan of action of his project work to the Departmental PRC for its
approval. Only after obtaining the approval of PRC, the student can initiate the project work.
5.4 If a student wishes to change his supervisor or topic of the project he can do so with the approval
of PRC. However, the committee shall examine whether the change of topic/supervisor leads to a
major change of his initial plans of project proposal. If so, the date of registration for the project
work shall be the date of change of supervisor or topic as the case may be.
5.5 Internal evaluation of the project shall be on the basis of the seminars (Project reviews) conducted
during the second year by the PRC. A student shall submit draft report in a spiral bound copy form.
5.6 The work on the project shall be initiated in the beginning of the second year and the duration of
project is for two semesters. A student is permitted to submit Project work only after successful
completion of theory and practical course with the approval of PRC not earlier than 240 days from
the date of registration of the project work. For the approval of PRC the student shall submit the
draft copy of thesis to the Head of the Department (Through project supervisor and PG
coordinator) and shall make an oral presentation before the PRC.
The student is eligible to submit project work if he has published at least one paper covering 70%
of the project work and presented his project work in Show and Tell activity.
5
5.7 After approval of PRC, every student has to submit three copies of the project dissertation certified
by the supervisor to the Department.
5.8 The dissertation shall be adjudicated by one examiner selected by the Chief Superintendent. For
this, HOD shall submit a panel of 3/ 5 examiners, who are eminent in that field with the help of the
concerned guide.
5.9 If the report of the examiner is not favourable, the student shall revise and resubmit the
Dissertation, within the time frame as prescribed by PRC. If the report of the examiner is
unfavourable again, the dissertation shall be summarily rejected.
5.10 If the report of the examiner is favorable, viva-voce examination shall be conducted by a board
consisting of the project supervisor, Head of the Department and the external examiner who
adjudicated the Thesis. The Board shall jointly report students work as:
A. Excellent
B. Good
C. Satisfactory
D. Unsatisfactory
Head of the Department shall coordinate and make arrangements for the conduct of viva-voce
examination. The student has to secure any one of the grades as Excellent, Good or Satisfactory
on his dissertation and viva-voce. If the report of the viva-voce is unsatisfactory, the student shall
retake the viva-voce examination after three months, making modifications as suggested. If he fails
to get a satisfactory report at the second viva-voce examination, he has to re-register for the
project work as mentioned in clause 5.1. However, the student may select a new guide or new
topic or both with the approval of the PRC and submit the project dissertation with a minimum of
240 days from the date of re-registration. Of course, this shall not prejudice the clause 6.1 below.
6. Award of Degree and Class
A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the M.Tech. degree, if he pursues a course of
study and complete it successfully for not less than two academic years and not more than four
academic years.
6.1 A student, who fails to fulfil all the academic requirements for the award of the degree within four
academic years from the year of his admission, for any reason whatsoever, shall forfeit his seat in
M.Tech. Course.
6.2 A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 84 credits and
earn 84 credits. Marks obtained in all 86 credits shall be considered for the calculation of
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA).
6.3 CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points in two year M.Tech. degree programme is
as follows:
 Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the total marks obtained in mid-term evaluation
and semester end examinations.
6
 Grades and Grade points are assigned as given below.
Grade Points(GP)
Marks Obtained Grade Description of Grade
Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 B Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 C Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 D Pass 6.00
<50 F Fail
Not Appeared the Exam(s) N Absent
The student is eligible for the award of the M.Tech degree with the class as mentioned in the following
table.
CGPA Class
>= 8.0 First Class with Distinction
>= 7.0 and <8.0 First Class
>= 6.0 and < 7.0 Second Class
 Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
 The performance of each student at the end of the each semester shall be indicated in terms of
SGPA. The SGPA shall be calculated as below:
(cid:1794)(cid:1815)(cid:1820)𝐚(cid:1812) (cid:1805)𝐚(cid:1818)(cid:1814)(cid:1805)(cid:1804) 𝐰(cid:1805)(cid:1809)(cid:1807)(cid:1808)(cid:1820)(cid:1805) (cid:1804) (cid:1807)(cid:1818)𝐚(cid:1804)(cid:1805) (cid:1816)(cid:1815)(cid:1809)(cid:1814)(cid:1820)(cid:1819) (cid:1809)(cid:1814) 𝐚 (cid:1819)(cid:1805)(cid:1813)(cid:1805)(cid:1819)(cid:1820)(cid:1805)(cid:1818)
(cid:1793)𝐆𝐏𝐀=
(cid:1794)(cid:1815)(cid:1820)𝐚(cid:1812) (cid:1803)(cid:1818)(cid:1805)(cid:1804)(cid:1809)(cid:1820)(cid:1819) (cid:1809)(cid:1814) 𝐚 (cid:1819)(cid:1805)(cid:1813)(cid:1805)(cid:1819)(cid:1820)(cid:1805)(cid:1818)
(cid:1816)
∑(cid:1809)=𝟏𝐂(cid:1809)∗𝐆(cid:1809)
(cid:1793)𝐆𝐏𝐀= (cid:1816)
∑(cid:1809)=𝟏𝐂(cid:1809)
Where Ci = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘i’
Gi = Grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to the subject ‘i’
i = 1,2,…..p represent the number of subjects in a particular semester
Note: SGPA is calculated and awarded for the students who pass all the courses in a semester.
 Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA):
The CGPA of a student for the entire programme shall be calculated as given below:
7
 Assessment of the overall performance of a student shall be obtained by calculating Cumulative
Grade Point Average (CGPA), which is weighted average of the grade points obtained in all
subjects during the course of study.
(cid:1794)(cid:1815)(cid:1820)𝐚(cid:1812) (cid:1805)𝐚(cid:1818)(cid:1814)(cid:1805)(cid:1804) 𝐰(cid:1805)(cid:1809)(cid:1807)(cid:1808)(cid:1820)(cid:1805)(cid:1804) (cid:1807)(cid:1818)𝐚(cid:1804)(cid:1805) (cid:1816)(cid:1815)(cid:1809)(cid:1814)(cid:1820)(cid:1819) (cid:1806)(cid:1815)(cid:1818) (cid:1820)(cid:1808)(cid:1805) (cid:1805)(cid:1814)(cid:1820)(cid:1809)(cid:1818)(cid:1805) (cid:1816)(cid:1818)(cid:1815)(cid:1807)(cid:1818)𝐚(cid:1813)(cid:1813)(cid:1805)
𝐂𝐆𝐏𝐀=
(cid:1794)(cid:1815)(cid:1820)𝐚(cid:1812) (cid:1803)(cid:1818)(cid:1805)(cid:1804)(cid:1809)(cid:1820)(cid:1819) (cid:1806)(cid:1815)(cid:1818) (cid:1820)(cid:1808)(cid:1805) (cid:1805)(cid:1814)(cid:1820)(cid:1809)(cid:1818)(cid:1805) (cid:1816)(cid:1818)(cid:1815)(cid:1807)(cid:1818)𝐚(cid:1813)(cid:1813)(cid:1805)
(cid:1813)
∑(cid:1810)=𝟏𝐂(cid:1810)∗𝐆(cid:1810)
𝐂𝐆𝐏𝐀= (cid:1813)
∑(cid:1810)=𝟏𝐂(cid:1810)
Where Cj = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘j’
Gj = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to that subject ‘j’
j = 1,2,….m represent the number of subjects of the entire program.
 Grade lower than D in any subject shall not be considered for CGPA calculation. The CGPA shall
be awarded only when the student acquires the required number of credits prescribed for the
program.
 Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
7. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to the Institute, or if any case of indiscipline is pending against him,
the result of the student may be withheld and he shall not be allowed into the next higher semester.
The award or issue of the provisional certificate and the degree may also be withheld in such
cases. This delay shall not prejudice clauses Nos.6.0 and 6.1.
8. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or any other
academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and when they become eligible.
They have to take up Equivalent subjects, as substitute subjects in place of repeated subjects as
decided by the Chairman of the BoS of the respective departments. He/She shall be admitted under
the regulation of the batch in which he/she is readmitted.
9. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each semester shall be 90 instruction days.
8
10. General
10.1 The academic regulations should be read as a whole for purpose of any interpretation.
10.2 In case of any doubt or ambiguity in the interpretation of the above rules, the decision of the
Principal is final.
10.3 The Institute may change or amend the academic regulations and syllabi at any time and the
changes and amendments made shall be applicable to all the students with effect from the date
notified by the Institute.
10.4 Wherever the words he, him or his occur, they shall also include she, her and hers.
11. Supplementary Examination
Supplementary examinations shall be conducted along with regular semester end examinations.
(During even semester regular examinations, supplementary examinations of odd Semester and
during odd semester regular examinations, supplementary examinations of even semester shall be
conducted).
9
DEPARTMENT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
VISION
To impart quality technical education that fosters critical thinking, dynamism and innovation to transform students into
globally competitive IT professionals.
MISSION
 To provide quality education through innovative teaching and learning process that yields advancements in
state-of-the-art information technology.
 To provide a learning environment that promotes quality research.
 To inculcate the spirit of ethical values contributing to the welfare of the society.
10
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs):
IT with specialization in Computer Networks & information security will be able to
1. Apply the necessary mathematical tools and fundamental & advanced knowledge of computer science &
engineering and computer networks
2. Develop computer network & security systems understanding the importance of social, business, technical,
environmental, and human context in which the systems would work
3. Articulate fundamental concepts, design underpinnings of network & security systems, and research
findings to train professionals or to educate post engineering students
4. Contribute effectively as a team member/leader, using common tools and environment, in computer
networks & security projects, research, or education
5. Pursue life-long learning and research in computer networks and contribute to the growth of that field and
society at large
Program Outcomes (POs):
1. Scholarship of knowledge: Apply knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals and an
engineering specialization to the conceptualization of Network & security models.
2. Critical thinking: Identify, formulate, research literature and solve complex Network & security problems
reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics and engineering sciences.
3. Problem solving: Design solutions for complex real time problems and design systems, components or
processes that meet specified needs with appropriate consideration for Network & security
4. Research skill: Conduct investigations of complex Network & security problems including design of
experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of information to provide valid conclusions.
5. Modern tool usage : Create, select and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering
tools, including prediction and modeling, to complex engineering activities, with an understanding of the
limitations.
6. Collaborative and multidisciplinary work: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or
leader in diverse teams and in multidisciplinary settings.
7. Communication: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering
community and with society at large, able to comprehend and write effective reports and design
documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions.
8. Independent and reflective learning: Demonstrate a knowledge and understanding of management and
business practices, such as risk and change management, and understand their limitations.
9. Ethical practices and social responsibility: Understand and commit to professional ethics and
responsibilities and norms of engineering practice. Understand the impact of engineering solutions in a
societal context and demonstrate knowledge of and need for sustainable development.
10. Project management: Ability to undertake problem identification, formulation and providing optimum
solution
11. Lifelong learning: Recognize the need for, and have the ability to engage in independent and life-long
learning.
11
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
DEPARTMENT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
M.TECH. (COMPUTER NETWORKS & INFORMATION SECURITY)
(R15 Regulation)
I Year I Semester COURSE STRUCTURE
Code Group Course L P Credits
CNS01 Data Structures and Algorithms 3 1 4
CNS02 Core Advanced Computer Networks 3 1 4
CNS03 Principles of Information Security 3 1 4
CNS11 Elective – I Advanced Databases 3 0
&
CNS12 Network Programming 3 0
Elective – II
CNS13 Basket Data Mining and Machine Learning 3 0
3 + 3
CNS14 Distributed Systems 3 0
CNS15 Operating Systems Security 3 0
SWE16 Cloud Computing 3 0
SWE31 Scripting Languages
Open 3 0 3
CNS31 Security in E-Commerce
Elective-I
ENG32 Professional and Technical Communication
CNS51 Lab Information Security and Networks Laboratory 0 3 2
CNS61 Mini Project-1 0 0 4
Total 18 6 27
I Year II Semester COURSE STRUCTURE
Code Group Course L P Credits
CNS04 Wireless Networks and Mobile Computing 3 1 4
CNS05 Applications of Network Security 3 1 4
Core
CNS06 Information Security Management and Standards 3 1 4
CNS21 Ethical Hacking 3 0
CNS22 Computer Forensics &Cyber Security 3 0
Elective – III
CNS23 & Adhoc and Sensor Networks 3 0
3 + 3
CNS24 Elective – IV Network Management Systems 3 0
CNS25 Basket Secure Software Engineering 3 0
CNS26 Software Reliability & Metrics 3 0
SWE41 Advanced Unix Programming
Open
CNS41 Android Application Development
Elective-II 3 0 3
SWE42 Soft Skills
CNS52 Lab Wireless Networks Simulation Laboratory 0 3 2
CNS62 Mini Project-2 0 0 4
Total 18 6 27
12
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
DEPARTMENT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
M.TECH. (COMPUTER NETWORKS & INFORMATION SECURITY)
(R15 Regulation)
II Year I Semester COURSE STRUCTURE
Code Course L P Credits
CNS63 Comprehensive Viva-Voce 0 0 4
CNS71 Internship/Dissertation Phase – I 0 0 8
Total 0 0 12
II Year II Semester COURSE STRUCTURE
Code Course L P Credits
CNS72 Dissertation Phase – II 0 0 18
Total 0 0 18
13
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I - I Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(CNS01) DATA STRUCTURES AND ALGORITHMS
Course Objectives:
 Analyze algorithms and know abstract data types
 Experiment and Discriminate stack, queue and their applications.
 Illustrate, Evaluate Searching and sorting techniques in real-world scenarios.
 Summarize the knowledge of graphs and trees and their applications.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Demonstrate how to find the complexity of an algorithm
 Apply fundamental knowledge of Data Structures in Real time scenarios
 Memorize and apply the techniques in Software Development Life cycle.
 Design and implement various algorithms on graph /tree data structures, including finding the minimum
spanning tree and shortest path, Encoding and Decoding.
UNIT I:
Algorithms, Performance analysis- time complexity and space complexity, Asymptotic Notation- Big Oh, Omega and
Theta notations, Complexity Analysis Examples.
Data structures-Linear and nonlinear data structures, ADT concept, Linear List ADT, Array representation, Linked
representation, singly linked lists – insertion, deletion, search operations, doubly linked lists-insertion, deletion
operations, circular lists.
UNIT II:
Stack and Queue ADTs, array and linked list representations, infix to postfix conversion using stack, implementation
of recursion, Circular queue-insertion and deletion, Dequeue ADT, array and linked list representations, Priority
queue ADT, implementation using Heaps, Insertion into a Max Heap, Deletion from a Max Heap.
UNIT III:
Searching–Linear and binary search methods, Hashing-Hash functions, Collision Resolution methods-Open
Addressing, Chaining, Hash table.
Sorting –Bubble sort, Insertion sort, Quick sort, Merge sort, Heap sort, Radix sort, comparison of sorting methods.
UNIT IV:
Trees- Ordinary and Binary trees terminology, Properties of Binary trees, Binary tree ADT , representations, recursive
and non-recursive traversals, Java code for traversals, Threaded binary trees.
Graphs- Graphs terminology, Graph ADT, representations, graph traversals/search methods-DFS and BFS, Java
code for graph traversals, Applications of Graphs-Minimum cost spanning tree using Kruskal’s algorithm, Dijkstra’s
algorithm for Single Source Shortest Path Problem.
UNIT V:
Search trees- Binary search tree-Binary search tree ADT ,insertion, deletion and searching operations,
Balanced search trees, AVL trees-Definition and examples only, Red Black trees – Definition and examples only, B-
Trees-definition, insertion and searching operations, Comparison of Search trees. Text compression-Huffman coding
and decoding, Pattern matching-KMP algorithm.
Text Books:
1. Data structures, Algorithms and Applications in Java, S.Sahni, Universities Press.
14
2. Data structures and Algorithms in Java, Adam Drozdek, 3rd edition, Cengage learning.
3. Data structures and Algorithm Analysis in Java, M.A.Weiss, 2nd edition, Addison-Wesley (Pearson Education).
References:
1. Data structures and Algorithms in Java, R.Lafore, Pearson education.
2. Java: The Complete Reference, 8th Editon, Herbert Schildt, TMH.
3. Data structures and Algorithms in Java, M.T.Goodrich, R.Tomassia, 3rd edition, Wiley India Edition.
15
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I - I Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(CNS02) ADVANCED COMPUTER NETWORKS
Course Objectives:
The objective of this course is to build a solid foundation in computer networks concepts and design
 Analyze computer network architectures, protocols and interfaces.
 Categorize and understand the OSI reference model and the Internet architecture network applications.
 Relate the course and expose students to the concepts of traditional as well as modern day computer
networks
 Estimate the key concepts and practices employed in modern computer networking
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Learn about networking issues and differentiating TCP/IP and 7-Layer OSI models
 Analyze different routing protocols for various applications
 Learn about various switching protocols
 Analyze different WAN protocols and to implement networking concepts through JAVA programming
Suggested Simulator tools: NS-2/NS-3, OPNET, Packet Tracer, Boson, Wireshark.
UNIT I:
Review:
Computer Networks and the Internet: History of Computer Networking and the Internet, Networking Devices, The
Network edge, The Network core, Access Networks and Physical media, ISPs and Internet Backbones.
Networking Models: 5-layer TCP/IP Model, 7-Layer OSI Model, Internet Protocols and Addressing, Equal-Sized
Packets Model: ATM.
UNIT II:
Network Routing:
Routing and its Concepts: Structure of a Router, Basic Router Configuration, Building a Routing Table, Static
Routing, Dynamic Routing – Distance Vector Routing Protocol (RIPv1, RIPv2, EIGRP),Link State Routing Protocols
(OSPF).
UNIT III:
LAN Switching:
Switching and its Concepts: Structure of a Switch, Basic Switch Configuration, Virtual LANs (VLANs), VLAN
Trunking Protocol (VTP), Spanning Tree Protocol (STP), Inter-VLAN Routing.
UNIT IV:
Wide Area Networks (WANs): Introduction to WANs, Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) concepts, Frame Relay
concepts, Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP), Network Address Translation (NAT), IPv6.
UNIT V:
Network Programming using Java: TCP sockets, UDP sockets (datagram sockets), Server programs that can
handle one connection at a time and multiple connections (using multithreaded server), Remote Method Invocation
(Java RMI) -Basic RMI Process, Implementation details - Client-Server Application.
16
Text Books:
1. Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach Featuring the Internet, James F. Kurose, Keith W.Ross, Fifth
Edition, Pearson Education, 2012.
2. Network Fundamentals, Mark Dye, Pearson Education.
3. Routing Protocols & Concepts, Rick Graziani, Pearson Education.
4. LAN Switching & Wireless, Wayne Lewis, Pearson Education.
5. Accessing the WAN, Bob Vachon, Pearson Education.
6. An Introduction to Network Programming with Java, Jan Graba, Springer, rp 2010.
References:
1. Computer Networks: A Systems approach, Larry L. Peterson & Bruce S. Davie, Fifth edition, Elsevier, rp2012.
2. Computer Networks: A Top-Down Approach, Behrouz A. Forouzan, Firoz Mosharaf, Tata McGraw Hill, 2012.
3. Java Network Programming,3rd edition, E.R. Harold, SPD, O’Reilly.(Unit V)
4. An Engineering Approach to Computer Networking, S.Keshav, Pearson Education, 1997.
5. Computer Networks: Principles, Technologies and Protocols For Network Design, Natalia Olifer, Victor Olifer,
Wiley India, 2006.
17
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – I Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(CNS03) PRINCIPLES OF INFORMATION SECURITY
Course Objectives:
 Understand the computer security concepts
 Differentiate symmetric / asymmetric cryptographic techniques.
 Analyse various security mechanisms using cryptographic primitives
 Discriminate of security mechanism at various levels of computer networking and to be familiar with security
defensive devices e.g. firewalls, intrusion detection etc.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Describe and understand the overview of security principles
 Understanding of network security related issues and mitigating mechanisms
 Analyse different malwares and security tools
 Interpret networking and security skills to industrial need
UNIT I:
Information Security: Introduction, History of Information security, What is Security, Security Goals, Security
Attacks (Interruption, Interception, Modification and Fabrication), Security Services (Confidentiality, Authentication,
Integrity, Non-repudiation, access Control and Availability) and Mechanisms, CNSS Security Model, Components
of Information System, Balancing Information Security and Access, Approaches to Information Security
Implementation, The Security Systems Development Life Cycle.
UNIT II:
Cryptography: Concepts and Techniques, symmetric and asymmetric key cryptography, steganography,
Symmetric Key Ciphers: DES structure, DES Analysis, Security of DES, variants of DES, Block cipher
modes of operation , AES structure, Analysis of AES , Key distribution
Asymmetric Key Ciphers: Principles of public key cryptosystems, RSA algorithm, Analysis of RSA, Diffie-Hellman
Key exchange
UNIT III:
Message Authentication and Hash Functions: Authentication requirements and functions, MAC and Hash
Functions,
MAC Algorithms: Secure Hash Algorithm, HMAC, Digital signatures, X.509, Kerberos
UNIT IV:
Security at Layers (Network, Transport, Application): IPSec, Secure Socket Layer(SSL), Transport Layer
Security (TLS), Secure Electronic Transaction(SET), Pretty Good Privacy(PGP), S/MIME
UNIT V:
Intruders, Virus and Firewalls: Intruders, Intrusion detection, password management, Virus and related threats,
Countermeasures, Firewall design principles, Types of firewalls
Text Books:
1. Principles of Information Security : Michael E. Whitman, Herbert J.Mattord, CENGAGE Learning, 4th
Edition.
2. Cryptography and Network Security: William Stallings, Pearson Education, 4th Edition
3. Cryptography and Network Security: Forouzan Mukhopadhyay, McGraw Hill, 2nd Edition
18
References:
1. Cryptography and Network Security: C K Shyamala, N Harini, Dr T R Padmanabhan, Wiley India, 1st Edition.
2. Network Security and Cryptography: Bernard Menezes, CENGAGE Learning
3. Cryptography and Network Security: Atul Kahate, McGraw Hill, 2nd Edition
4. Principles of Computer Security: WM.Arthur Conklin, Greg White, TMH.
5. Handbook of Security of Networks, Yang Xiao, Frank H Li, Hui Chen, World Scientific, 2011
19
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – I Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
Elective - I 3 0 3
(CNS11) ADVANCED DATABASES
Course Objectives:
 Learn the modelling and design of databases.
 Acquire knowledge on parallel and distributed databases and its applications.
 Study the usage and applications of Object Oriented database
 Understand the principles of intelligent databases.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Demonstrate the emerging databases such as XML, Cloud and Big Data.
 Estimate the inquisitive attitude towards research topics in databases.
 Apply the knowledge of XML in designing the data bases.
 Develop the databases that are used in cloud and bigdata.
UNIT I:
Parallel and Distributed Databases: Database System Architectures: Centralized and Client-Server Architectures –
Server System Architectures – Parallel Systems- Distributed Systems – Parallel Databases: I/O Parallelism – Inter
and Intra Query Parallelism – Inter and Intra operation Parallelism – Design of Parallel Systems- Distributed
Database Concepts - Distributed Data Storage – Distributed Transactions – Commit Protocols – Concurrency Control
– Distributed Query Processing – Case Studies.
UNIT II:
Object and Object Relational Databases: Concepts for Object Databases: Object Identity – Object structure – Type
Constructors – Encapsulation of Operations – Methods – Persistence – Type and Class Hierarchies – Inheritance –
Complex Objects – Object Database Standards, Languages and Design: ODMG Model – ODL – OQL – Object
Relational and Extended – Relational Systems: Object Relational features in SQL/Oracle – Case Studies.
UNIT III:
Intelligent Databases: Active Databases: Syntax and Semantics (Starburst, Oracle, DB2)- Taxonomy- Applications
Design Principles for Active Rules- Temporal Databases: Overview of Temporal DatabasesTSQL2- Deductive
Databases: Logic of Query Languages – Datalog- Recursive Rules Syntax and Semantics of Datalog Languages-
Implementation of Rules and Recursion Recursive Queries in SQL- Spatial Databases- Spatial Data Types- Spatial
Relationships Spatial Data Structures- Spatial Access Methods- Spatial DB Implementation.
UNIT IV:
Advanced Data Models: Mobile Databases: Location and Handoff Management - Effect of Mobility on Data
Management -Location Dependent Data Distribution - Mobile Transaction Models - Concurrency Control -
Transaction Commit Protocols- Multimedia Databases- Information Retrieval- Data Warehousing Data Mining- Text
Mining.
UNIT V:
Emerging Technologies: XML Databases: XML-Related Technologies-XML Schema- XML Query Languages-
Storing XML in Databases-XML and SQL- Native XML Databases- Web Databases- Geographic Information
Systems- Biological Data Management- Cloud Based Databases: Data Storage Systems on the Cloud- Cloud
Storage Architectures-Cloud Data Models- Query Languages Introduction to Big Data-Storage-Analysis.
20
Text Books:
1. R. Elmasri, S.B. Navathe, “Fundamentals of Database Systems”, Fifth Edition, Pearson Education/Addison
Wesley, 2007.
2. Thomas Cannolly and Carolyn Begg, “Database Systems, A Practical Approach to Design, Implementation and
Management”, Third Edition, Pearson Education, 2007.
References:
1. Henry F Korth, Abraham Silberschatz, S. Sudharshan, “Database SystemConcepts”, Fifth Edition, McGraw Hill,
2006.
2. C.J.Date, A.Kannan and S.Swamynathan, ”An Introduction to Database Systems”, Eighth Edition, Pearson
Education, 2006.
3. Raghu Ramakrishnan, Johannes Gehrke, “Database Management Systems”, McGraw Hill, Third Edition 2004.
21
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – I Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
Elective - I 3 0 3
(CNS12) NETWORK PROGRAMMING
Course Objectives:
 Understand the working principle of networks, and topologies and understand the architecture of client-
server, and socket programming
 Recognize the deferent protocols like TCP, UDP, and RPC and their applications and an understanding of
the design considerations in building of network applications
 Analyze the in-depth knowledge of Berkley sockets, and the system calls needed to support network
programming
 Understanding of Multi-threading
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Underlay the network hardware, network topologies, and protocols
 Design experiment WIN32 and/or UNIX system calls applications, multi- threading, access controls, signal
processing, and inter-process communication.
 Design considerations in creating network applications.
 Design client server application to support communication interfaces.
UNIT I:
Linux Utilities- File handling utilities, Security by file permissions, Process utilities, Disk utilities, Networking utilities,
Filters, Text processing utilities and Backup utilities. Bourne again shell (bash) - Introduction, pipes and redirection,
here documents, running a shell script, the shell as a programming language, shell Meta characters, file name
substitution, shell variables, command Substitution, shell commands, the environment, quoting, test command,
control structures, arithmetic in shell, shell script examples. Review of C programming concepts-arrays, strings
(library functions), pointers, function pointers, structures, unions, libraries in C.
UNIT II:
Files- File Concept, File types File System Structure, Inodes, File Attributes, file I/O in C using system calls, kernel
support for files, file status information-stat family, file and record locking-lockf and fcntl functions, file permissions-
chmod, fchmod,file ownership-chown,lchown,fchown, links-soft links and hard links – symlink, link, unlink.
File and Directory management – Directory contents, Scanning Directories- Directory file APIs.
Process- Process concept, Kernel support for process, process attributes, process control – process creation,
replacing a process image, waiting for a process, process termination, zombie process, orphan process.
UNIT III:
Signals- Introduction to signals, Signal generation and handling, Kernel support for signals, Signal function, unreliable
signals, reliable signals, kill, raise , alarm, pause, abort, sleep functions. Interprocess Communication - Introduction
to IPC mechanisms, Pipes- creation,IPC between related processes using unnamed pipes, FIFOs-creation,IPC
between unrelated processes using FIFOs(Named pipes), differences between unnamed and named pipes,popen
and pclose library functions,Introduction to message queues, Semaphores and shared memory.
Message Queues- Kernel support for messages, UNIX system V APIs for messages, client/server example.
Semaphores-Kernel support for semaphores, UNIX system V APIs for semaphores.
UNIT IV:
Shared Memory- Kernel support for shared memory, Unix system V APIs for shared memory, client/server example.
22
Network IPC - Introduction to Unix Sockets, IPC over a network, Client-Server model ,Address formats(Unix domain
and Internet domain), Socket system calls for Connection Oriented - Communication ,Socket system calls for
Connectionless - Communication,
Example- Client/Server Programs- Single Server-Client connection, multiple simultaneous clients, Socket options -
setsockopt, getsockopt, fcntl.
UNIT V:
Network Programming in Java-Network basics, TCP sockets, UDP sockets(datagram sockets),Server programs that
can handle one connection at a time and multiple connections(using multithreaded server),Remote Method
Invocation(Java RMI)-Basic RMI Process, Implementation details-Client-Server Application.
Text Books:
1. Unix System Programming using C++, T.Chan, PHI.(Units II,III,IV)
2. Unix Concepts and Applications, 4th Edition, Sumitabha Das, TMH.(Unit I)
3. An Introduction to Network Programming with Java, Jan Graba,Springer,rp 2010.(Unit V)
4. Unix Network Programming, W.R. Stevens, PHI.(Units II,III,IV)
References:
1. Linux System Programming, Robert Love, O’Reilly, SPD.
2. Advanced Programming in the Unix environment, 2nd Edition, W.R.Stevens, Pearson Education.
3. Unix for programmers and users, 3rd Edition, Graham Glass, King Ables, Pearson Education.
4. Beginning Linux Programming, 4th Edition, N.Matthew, R.Stones, Wrox, and Wiley India Edition.
5. Unix Network Programming the Sockets Networking API, Vol.-I, W.R.Stevens, Bill Fenner, A.M.Rudoff, Pearson
Education.
6. Unix Internals, U.Vahalia, Pearson Education.
7. Unix shell Programming, S.G.Kochan and P.Wood, 3rd edition, Pearson Education.
23
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – I Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
Elective - I 3 0 3
(CNS13) DATA MINING AND MACHINE LEARNING
Course Objectives:
 Learn the concepts of knowledge discovery in databases and apply statistical methods to raw data.
 Discover interesting patterns from large amounts of data to analyse and extract patterns to solve the real-
world applications.
 Apply the data mining & machine learning algorithms to build analytical applications.
 Develop a deeper understanding of several major topics in machine learning and Evolutionary algorithms.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Identify the key elements of data mining & machine learning
 Understand the principles, advantages, limitations and possible applications of machine learning
 Discriminate supervised and unsupervised learning to data analysis problems.
 Evaluate the performance of algorithms, as well as formulate and test hypotheses.
UNIT I:
Introduction: Fundamentals of data mining, what is machine Learning, Data Mining and Machine Learning Data
Mining Functionalities, Classification of Data Mining systems, Data Mining Task primitives, Integration of a Data
mining System with a Database or a Data warehouse systems, Major issues in Data Mining.
Data Preprocessing: Needs for Preprocessing the Data, Data Cleaning, Data Integration and Transformation, Data
Reduction, Discretization and Concept Hierarchy Generation.
.
UNIT II:
Mining Frequent Patterns, Associations and Correlations: Basic Concepts, The Apriori algorithm for finding
frequent item sets using candidate generation, Generating association rules from frequent item sets, mining frequent
item sets without candidate generation, Mining various kinds of Association Rules, Correlation Analysis
UNIT III:
Classification: Introduction, The problem of classification, Decision Trees: Splitting criteria, Overfitting, Pruning,
missing values and continuous attributes. Specific algorithms: ID3, CART, C4.5. Assessing classifier accuracy, Cross-
validation, Confidence intervals for the error, Limitations of Decision Trees and Decision Rules, ROC/AUC metrics.
UNIT IV:
Cluster Analysis: Types of Data in Cluster Analysis, A Categorization of Major Clustering Methods, k-means and k-
mediods methods, CLARANS, Agglomerative and divisive hierarchical clustering, chameleon dynamic modelling,
clustering based on density distribution function, wavelet transformation based clustering, conceptual
Clustering, Constraint-Based Cluster Analysis, Outlier Analysis..
UNIT V:
Machine Learning and Advanced Topics: Machine Learning and Statistics, Learning Machine, Types of Learning
Methods, Support vector machines, k-Nearest Neighbour method. Evolutionary algorithm: Fundamentals of genetic
algorithms, Optimization using genetic algorithms, Machine Learning using genetic algorithms, genetic algorithm for
clustering.
Text Books:
1. Data Mining – Concepts and Techniques - Jiawei Han, Micheline Kamber and Jian Pei,3rd edition, Morgan
Kaufmann Publishers, ELSEVIER.
24
2. Machine Learning. , T. Mitchell. McGraw-Hill, 1997
3. Data Mining-Concepts. Models, Methods, and Algorithms- Mehmed Kantardzic, 2nd edition, IEEE press.2011.
4. Ian H. Witten, Eibe Frank and Mark A. Hall, Data Mining: Practical Machine Learning Tools and
Techniques (Third Edition).
References:
1. Data Mining Introductory and advanced topics –Margaret H Dunham, Pearson education.
2. Data Mining Techniques – Arun K Pujari, 2nd edition, Universities Press.
3. Data Classification: Algorithms and Applications-Charu C. Aggarwal, CRC Press, Taylor & Francis Group,
2014.
25
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – I Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
Elective - II 3 0 3
(CNS14) DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS
Course Objectives:
 Summarize the fundamental architectures and distributed system models
 Discriminate conventional OS with distributed OS features
 Understand synchronization problems and Clock mechanisms
 Analyse various security issues in distributed environment cryptographic algorithms and fault tolerant
mechanisms.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Analyse the problem with clock mechanisms in distributed environment
 Understand the concept of distributed transactions , distributed operating system
 Remember the concept of Fault Tolerant Mechanisms
 Apply various security algorithms
UNIT I:
Characterization of Distributed Systems: Introduction, Examples of Distributed systems, Resource sharing
and web, challenges, System models- Introduction, Architectural and Fundamental models, Networking and
Internetworking, Inter process Communication. Distributed objects and Remote Invocation-Introduction,
Communication between distributed objects, RPC, Events and notifications, Case study-Java RMI.
UNIT II:
Operating System Support: Introduction, OS layer, Protection, Processes and Threads, Communication and
Invocation, Operating system architecture, Distributed File Systems- Introduction, File Service architecture, case
study- SUN network file systems. Name Services-Introduction; Name Services and the Domain Name System, Case
study of the Global Name Service, Case study of the X.500 Directory Service.
UNIT III:
Peer to Peer Systems: Introduction, Napster and its legacy, Peer to Peer middleware, Routing overlays, Overlay
case studies-Pastry, Tapestry, Application case studies-Squirrel, Ocean Store. Time and Global States-Introduction,
Clocks, events and Process states, Synchronizing physical clocks, logical time and logical clocks, global states,
distributed debugging. Coordination and Agreement - Introduction, Distributed mutual exclusion, Elections,
Multicast communication, consensus and related problems.
UNIT IV:
Transactions and Concurrency Control: Introduction, Transactions, Nested Transactions, Locks, Optimistic
concurrency control, Timestamp ordering, Comparison of methods for concurrency controls. Distributed
Transactions - Introduction, Flat and Nested Distributed Transactions, Atomic commit protocols, Concurrency control
in distributed transactions, Distributed deadlocks, Transaction recovery, Replication-Introduction, System model and
group communication, Fault tolerant services, Transactions with replicated data.
UNIT V:
Security: Introduction, Overview of Security techniques, Cryptographic algorithms, Digital signatures, Case studies-
Kerberos, TLS, 802.11 WiFi.Distributed shared memory, Design and Implementation issues, Sequential consistency
and Ivy case study, Release consistency and Munin case study, Other consistency models, CORBA case
study-Introduction, CORBA RMI,CORBA Services.
26
Text Books:
1. Distributed Systems Concepts and Design, G Coulouris, J Dollimore and T Kindberg, Fourth Edition, Pearson
Education.
2. Distributed Systems, S.Ghosh, Chapman & Hall/CRC, Taylor& Francis Group, 2010.
References:
1. Distributed Computing, S.Mahajan and S.Shah, OxfordUniversity Press.
2. Distributed Operating Systems Concepts and Design, Pradeep K.Sinha, PHI.
3. Advanced Concepts in Operating Systems, M Singhal, N G Shivarathri, and Tata McGraw- Hill Edition.
4. Distributed Systems – Principles and Paradigms, A.S. Tanenbaum and M.V. Steen, Pearson Education.
5. Distributed Computing, Principles, Algorithms and Systems, Ajay D. Kshemakalyani & MukeshSinghal,
Cambridge, rp 2010
27
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – I Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
Elective - II 3 0 3
(CNS15) OPERATING SYSTEMS SECURITY
Course Objectives:
 Understand the need for security in Operating Systems.
 Knowledge of the state of the art of operating systems security.
 Analyze security vulnerabilities, exploits and defence mechanisms.
 Design various Operating Security Mechanisms
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Describe the typical uses of different operating systems in the enterprise and how they interact with other
components of an organization's core IT infrastructure
 Classify fundamental system administration and audit operations
 Reference U.S. supervisory agency examination work programs
 Perform user administration, access control, auditing, and reporting on various operating systems
UNIT I:
Introduction to Operating System: Operating System (OS), Types of Threats, Basic OS Security Mechanisms
UNIT II:
An Overview of Malware Threats, Logging, Auditing, and Recovery
Malware Taxonomy, Viruses, Worms, Rootkits, Log Generation, Log Auditing, Log-based Recovery
UNIT III:
OS-level Memory Protection, Honeypot and Honeyfarm: Review of OS Memory Management, NX Bit,
Randomization, Honeypot Taxonomy, Recent Honeypot Advances, Deployment and Liability
UNIT IV:
Virtualization Technology and Applications: Virtualization Taxonomy, Security Applications, Special Topic on
Worms
UNIT V :
Assurance and Special Topic- Assurance: Introduction to Assurance, Building Systems with Assurance, Formal
Methods Evaluating Systems
Rootkits: Rootkit Basics, Advanced Rootkit Techniques, Rootkit Defense, Special Topic on Botnets, Malicious Logic,
Vulnerability Analysis, Auditing, Intrusion Detection
Text Books:
1. Michael Palmer Guide to Operating Systems Security, Course Technology, 2004. ISBN: 0-619-16040-3
2. Matt Bishop Computer Security: Art and Science, Addison Wesley, 2003. ISBN 0-201-44099-7
References:
1. Professional Linux Kernel Architecture, Wolfgang Mauerer.
2. Understanding the Linux Kernel, Third Edition, Daniel P. Bovet and Marco Cesati.
3. Charles P. Pfleeger and Shari Lawrence Pfleeger Security in Computing, 3rd Edition, Prentice Hall PTR, 2002.
ISBN 0-130-35548-8
28
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – I Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
Elective - II 3 0 3
(SWE16) CLOUD COMPUTING
(Elective- 1 & 2)
Course Objectives:
 Understand cloud computing paradigm, recognize its various forms
 Get a clear understanding of Cloud Computing fundamentals and its importance to various organizations.
 Master the concepts of IaaS, PaaS, SaaS, Public and Private clouds.
 Understand AWS and learn to develop applications in AWS.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Articulate the main concepts, key technologies, strengths, and limitations of cloud computing
 Identify the architecture and infrastructure of cloud computing, including SaaS, PaaS, IaaS, public cloud,
private cloud, hybrid cloud, etc.
 Explain the core issues of cloud computing such as security, privacy, and interoperability.
 Identify problems, and explain, analyze, and evaluate various cloud computing solutions.
UNIT I:
Systems Modelling, Clustering and Virtualization: Distributed System Models and Enabling Technologies,
Computer Clusters for Scalable Parallel Computing, Virtual Machines and Virtualization of Clusters and Data
Centres.
UNIT II:
Foundations: Introduction to Cloud Computing, Migrating into a Cloud, Enriching the ‘Integration as a Service’
Paradigm for the Cloud Era, the Enterprise Cloud Computing Paradigm.
UNIT III:
Infrastructure as a Service (IAAS) & Platform and Software as a Service (PAAS / SAAS): Virtual machines
provisioning and Migration services, On the Management of Virtual machines for Cloud Infrastructures,
Enhancing Cloud Computing Environments using a cluster as a Service, Secure Distributed Data Storage in Cloud
Computing. Aneka, Comet Cloud, T-Systems’, Workflow Engine for Clouds, Understanding Scientific Applications for
Cloud Environments.
UNIT IV:
Monitoring, Management and Applications: An Architecture for Federated Cloud Computing, SLA Management in
Cloud Computing, Performance Prediction for HPC on Clouds, Best Practices in Architecting Cloud Applications in
the AWS cloud, Building Content Delivery networks using Clouds, Resource Cloud Mashups.
UNIT V:
Governance and Case Studies: Organizational Readiness and Change management in the Cloud age, Data
Security in the Cloud, Legal Issues in Cloud computing, Achieving Production Readiness for Cloud Services.
Text Books:
1. Cloud Computing: Principles and Paradigms by Rajkumar Buyya, James Broberg and Andrzej M. Goscinski,
Wiley, 2011.
2. Distributed and Cloud Computing , Kai Hwang, Geoffery C.Fox, Jack J.Dongarra, Elsevier, 2012.
3. Cloud Computing : A Practical Approach, Anthony T.Velte, Toby J.Velte, Robert Elsenpeter, Tata McGraw
Hill, rp2011
29
References:
1. Cloud Computing : A Practical Approach, Anthony T.Velte, Toby J.Velte, Robert Elsenpeter, Tata McGraw
Hill, rp2011.
2. Enterprise Cloud Computing, Gautam Shroff, Cambridge University Press, 2010.
3. Cloud Computing: Implementation, Management and Security, John W. Rittinghouse, James F.Ransome, CRC
Press, rp2012.
4. Cloud Application Architectures: Building Applications and Infrastructure in the Cloud, George Reese, O’Reilly,
SPD, rp2011.
5. Cloud Security and Privacy: An Enterprise Perspective on Risks and Compliance, Tim Mather, Subra
Kumaraswamy, Shahed Latif, O’Reilly, SPD, rp2011
30
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – I Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
Open Elective-I 3 0 3
(SWE31) SCRIPTING LANGUAGES
Course Objectives:
 To appreciate the nature of scripting and the role of scripting languages
 To effectively apply knowledge of scripting to new situations and learn from the experience
 To be able to analyze requirements of software systems for the purpose of determining the suitability of
implementation of PERL, PHP or PYTHON
 To design and implement PERL, PHP or PYTHON software solutions that accommodate specified requirements
and constraints, based on analysis or modeling or requirements specification
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Distinguish between typical Scripting Languages & system and application programming languages
 Apply the syntax and semantics of languages such as PERL, PHP and PYTHON for effective scripting
 Develop a database driven PHP application
 Design and implement the appropriate software solutions using Scripting Languages
UNIT I:
Introduction to PERL and Scripting: Scripts and Programs, Origin of Scripting, Characteristics of Scripting
Languages, Web Scripting, and the universe of Scripting Languages. PERL- Names and Values, Variables, Scalar
Expressions, Control Structures, arrays, list, hashes, strings, pattern and regular expressions, subroutines
UNIT II:
Advance Perl: Finer points of looping, pack and unpack, file system, eval, data structures, packages, modules,
objects, interfacing to the operating system, Creating Internet ware applications, security Issues.
UNITIII:
PHP Fundamentals: PHP Basics- Features Embedding PHP Code in your Web pages, Outputting the data to the
browser, Data types, Variables, Constants, expressions, string interpolation, control structures . Function, Creating a
Function, Function Libraries, Arrays, strings and Regular Expressions.
UNIT IV
Advanced PHP and MYSQL: PHP and Web Forms, Files, PHP Authentication and Methodologies -Hard Coded, File
Based, Database Based, IP Based, Login Administration, Uploading Files with PHP, Sending Email using PHP, PHP
Encryption Functions, the Mcrypt package, Introducing MYSQL, Installing and Configuring MYSQL, MYSQL Storage
Engines and Datatypes, PHP’s MYSQL Extension-PHP’s MySQL Commands, Querying MySQL, Retrieving and
Displaying Data, Retrieving Database and Table Information Retrieving Field Information.
UNIT V:
Python: Introduction to Python language, python-syntax, statements, functions, Built-in-functions and Methods,
Modules in python, Exception Handling, Integrated Web Applications in Python - Building Small, Efficient Python Web
Systems ,Web Application Framework.
Text Books:
1. The World of Scripting Languages, David Barren, Wiley Publications.
2. Python Web Programming, Steve Holden and David Beazley, New Riders Publications.
3. Beginning PHP and MySQL, 3rd Edition, Jason Gilmore, press Publications (Dream tech.).
31
References:
1. Open Source Web Development with LAMP using Linux, Apache, MySQL, Perl and PHPJ.Lee and B.Ware
(Addison Wesley) Pearson Education.
2. Programming Python, M.Lutz,SPD.
3. PHP 6 Fast and Easy Web Development Julie Meloni and Matt Telles, Cengage Learning Publication
4. PHP 5.1 J.Bayross and S.Shah,The X Team, SPD.
5. Core Python Programming, Chun, Pearson Education.
32
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – I Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
Open Elective-I 3 0 3
(CNS31) SECURITY IN E – COMMERCE
Course Objectives:
 Examine current threats facing organizations that conduct business online
 Analyze cryptography and related security techniques to e-commerce including secure electronic
transactions
 Discriminate electronic payment systems, intellectual property protection
 Understand and analyze security development cycle and security services
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Describe various forms of electronic commerce and explain the range of threats to e-commerce security
 Identify different areas susceptible to malicious activity
 Summarize different cryptographic techniques and their technical characteristics w.r.t e-commerce
 Explain how cryptography can be, and is, used to achieve security
UNIT I:
Introduction to E-Commerce: Network and E-Commerce – Types of E-Commerce – E- Commerce Business
Models: B2C, B2B, C2C, P2P and M-commerce business models – E- Commerce Payment systems: Types of
payment system – Credit card E-Commerce transactions – B2C E-Commerce Digital payment systems – B2B
payment system.
UNIT II:
Security and Encryption: E-Commerce Security Environment – Security threats in E-Commerce environment –
Policies, Procedures and Laws.
UNIT III:
Inter-organizational trust in E-Commerce: Need – Trading partner trust – Perceived benefits and risks of
Ecommerce – Technology trust mechanism in E-Commerce – Perspectives of organizational, economic and political
theories of inter-organizational trust – Conceptual model of inter-organizational trust in Ecommerce participation.
UNIT IV:
Introduction to trusted computing platform: Overview – Usage Scenarios – Key components of trusted Platform –
Trust mechanisms in a trusted platform. Trusted platforms for organizations and individuals –Trust models and the E-
Commerce domain.
UNIT V:
E-Commerce Security: SET for E-Commerce Transactions, Business requirements for SET, SET System
Participants, Dual Signature and Signature, Authentication and Message Integrity, Payment Processing. Secure
Internet Programming, Security development life cycle, Internet Security Standards and Internet Security Products,
Trusted Internet Security services.
Text Books:
1. Kenneth C. Laudon and Carol Guercio Trave, “E-Commerce Business Technology Society”,, Pearson Education,
2005.
2. Pauline Ratnasingam, “Inter-Organizational Trust for Business-to-Business E- Commerce”, IRM, Press, 2005.
3. Siani Pearson, et al, “Trusted Computing Platforms: TCPA Technology in Context”, Prentice Hall, PTR, 2002
33
References:
1. Ravi Kalakota and Andrew Whinston –“Frontiers Electronic Commerce”, 2nd Edition, Addison-Wesley, 1999.
2. P.T. Joseph, S.J, “E Commerce”, Prentice Hall, 2nd Edition, 2008
3. Anup Gosh, “E-Commerce Security and Privacy”, 2001,
4. Relevant research papers from the journals
34
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – I Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
Open Elective-I 3 0 3
(ENG32) PROFESIONAL AND TECHNICAL COMMUNICATION
Introduction:
This course aims to offer students a practical approach to professional and technical communication; and to focus
specifically on verbal and written communication. Additionally, the course is designed to build confidence and; group
communication and public speaking competence. Each unit in the syllabus is devised so as to include a writing
component as well as an oral component.
Course Objectives:
• To enable the students to write without errors in spelling, mechanics, grammar and punctuation; resume,
business letters, proposals and reports to accomplish academic as well as professional goals.
• To train students to write clearly, cohesively, emphatically and concisely.
• To groom students to speak accurately and fluently and prepare them for real world activities
• To train students in soft skills through group discussion to improve their EQ.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 analyze communication situations and audiences to make choices about the most effective and efficient
way to communicate and deliver messages
 write resume, business letters, project proposals and reports
 speak fluently and address a large group of audience and participate in discussions.
 navigate through complex environments through interpersonal and collaborative skills.
UNIT I:
 Oral Communication :Self-introduction
 Applications and Covering letters
 Resume Writing
 Job Interviews
UNIT II:
 Oral Communication: Impromptu Speech
 Reading Business and Technical Texts
 Writing E-mails
 Writing Business Letters and Business Memos
UNIT III:
 Oral Communication: Group Discussions
 Summarizing and Synthesising
 Writing Abstracts
UNIT IV:
 Oral Communication : Debate
 Writing Business Proposals
 Writing Technical Proposals
UNIT V:
 Oral Communication: Making Presentations
35
 Interpreting Graphic Information
 Writing Business Reports
 Writing Technical Reports
Text and Materials:
1. Effective Technical Communication, Ashraf Rizvi, M (2005), Tata Mc Graw Hill Publishing Company Limited,
New Delhi.
2. Technical Communication: Principles and Practices, M. Raman and S. Sharma, OUP, 2004. (Indian Edition)
References:
1. Technical Communication: A Practical Approach (7th ed.) Longman, William S. Pfeiffer, (2012)
2. Technical Communication, Burnett, Rebecca, 5th Ed., Heinle, 2001.
3. Technical Writing Process and Product, Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson, 3rd edition, New Jersey:
Prentice Hall 1999
4. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies , Markel, Mike, (8th EDITION (2006-2007)
5. Business Correspondence and Report Writing, R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan, Third Edition, TMH, 2002. (Indian
Edition)
6. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical Communication: A Reader-Centered
Approach ( 5th ed..) (pp. 457-473). Boston: Heinle.
36
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – I Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(CNS51) INFORMATION SECURITY AND NETWORKS LAB
Course Objectives:
 Describe about bit stuffing , character stuffing and CRC methods and to understand various routing
algorithms and wireless LAN concepts
 Understand various algorithms to identify shortest path.
 Classify symmetric encryption algorithms and Analyse security aspects of symmetric and asymmetric
algorithms
 Design and implement various digital signature algorithms
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Summarize data link layer framing methods, CRC , Dijkstra‘s algorithm and routing algorithms
 Demonstrate and simulate Ethernet, token ring, TCP and to configure wireless LAN
 Examine and implement symmetric and asymmetric algorithms
 Implement key generation and digital signature mechanisms.
WEEK 1:
1. Implement the data link layer framing methods such as character stuffing and bit stuffing.
2. Implement on a data set of characters the three CRC polynomials – CRC 12, CRC 16 and CRC CCIP.
WEEK 2:
3. Implement Dijkstra‘s algorithm to compute the Shortest path through a graph.
4. Take an example subnet graph with weights indicating delay between nodes. Now obtain Routing table at each
node using distance vector routing algorithm.
5. Take an example subnet of hosts. Obtain broadcast tree for it.
WEEK 3:
6. Demonstrate the operation of Ethernet.
7. Demonstrate the implementation of a token ring network.
WEEK 4:
8. Demonstrate the congestion control algorithms implemented by the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP).
9. Demonstrate the configuring a wireless LAN.
INFORMATION SECURITY
(using C, C++, Java, etc.)
WEEK 5:
1. Write a C program that contains a string (char pointer) with a value ‘Hello world’. The program should XOR each
character in this string with 0 and displays the result.
2. Write a C program that contains a string (char pointer) with a value ‘Hello world’. The program should AND, OR
and XOR each character in this string with 127 and display the result.
WEEK 6:
3. Write a Java program to perform encryption and decryption using the following algorithms
a) Ceaser cipher
b) Substitution cipher
37
c) Hill Cipher
4. Write a JAVA program to implement the DES algorithm.
WEEK 7:
5. Implement DES-2 and DES-3 using Java cryptography package.
6. Write a Java program that contains functions, which accept a key and input text to DES encrypted/decrypted.
This program should use the key to encrypt/decrypt the input by using the triple Des algorithm. Make use of Java
Cryptography package.
WEEK 8:
7. Write a C/JAVA program to implement the Blowfish algorithm logic.
8. Write a C/JAVA program to implement the Rijndael algorithm logic.
WEEK 9:
9. Write C/JAVA program to implement RC4stream cipher
10. Using Java cryptography, encrypt the text “Hello world” using Blowfish. Create your own key using Java
keytool.
WEEK 10:
11. Write a Java program to implement RSA algorithm.
12. Consider the end user as one of the parties (Alice) and the JavaScript application as the other party (Bob).
Calculate the message digest of a text using the SHA-1 algorithm and MD5 algorithm in JAVA.
WEEK 11:
13. Write a Java program to encrypt user’s passwords before they are stored in a database table, and to retrieve
them whenever they are to be brought back for verification.
14. Write a program in java, which performs a digital signature on a given text using Diffie-Hellmann algorithm .
WEEK 12: Lab Internal
Text Book:
1. Build Your Own Security Lab, Michael Gregg, And Wiley India.
References:
1. Computer Networks: A Systems approach, (Network Simulation Experiments Manual) Larry L. Peterson & Bruce
S. Davie, Fourth edition, Elsevier.
2. Network Fundamentals, Mark Dye, Pearson Education.
3. Routing Protocols & Concepts, Rick Graziani, Pearson Education.
4. LAN Switching & Wireless, Wayne Lewis, Pearson Education.
5. Accessing the WAN, Bob Vachon, Pearson Education.
6. Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach Featuring the Internet, James F. Kurose, Keith W.Ross, Fifth
Edition, Pearson Education, 2012.
7. Computer Networks: A Systems approach, Larry L. Peterson & Bruce S. Davie, Fifth edition, Elsevier, RP 2012.
8. An Introduction to Network Programming with Java, Jan Graba, Springer, rp 2010.
38
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
L T/P/D C
I -II Sem. M.Tech. (Computer Networks & Information Security)
0 0 4
(CNS61) MINI PROJECT – I
A mini project work shall be carried out on any topic of Computer Networks and Information Security and a seminar
should be given on the same along with a brief report.
39
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – II Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(CNS04) WIRELESS NETWORKS AND MOBILE COMPUTING
Course Objectives:
 Comprehend the differences between mobile and wireless
 Understand GSM Architecture, Goals of mobile IP and Ad-Hoc networks
 Identify Broadcast Systems
 Analyse WAP, Bluetooth and Secure Environment
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Summarize the various Application areas of mobile and wireless devices
 Describe GSM Transmission Technologies and draw backs of traditional TCP
 Understand architecture of DAB and DVB
 Identify various Mark-up Languages and their advantages/disadvantages and describe Smart client security
UNIT I:
Introduction to Mobile and Wireless Landscape: Definition of Mobile and Wireless, Components of Wireless
Environment, Challenges
Overview of Wireless Networks, Categories of Wireless Networks
Wireless LAN: Infra red Vs radio transmission, Infrastructure and Ad-hoc Network, IEEE 802.11
Global System For Mobile Communications (GSM): GSM Architecture, GSM Entities, Call Routing in GSM, PLMN
Interfaces, GSM Addresses and Identifiers, Network Aspects in GSM, GSM Frequency Allocation, Authentication
and Security
UNIT II:
Mobile Network Layer: Mobile IP (Goals, assumptions, entities and terminology, IP packet delivery, agent
advertisement and discovery, registration, tunneling and encapsulation, optimizations), Dynamic Host Configuration
Protocol (DHCP), Mobile Ad-hoc networks: Routing, destination Sequence Distance Vector, Dynamic Source
Routing.
Mobile Transport Layer: Traditional TCP, Indirect TCP, Snooping TCP, Mobile TCP, Fast retransmit/fast recovery,
Transmission /time-out freezing, Selective retransmission, Transaction oriented TCP.
UNIT III:
Broadcast Systems: Overview, Cyclical repetition of data, Digital audio broadcasting: Multimedia object transfer
protocol, Digital video broadcasting: DVB data broadcasting, DVB for high-speed internet access, Convergence of
broadcasting and mobile communications.
UNIT IV:
Protocols and Tools: Wireless Application Protocol-WAP. (Introduction, protocol architecture, and treatment of
protocols of all layers), Bluetooth (User scenarios, physical layer, MAC layer, networking, security, link management)
and J2ME.
UNIT V:
Mobile and Wireless Security: Creating a Secure Environment, Security Threats, Security Technologies, Other
Security Measures, WAP Security, Smart Client Security
Text Books:
1. Jochen Schiller, “Mobile Communications”, Pearson Education, Second Edition, 2008.
40
2. Martyn Mallick, “Mobile and Wireless Design Essentials”, Wiley, 2008.
3. Asoke K Talukder, et al, “Mobile Computing”, Tata McGraw Hill, 2008.
References:
1. Mobile Computing,Raj Kamal,Oxford University Press.
2. William Stallings, “ Wireless Communications & Networks”, Person, Second Edition,2007.
3. Frank Adelstein et al, “Fundamentals of Mobile and Pervasive Computing”, TMH, 2005.
4. Jim Geier, “Wireless Networks first-step”, Pearson, 2005.
5. Sumit Kasera et al, “2.5G Mobile Networks: GPRS and EDGE”, TMH, 2008.
41
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – II Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(CNS05) APPLICATIONS OF NETWORK SECURITY
Course Objectives:
 Demonstrate about security concepts, Ethics in Network Security.
 Identify security threats, and the security services and mechanisms to counter them
 Classify security services and mechanisms in the network protocol stack
 Summarize and apply email security services and mechanisms
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Recall network security threats and determine efforts to counter them
 Explain a secure access client for access to a server
 Determine different attacks in the network
 Examine the different forensics on Network.
UNIT I:
IEEE 802.11 Wireless LAN Security: Background, Authentication: Pre- WEP Authentication, Authentication in
WEP, Authentication and key agreement in 802.11i, Confidentiality and Integrity: Data protection in WEP, Data
protection in TKIP and CCMP
UNIT II:
Cell Phone Security: Preliminaries, GSM (2G) Security, Security in UMTS (3G)
UNIT III:
Non-Cryptographic Protocol Vulnerabilities: DoS and DdoS, Session Hijacking and Spoofing, Pharming
Attacks, Wireless LAN Vulnerabilities Software Vulnerabilities: Phishing, Buffer Overflow, Format String Attacks,
Cross-Site Scripting(XSS), SQL Injection Access Control in the Operating System: Preliminaries, Discretionary
Access Control – Case Studies: Windows/ Unix, Mandatory Access Control, Role-Based Access Control, SE Linux
and Recent Trends
UNIT I V:
Intrusion Prevention and Detection: Introduction, Prevention versus Detection, Types of Intrusion Detection
systems, DdoS Attack Prevention/Detection, Malware Defence Web Services Security: Motivation, Technologies for
Web Services: XML, SOAP, WSDL and UDDI, SSl, WS-Security, SAML, Ws-Trust, WS-Security Policy
UNIT V:
Computer and Network Forensics: Definition, Computer Forensics: History of Computer Forensics, Elements of
Computer Forensics, Investigative Procedures, Analysis of Evidence, Network Forensics: Intrusion Analysis, Damage
Assessment, Forensic Tools: Computer Forensic tools, Network Forensic Tools
Text Books:
1. Network Security and Cryptography: Bernard Menezes, CENGAGE Learning
2. Computer Network Security: Joseph Migga Kizza, Springer link
References:
1. Cyber Security: Nina Godbole, Sunit Belapure, Wiley India.
2. Network Security Hacks: Andrew Lockhart, O’Reilly, SPD.
42
3. Cryptography and Network Security: Forouzan Mukhopadhyay, Mc Graw Hill, 2nd Edition
4. Wireless Security-Models, Threats, and Solutions: Randall K.Nichols, Panos C.Lekkas, TMH
5. Computer Evidence: Collection & Preservation, Christopher L.T.Brown, Firewall Media
43
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – II Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(CNS06) INFORMATION SECURITY MANAGEMENT & STANDARDS
Course Objectives:
 Explain about management aspects of information security.
 Summarize security risk and associated assessment models like COBIT.
 Distinguish proactive security mechanisms, like firewalls, IDS/IPS etc and application audit methodology.
 Demonstrate various security standardizations, for example, ISO 270001 and legal issues involving
information security.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Identify security systems management
 Understanding organizational network security related issues and mitigating mechanisms
 Explain about firewall mechanism and security tools
 Ability to apply networking and security skills to industrial need
UNIT I:
Information Security Management in Organizations: Security Policy, Standards, Guidelines and Procedures,
Criteria for selection of a policy, Information Security Management System (ISMS), Organizational responsibility for
Information Security Management, Information Security Awareness Scenario in Indian Organizations, Building
Blocks of Information Security, CIA model,
UNIT II:
Risk Management: Overview of Risk Management, Information/Asset classification, Risk Identification mechanisms,
Risk Assessment models, Risk Control techniques, Quantitative and Qualitative Approaches, Introduction to
OCTAVE and COBIT framework.
UNIT III:
Finding Networking vulnerabilities, Firewalls – Processing modes, Categorization, Architectures, Selecting the right
firewall, managing the firewalls. Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems (IDS & IPS), Protecting Remote
Connections – Virtual Private Networks for security
UNIT IV:
Introduction to security audits, need for security audits, organizational roles, Auditor’s roles, Types of security audits,
Audit approaches, Technology based audits, Penetration testing, Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery
Planning.
UNIT V:
Overview of ISO 17799/ISO 27001 Standards, System Security Engineering Capability Maturity Model (SSE-CMM).
Legal, Ethical, and professional Issues in Information Security.
Text Books:
1. Information Systems Security, Nina Godbole, Wiley India, 2009
2. Principles and Practices of Information Security. Michael E. Whitman, Herbert J.Mattord, Cengage Learning,
References:
1. Microsoft Security Risk Management Guide
44
2. Risk Management guide for Information Technology Systems
3. Firewalls and Network Security, Micheal E.Whitman, et al. Cengage Learning, 2008
4. Information Security Management Handbook, Harold F. Tipton, CRC Press, 2012
5. Information Security Policies and Procedures, 2nd Edition, Thomas R. Peltier, Auerbach, 2004
45
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – II Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
Elective-III 3 0 3
(CNS21) ETHICAL HACKING
Course Objectives:
 Ability to quantitatively assess and measure threats to information assets
 Evaluate where information networks are most vulnerable
 Apply security plans designed for protecting data assets against attacks
 Perform penetration tests into secure networks for evaluation purposes
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Understand and experience in Ethical Hacking
 Learn to minimize the risks of attacks
 Know different techniques and methods applied by hackers
 Apply SQL injection and penetration test methods
UNIT I:
Introduction to Ethical Hacking, Ethics, and Legality: Ethical Hacking Terminology, Different Types of Hacking
Technologies, Different Phases Involved in Ethical Hacking and Stages of Ethical Hacking: Passive and Active
Reconnaissance, Scanning, Gaining Access, Maintaining Access, Covering Tracks, Hacktivism, Types of Hacker
Classes, Skills Required to Become an Ethical Hacker, Vulnerability Research, Ways to Conduct Ethical
Hacking, Creating a Security Evaluation Plan ,Types of Ethical Hacks.
Footprinting and Social Engineering: Footprinting, Information Gathering Methodology, DNS Enumeration Who
is and ARIN Lookups, Trace route, Social Engineering, Common Types Of Attacks, Insider Attacks, Identity
Theft, Phishing Attacks, Online Scams, URL Obfuscation, Social-Engineering Countermeasures.
UNIT II:
Scanning and Enumeration: Scanning, types of Scanning , CEH Scanning Methodology ,Ping Sweep
Techniques, Nmap Command Switches, SYN, Stealth, XMAS, NULL, IDLE, and FIN Scans, Banner Grabbing
and OS Fingerprinting Techniques, Proxy Servers, HTTP Tunnelling Techniques, IP Spoofing Techniques,
Enumeration, Null Sessions, SNMP Enumeration, Steps Involved in Performing Enumeration
System Hacking: Understanding Password-Cracking Techniques, Password-Cracking Countermeasures,
Understanding Different Types of Passwords Passive Online Attacks, Active Online Attacks, Offline Attacks
Non-electronic Attacks, Understanding Key loggers and Other Spyware Technologies Understand Escalating
Privileges, Executing Applications, Buffer Overflows, Understanding Rootkits Planting, Understanding How to
Hide Files, NTFS File Streaming NTFS Stream Countermeasures, Understanding Steganography Technologies,
Understanding How to Cover Your Tracks and Erase Evidence, Disabling Auditing, Clearing the Event Log
UNIT III:
Trojans, Backdoors, Viruses, and Worms: Trojans and Backdoors, Overt and Covert Channels, Types of
Trojans, Reverse- Connecting Trojans, Netcat Trojan ,Indications of a Trojan Attack, Trojan Construction Kit and
Trojan Makers , Countermeasure Techniques in Preventing Trojans, Difference between a Virus and a Worm,
Types of Viruses, Understand Antivirus Evasion Techniques, Understand Virus Detection Methods
Session Hijacking: Denial of Service, Session Hijacking, Spoofing vs. Hijacking, Types of Session Hijacking,
Sequence Prediction, Steps in Performing Session Hijacking, Prevention of Session Hijacking
UNIT IV:
Hacking Web Servers, Web Application Vulnerabilities, and Web-Based Password Cracking Techniques:
Hacking Web Servers, Types of Web Server Vulnerabilities, Attacks against Web Servers, Web Server
46
Hardening Methods Web Application Vulnerabilities, Objectives of Web Application Hacking, Anatomy of
an Attack, Web Application Threats, Google Hacking, Web Application Countermeasures. Web-Based
Password Cracking Techniques, Authentication Types, Password Cracker, Password Attacks:
Classification Password- Cracking Countermeasures
SQL Injection and Buffer Overflows: SQL Injection, Steps to Conduct SQL Injection, SQL Server
Vulnerabilities, SQL Injection Countermeasures Buffer Overflows, Types of Buffer Overflows and Methods of
Detection, Stack-Based Buffer Overflows, Buffer Overflow Mutation Techniques
UNIT V:
Linux Hacking: Linux Basics, Compile a Linux Kernel, GCC Compilation Commands, Install Linux Kernel
Modules, Linux Hardening Methods
Penetration Testing Methodologies: Security Assessments, Penetration Testing Methodologies, Penetration
Testing Steps, Pen-Test Legal Framework, Automated Penetration Testing Tools, Pen-Test Deliverables.
Text Books:
1. CEH official Certified Ethical Hacking Review Guide, Wiley India Edition
2. Certified Ethical Hacker: Michael Gregg, Pearson Education
3. Certified Ethical Hacker: Matt Walker, TMH.
References:
1. Computer Security, concepts, issues and implementation: Alfred Basta Wolf Halton, Cengage Learning
2. Hacking Exponsed Web 2.0, by Rich Annings, Himanshu Dwivedi, Zane Lackey, Tata McGraw hill Edition
3. Ethical Hacking & Network Defense, Michael T. Simpson, Cengage Learning
4. Hacking Exposed Windows, Joel Scambray, cissp, Stuart Mcclure, Cissp, Third Edition, Tata McGraw
hill edition
47
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – II Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
Elective-III 3 0 3
(CNS22) COMPUTER FORENSICS AND CYBER SECURITY
Course Objectives:
 Understand the Fundamentals of Computer Forensics.
 Examine various forensic tools to process the crime and incident scenes.
 Learn how to collect and preserve digital evidence that resides on computer storage devices.
 Analyse how cyber-crimes takes place and how these can be handled by LAW.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Apply appropriate skills and knowledge in solving computer forensics problems.
 Demonstrate various Computer forensic tools and their importance.
 Design and formulate new methods for collecting and preserving evidences.
 Implement the knowledge gained to investigate cybercrimes..
UNIT I:
Computer Forensics Fundamentals: What is Computer Forensics? Use of Computer Forensics in Law
Enforcement, Computer Forensics in Law Enforcement, Computer Forensics Assistance to Human
Resources/Employment Proceedings, Computer Forensics Services, Benefits of professional Forensics
Methodology, Steps taken by computer Forensics Specialists.
Types of Computer Forensics Technology: Types of Military Computer Forensics Technology, Types of Law
Enforcement - Computer Forensic Technology - Types of Business Computer Forensics Technology.
UNIT II:
Processing Crime and Incident Scenes: Identifying digital evidence, collecting evidence in private-sector incident
scenes, processing law enforcement crime scenes, preparing for a search, securing a computer incident or crime
scene, seizing digital evidence at the scene, storing digital evidence, obtaining a digital hash, reviewing a case.
Current Computer Forensic Tools: evaluating computer forensic tool needs, computer forensics software tools,
computer forensics hardware tools, validating and testing forensics software.
UNIT III:
Evidence Collection and Data Seizure: Why Collection Evidence? Collection Options – Obstacles – Types of
Evidence – The Rules of Evidence- Volatile Evidence- General Procedure – Collection and Archiving – Methods of
Collection – Artifacts – Collection Steps – Controlling Contamination: The chain of Custody.
Duplication and Preservation of Digital Evidence: Preserving the Digital Crime Scene – Computer Evidence
Processing Steps – Legal Aspects of Collecting Preserving Computer Forensics Evidence.
Computer Image Verification and Authentication: Special Needs of Evidential Authentication – Practical
Consideration – Practical Implementation.
UNIT IV:
Introduction to Cyber Crime and Law: Cyber Crimes, Types of Cybercrime, Hacking, Attack vectors, Cyberspace
and Criminal Behavior, Clarification of Terms, Traditional Problems Associated with Computer Crime, Introduction to
Incident Response, Digital Forensics, Computer Language, Network Language, Realms of the Cyber world, A Brief
History of the Internet, Recognizing and Defining Computer Crime, Contemporary Crimes, Computers as Targets,
Contaminants and Destruction of Data, Indian IT ACT 2000.
48
UNITV:
Introduction to Cyber Crime Investigation: Firewalls and Packet Filters, password Cracking, Key loggers and
Spyware, Virus and Warms, Trojan and backdoors, Steganography, DOS and DDOS attack, SQL injection, Buffer
Overflow, Attack on wireless Networks.
Text Books:
1. Computer forensics, computer crime investigation by John R.Vacca, Firewall Media, New Delhi.
2. Computer forensics and investigations by Nelson, Phillips Enfinger Steuart, CENGAGE Learning.
3. Anti-Hacker Tool Kit (Indian Edition) by Mike Shema, Publication Mc Graw Hill.
4. Cyber Security Understanding Cyber Crimes, Computer Forensics and Legal Perspectives by Nina Godbole and
Sunit Belpure, Publication Wiley.
References:
1. Real Digital Forensics by Keith J.Jones, Rechard Bejtlich, Curtis W.Rose, Addison Wesley Pearson Education.
2. Forensic compiling, A Tractitioneris Guide By Tony Sammes and Brain Jenkinson, Springer International Edition.
3. Computer Evidence Collection & Presentation by Christopher L.T.Brown, Firewall Media.
4. Software forensics Collecting Evidence from the scene of a digital crime by Robert M.Slade, TMH 2005.
5. William Stallings and Lawrie Brown, “Computer Security: Principles and Practice”, Prentice Hall, 2008.
49
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – II Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
Elective-III 3 0 3
(CNS23) ADHOC AND SENSOR NETWORKS
Course Objectives:
 Classify mobile ad hoc networks, design and implementation issues, and available solutions.
 Demonstrate routing mechanisms and the three classes of approaches: proactive, on-demand, and hybrid.
 Distinguish clustering mechanisms and the different schemes that have been employed, e.g., hierarchical,
flat, and leaderless.
 Summarize on sensor networks and their characteristics.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Memorize the concept of ad-hoc and sensor networks, their applications and typical node and network
architectures.
 Explain protocol design issues (especially energy-efficiency) and protocol designs for wireless sensor
networks
 Critique protocol designs in terms of their energy-efficiency
 Evaluate measurements of protocol performance in wireless sensor networks.
UNIT I:
Introduction: Fundamentals of Wireless Communication Technology. The Electromagnetic Spectrum. Radio
Propagation Mechanisms. Characteristics of the Wireless Channel. Modulation Techniques. Multiple Access
Techniques. Voice Coding. Error Control. Computer Networks. Computer Network Software. Computer Network
Architecture. IEEE 802 Networking Standard.
Wireless LANS and PANS, Wireless WANS AND MANS
UNIT II:
Wireless Internet, Adhoc Wireless Networks, MAC Protocols in Adhoc Wireless Networks
Quality of Service: Real-time traffic support – Issues and challenges in providing QoS – Classification of QoS
Solutions – MAC layer classifications – QoS Aware Routing Protocols – Ticket based and Predictive location based
Qos Routing Protocols
UNIT III:
Energy Management Adhoc Networks: Need for Energy Management – Classification of Energy Management
Schemes – Battery Management and Transmission Power Management Schemes – Network Layer and Data Link
Layer Solutions – System power Management schemes.
UNIT IV:
Mesh Networks: Necessity for Mesh Networks – MAC enhancements – IEEE 802.11s Architecture – Opportunistic
Routing – Self Configuration and Auto Configuration - Capacity Models – Fairness – Heterogeneous Mesh Networks
– Vehicular Mesh Networks.
UNIT V:
Sensor Networks : Introduction – Sensor Network architecture – Data Dissemination – Data Gathering – MAC
Protocols for sensor Networks – Location discovery – Quality of Sensor Networks – Evolving Standards – Other
Issues – Recent trends in Infrastructure less Networks,
Recent Advances in Wireless Networks
50
Text Books:
1. C. Siva Ram Murthy and B.S.Manoj, “Ad hoc Wireless Networks – Architectures and Protocols’, Pearson
Education, 2004
2. Ad Hoc And Sensor Networks - Theory and Applications, Dharma Prakash Agrawal, Carlos De Morais Cordeiro,
Cambridge University Press (2010)
References:
1. Mobile Ad Hoc Networks: Current Status and Future Trends, Jonathan Loo (Editor), Jaime Lloret Mauri (Editor),
Jesús Hamilton Ortiz (Editor), CRC Press-2011
2. Ad Hoc and Sensor Networks, Cordeiro, World Scientific Publishing Company, 2013
3. Wireless Ad hoc and Sensor Networks: Protocols, Performance, and Control, Jagannathan Sarangapani, Taylor
& Francis/bsp Books (2007)
4. Wireless Ad Hoc and Sensor Networks, Houda Labiod, ISTE (10 July 2007)
5. Security and Privacy in Ad-Hoc and Sensor Networks, Refik Molva (Editor), Gene Tsudik (Editor), Dirk
Westhoff (Editor), Springer (9 April 2008)
51
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – II Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
Elective - IV 3 0 3
(CNS24) NETWORK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Course Objectives:
 Develop skills like Plan, install, configure, administer and manage a network
 Demonstrate network management architectures and protocols.
 Illustrate students on how to install, maintain, and manage Local Area Networks and internetworks.
 Describe the Automation of network management operations and making use of readily available network
management systems.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Explain Directory Services and Remote Access
 Appraise the use of Virtual Private Network and explain Network protocols and services
 Install and configure Network server operating system
 Configure various services on Windows server platform Troubleshoot Network
UNIT I:
Directory Services: Define Directory Service, Definition of Novelle Directory, Windows Domain, MS Active Directory,
X500 Directory Access Protocol, Lightweight Directory Access Proto col, Forests, Trees, Roots and Leaves.
Active Directory Architecture: Object Types, Object Naming, Canonical Names, LDAP Notation, Globally unique
identifiers, User Principle Names, Domain, Trees & Forests.
Remote Network Access: Need of Remote Network Access, PSTN, ISDN, DSL, CATV
Virtual Private Network: VPN Protocols, Types of VPN, VPN Clients, SSL VPNs
UNIT II:
Dynamic Host Control Protocol (DHCP): DHCP Origins, Reverse Address Resolution Protocol (RARP), The
Bootstrap Protocol (BOOTP), DHCP Objectives, IP Address assignments, DHCP Architecture
Introduction to Domain Name Systems (DNS): DNS Objectives, Domain Naming, Top Level Domains, Second
Level Domains, Sub -domains, DNS Functions, Resource Records, DNS Name Resolution, Resolves, DNS
Requests, Root Name Servers, Resolving a Domain Name, DNS Name Registration
Network Printing Concepts: Locally Connected Print Devices, Setting up local Print Devices, Shared Print Devices,
Sharing Locally Attached Print Devices, Describe Windows Network Printing and Add print Wizard
UNIT III:
Designing Network: Accessing Network Needs, Applications, Users, Network Services, Security and Safety, Growth
and Capacity Planning, Meeting Network Needs – Choosing Network Type, Choosing Network Structure, Choosing
Servers
Installing and Configuring Windows Server: Preparing for Installation, Creating windows server boot disk,
Installing windows server, Configuring server/ client.
Setting Windows Server: Creating Domain controller, Adding the DHCP and WINS roles, Adding file server and
print server, Adding Web based Administration
UNIT IV:
Working With User Accounts -Adding a User, Modifying User Account, Deleting or Disabling a User Account.
Working with Windows Security Groups –Creating Group, Maintaining Group Membership. Working with Shares –
Understanding Share Security, Cresting Shares, Mapping Drives Administering Printer Shares –Setting up Network
Printer Working with Windows Backup – Using Windows Servers Backup Software
52
UNIT V:
Understanding the Problem –Troubleshooting, Segmenting the Problem, and Isolating the Problem, Setting Priorities.
Troubleshooting Tools –Hardware Tools, Software Tools, Monitoring and Troubleshooting Tools Internal Security –
Account Security, File and Directory permissions, Practices and user education
Text Books:
1. The Complete Reference Networking Craig Zacker Tata McGrawHill
2. The Real World Network Troubleshooting Manual Alan Sugano Firewall Media
References:
1. Introduction to Networking Bruce Hallberg Tata McGrawHill
2. Networking + Certification Training Kit Richard A. McMahon, Sir Microsoft Press
3. MCSE Training Kit Networking Essential Plus Microsoft Press
4. Networking a Beginner’s Guide Bruce Hallberg Tata McGrawHill
53
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – II Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
Elective - IV 3 0 3
(CNS25) SECURE SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
Course Objectives:
 Understand scientific concepts of Software and Hardware Reliability approach
 Apply Software Reliability strategies in Software Development
 Emphasize Test Execution - Planning and allocating test time for the current release
 Application of Model based security engineering with UML
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Demonstrate knowledge through experience with SRE.
 Analyse the ability to author a software testing procedure
 Estimate failure intensity to guide test - Certifying reliability.
 Develop Model based security engineering with UML
UNIT I:
Problem, Process, and Product - Problems of software practitioners – approach through software reliability
engineering- experience with SRE – SRE process – defining the product – Testing acquired software – reliability
concepts- software and hardware reliability. Implementing Operational Profiles - Developing, identifying, crating,
reviewing the operation – concurrence rate – occurrence probabilities- applying operation profiles
UNIT II:
Engineering “Just Right” Reliability - Defining “failure” for the product - Choosing a common measure for all
associated systems. - Setting system failure intensity objectives -Determining user needs for reliability and
availability, overall reliability and availability objectives, common failure intensity objective., developed software
failure intensity objectives. - Engineering software reliability strategies. Preparing for Test - Preparing test cases. -
Planning number of new test cases for current release. -Allocating new test cases. - Distributing new test cases
among new operations - Detailing test cases. - Preparing test procedures
UNIT III:
Executing Test - Planning and allocating test time for the current release. - Invoking test-identifying identifying
failures - Analyzing test output for deviations. – Determining which deviations are failures. Establishing when failures
occurred. Guiding Test - Tracking reliability growth - Estimating failure intensity. - Using failure intensity patterns to
guide test - Certifying reliability. Deploying SRE - Core material - Persuading your boss, your coworkers, and
stakeholders. - Executing the deployment - Using a consultant.
UNIT IV:
Using UML for Security - UM L diagrams for security requirement -security business process-physical security -
security critical interaction - security state. Analyzing Model - Notation - formal semantics - security analysis -
important security opportunities. Model based security engineering with UML - UML sec profile- Design principles for
secure systems - Applying security patterns
UNIT V:
Applications - Secure channel - Developing Secure Java program- more case studies. Tool support for UML Sec -
Extending UML CASE TOOLS with analysis tools - Automated tools for UML SEC. Formal Foundations - UML
machines - Rely guarantee specifications- reasoning about security properties.
54
Text Books:
1. Security Engineering: Ross Anderson
2. Software Security Engineering: A Guide for Project Managers
References:
1. John Musa D, “Software Reliability Engineering”, 2nd Edition, Tata McGraw-Hill, 2005 (Units I, II and III)
2. Jan Jürjens, “Secure Systems Development with UML”, Springer; 2004 (Unit IV and V)
3. Software Security Engineering: A Guide for Project Managers 1st Edition by Julia H Allen, Sean Barnum, Robert
J. Ellison, Gary McGraw, Nancy R. Mead
55
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – II Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
Elective - IV 3 0 3
(CNS26) SOFTWARE RELIABILITY AND METRICS
Course Objectives:
 Students will acquire methods to evaluate software artefacts with a rigorous and modern approach.
 Manage software development projects to produce high quality software.
 Experience how, where and when improving real software products and processes with the application of
basic mathematical concepts.
 Analyze software Reliability models.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Understand the objectives and general principles of measurement
 Assess different software products with a critical decision process based on a rigorous mathematical and
deductive approach.
 Classify how to measure the software product.
 Demonstrate knowledge through experience with software reliability and metrics
UNIT I:
Introduction to Software Reliability: Basic Concepts – Failure and Faults – Environment – Availability –Modeling –
uses.
UNIT II:
Software Reliability Modeling: Concepts – General Model Characteristic – Historical Development of models –
Model Classification scheme – Markova models – General concepts – General Poisson Type Models – Binomial
Type Models – Poisson Type models – Fault reduction factor for Poisson Type models.
UNIT III:
Comparison of Software Reliability Models: Comparison Criteria – Failure Data – Comparison of Predictive
Validity of Model Groups – Recommended Models – Comparison of Time Domains – Calendar Time Modeling –
Limiting Resource Concept – Resource Usage model – Resource Utilization – Calendar Time Estimation and
confidence Intervals.
UNIT IV:
Fundamentals of Measurement: Measurements in Software Engineering – Scope of Software metrics –
Measurements theory – Goal based Framework – Software Measurement Validation.
UNIT V:
Product Metrics: Measurement of Internet Product Attributes – Size and Structure – External Product Attributes –
Measurement of Quality –Reliability Growth Model – Model Evaluation
Text Books:
1. Software Metrics: A Rigorous and Practical Approach, Third Edition By Norman Fenton, James Bieman
2. John D. Musa, Anthony Iannino, Kazuhira Okumoto, “Software Reliability – Measurement,Prediction, Application,
Series in Software Engineering and Technology”, McGraw Hill, 1987.
References:
1. John D. Musa, “Software Reliability Engineering”, Tata McGraw Hill, 1999.
56
2. Norman E . Fenton, Shari Lawrence Pfleeger, "Software metrics", Second Edition, International student Edition,
2003.
3. Metrics and Models in Software Quality Engineering 2nd Edition, Stephen H. Kan,
4. Applied Software Measurement: Assuring Productivity and Quality, C. Jones, McGraw-Hill, 1996.
57
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – II Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
Open Elective-II 3 0 3
(SWE41) ADVANCED UNIX PROGRAMMING
Course Objectives:
 Apply the concepts of files and Directories to manage the Linux Environment.
 Provide knowledge in working with the core operating systems Concept, Signals in Linux Environment
 Design the Inter process communication by using the IPC techniques
 Build Client-Server Environment using sockets.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Analyse the files and directories in Linux environment.
 Implement system programs to control the processes using signals.
 Develop programs to provide Inter process communication to avoid classical IPC problems.
 Design a client-server application using sockets and RMI
UNIT I:
Linux Utilities- File handling utilities, Security by file permissions, Process utilities, Disk utilities, Networking utilities,
Filters, Text processing utilities and Backup utilities.
Bourne again shell(bash) - Introduction, pipes and redirection, here documents, running a shell script, the shell as a
programming language, shell meta characters, file name substitution, shell variables, command substitution, shell
commands, the environment, quoting, test command, control structures, arithmetic in shell, shell script examples.
Review of C programming concepts-arrays, strings (library functions), pointers, function pointers, structures,
unions, libraries in C.
UNIT II:
Files- File Concept, File types File System Structure, I nodes, File Attributes, file I/O in C using system calls, kernel
support for files, file status information-stat family, file and record locking-lockf and fcntl functions, file permissions-
chmod, fchmod, file ownership-chown, lchown , fchown, links-soft links and hard links – symlink, link, unlink.
File and Directory management – Directory contents, Scanning Directories- Directory file APIs. Process- Process
concept, Kernel support for process, process attributes, process control – process creation, replacing a process
image, waiting for a process, process termination, zombie process, orphan process.
UNIT III:
Signals: Introduction to signals, Signal generation and handling, Kernel support for signals, Signal function,
unreliable signals, reliable signals, kill, raise , alarm, pause, abort, sleep functions. Interprocess Communication -
Introduction to IPC mechanisms, Pipes- creation, IPC between related processes using unnamed pipes, FIFOs-
creation, IPC between unrelated processes using FIFOs(Named pipes), differences between unnamed and named
pipes, popen and pclose library functions, Introduction to message queues, semaphores and shared memory.
Message Queues: Kernel support for messages, UNIX system V APIs for messages, client/server example.
Semaphores:Kernel support for semaphores, UNIX system V APIs for semaphores.
UNIT IV:
Shared Memory: Kernel support for shared memory, UNIX system V APIs for shared memory, client/server
example.
Network IPC: Introduction to Unix Sockets, IPC over a network, Client-Server model, Address formats(Unix domain
and Internet domain), Socket system calls for Connection Oriented - Communication, Socket system calls for
Connectionless-Communication, Example-Client/Server Programs- Single Server-Client connection, Multiple
simultaneous clients, Socket options – setsockopt, getsockopt, fcntl.
58
UNIT V:
Network Programming in Java: Network basics, TCP sockets, UDP sockets (datagram sockets), Server programs
that can handle one connection at a time and multiple connections (using multithreaded server), Remote Method
Invocation (Java RMI)-Basic RMI Process, Implementation details-Client-Server Application.
Text Books:
1. Unix System Programming using C++, T.Chan, PHI.(Units II,III,IV)
2. Unix Network Programming ,W.R. Stevens, PHI.(Units II,III,IV)
3. Unix Concepts and Applications, 4th Edition, Sumitabha Das, TMH.(Unit I)
4. An Introduction to Network Programming with Java, Jan Graba, Springer, rp 2010.(Unit V)
References:
1. Java Network Programming,3rd edition, E.R. Harold, SPD, O’Reilly.(Unit V)
2. Linux System Programming, Robert Love, O’Reilly, SPD.
3. Advanced Programming in the UNIX environment, 2nd Edition, W.R.Stevens, Pearson Education.
4. UNIX for programmers and users, 3rd Edition, Graham Glass, King Ables, Pearson Education.
5. Beginning Linux Programming, 4th Edition, N.Matthew, R.Stones, Wrox, Wiley India Edition.
6. Unix Network Programming The Sockets Networking API, Vol.-I,W.R.Stevens, Bill Fenner, A.M.Rudoff,
Pearson Education.
7. Unix Internals, U.Vahalia, Pearson Education.
8. Unix shell Programming, S.G.Kochan and P.Wood, 3rd edition, Pearson Education.
9. C Programming Language, Kernighan and Ritchie, PHI
59
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – II Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
Open Elective-II 3 0 3
(CNS41) ANDROID APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT
Course Objectives:
 Describe the essentials of mobile apps development.
 Examine and illustrate J2ME, Android and SQLite databases in relevance to Mobile applications
 Understand how Android applications work, manifest, Intents, and using external resources
 Learn to develop applications for current and emerging mobile computing devices
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Describe the Mobility landscape
 Identify Mobile apps development aspects
 Design and develop mobile apps, using Android as development platform, with key focus on user
experience design, native data handling and background tasks and notifications.
 Summarize and Compose Testing, Signing, Packaging and Distribution of mobile apps
UNIT I:
Introduction to Mobile: A brief history of Mobile, The Mobile Ecosystem, Why Mobile?, Types of Mobile
Applications, Mobile Information Architecture, Mobile Design, Mobile 2.0, Mobile Web development, Small
Computing Device Requirements.
UNIT II:
Introduction to Android: History of Mobile Software Development, The Open Handset Alliance, The Android
Platform, Android SDK, Eclipse Installation, Android Installation, Building a Sample Android application
UNIT III:
Android Application Design Essentials: Anatomy of an Android applications, Android terminologies, Application
Context, Activities, Services, Intents, Receiving and Broadcasting Intents, Android Manifest File and its common
settings, Using Intent Filter, Permissions, Managing Application resources in a hierarchy, Working with different
types of resources
UNIT IV:
Android User Interface Design Essentials: User Interface Screen elements, Designing User Interfaces with
Layouts, Drawing and Working with Animation
UNITV:
Using Common Android APIs: Using Android Data and Storage APIs, Managing data using SQLite, Sharing Data
between Applications with Content Providers, Using Android Networking APIs, Using Android Web APIs, Using
Android Telephony APIs, Deploying Android Application to the World
Text Books:
1. J2ME: The Complete Reference, James Keogh, Tata McGrawHill
2. Lauren Darcey and Shane Conder, “Android Wireless Application Development”, Pearson Education, 2nd ed.
(2011)
References:
1. Reto Meier, “Professional Android 2 Application Development”, Wiley India Pvt Ltd
2. Mark L Murphy, “Beginning Android”, Wiley India Pvt Ltd
60
3. Sayed Y Hashimi and Satya Komatineni, “Pro Android”, Wiley India Pvt Ltd
4. devloper.android.com (web)
5. Android Application Development All in one for Dummies by Barry Burd, Edition: I
6. Teach Yourself Android Application Development In 24 Hours, Edition:I, Publication: SAMS
61
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – II Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
Open Elective-II 3 0 3
(SWE42) SOFT SKILLS
Course Objectives:
 Develop inter personal skills and be an effective goal oriented team player.
 Produce professionals with idealistic, practical and moral values.
 Emphasize problem solving skills and communication.
 Reconstruct attitude and understand its influence on behaviour.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Express what Soft Skills is
 Discover the significance of soft skills in the working environment
 Employ leadership skills and teamwork skills
 Plan and schedule the time and stress management
UNIT I:
Self Analysis: SWOT Analysis, Who am I, Attributes, Importance of Self Confidence, Self Esteem
UNIT II:
Attitude: Factors influencing Attitude, Challenges and lessons from Attitude
Change Management: Exploring Challenges, Risking Comfort Zone, Managing Change
UNIT III:
Motivation: Factors of motivation, self talk, Intrinsic & Extrinsic Motivators.
Goal Setting: Wish List, SMART Goals, Blue print for success, Short Term, Long Term, Life Time Goals
UNIT IV:
Time Management: Value of time, Diagnosing Time Management, Weekly Planner To do list, Prioritizing work.
Stress Management: Causes of Stress and its impact, how to manage & distress, Understanding the Circle of
control, Stress Busters.
UNITV:
Creativity: Out of box thinking, Lateral Thinking Presentation
Leadership: Skills for a good Leader, Assessment of Leadership Skills
Team Work: Necessity of Team Work Personally, Socially and Educationally
Text Books:
1. Nitin Bhatnagar, Mamata Bhatnagar, “Effective Communication and Soft Skills”, Pearson Publications.
2. Barun K. Mithra “Personality Development and Soft Skills”, Oxford Publications.
References:
1. INSIGHT, 2012, Career Development Centre, SRM Publications.
2. Covey Sean, “Seven Habits of Highly Effective Teens”, New York, Fireside Publishers, 1998.
3. Carnegie Dale, “How to win Friends and Influence People”, New York: Simon & Schuster, 1998.
4. Thomas A Harris, “I am ok, You are ok”, New York-Harper and Row, 1972.
5. Daniel Coleman, “Emotional Intelligence”, Bantam Book, 2006.
62
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, HYDERABAD
I – II Sem. M.Tech (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(CNS52) WIRELESS NETWORKS SIMULATION LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
 Understand fundamentals of wireless networks
 Emphasizing the details of simulation tools for network research
 Experiment and design various wireless scenarios for network research
 Analyse different routing algorithms for MANETs.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
 Experiment different scenarios for wired and wireless networks on simulator
 Illustrate TCP,UDP connection between nodes in a network
 Design proactive routing algorithms in MANETs.
 Develop reactive routing algorithms in MANETs.
1. Write a script to create fixed wireless nodes with color and initial position
2. Write a script to create wireless nodes and change the color of nodes randomly
3. Write a script to create wireless nodes with mobility.
4. Write a script to TCP communication between wireless nodes
5. Write a script for dynamic 2 node wireless scenario with TCP connection. Check the Packets are exchanged
between the nodes as they come within hearing range and drop when they are moving away.
6.Write a script to connection ‐over a 3 node network over an area of size (500m*400m) The nodes (n0, n1, n2)
position respectively At initially (5, 5) (490, 285) (150, 240) At time 10sec node1 start moving towards point (250,
250) at speed of 3m/s At time 15sec node0 start moving towards point (480, 300) at speed of 5m/s At time 20sec
node1 start moving towards point (480, 3000) at speed of 5m/s Node2 is constant Take total simulation time
150sec, at time 10s a TCP connection initiated between node0 and node1
a) Use DSDV and IEEE802.11 MAC
b) Use AODV and IEEE802.11 MAC
7. A simple topology to illustrate the hidden node problem using the IEEE802.11a setting (Take 4 nodes as n0 to
n1: CBR traffic at rate 700kb, n2 to n3: CBR traffic at rate3Mb, n1 is in the carrier sense range of n2, but n0 is not).
8. Write a script to create wireless nodes with change destination and color of nodes randomly at particular time
interval.
9. For a wireless consisting of three mobile nodes (n0 n2), write a script and make an ad hoc simulation to output
in trace file. Use the routing protocol as Ad hoc on demand vector (AODV).
10. For a wireless network consisting of three mobile n‐odes (n0 n2), write a script and m‐ake an ad hoc simulation
to analyze the output in the trace file. Use t‐he routing protocol as a destination sequence distance vector (DSDV).
11. For a wireless network consisting of three mobile nodes (n0‐n2), write a script and make an ad‐hoc simulation
to analyze the output in the trace file. Use the routing protocol as dynamic source routing (DSR).
12. Write a script for multi hop TCP communication in Wireles‐s network with the use of MANET r‐outing protocol
AODV, DSDV, DSR.
Suggested Simulator tools: NS-2/NS-3, OPNET, Packet Tracer, Boson, Wireshark.
Text Books:
1. Jochen Schiller, “Mobile Communications”, Pearson Education, Second Edition, 2008.
2. Martyn Mallick, “Mobile and Wireless Design Essentials”, Wiley, 2008.
3. Asoke K Talukder, et al, “Mobile Computing”, Tata McGraw Hill, 2008.
63
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
L T/P/D C
I -II Sem. M.Tech. (Computer Networks & Information Security)
0 0 4
(CNS62) MINI PROJECT – II
A mini project work shall be carried out on any topic of Computer Networks and Information Security and a seminar
should be given on the same along with a brief report.
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
L T/P/D C
II– I Sem. M.Tech. (Computer Networks & Information Security)
0 0 4
(CNS63) COMPREHENSIVE VIVA-VOCE
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II– I Sem. M.Tech. (Computer Networks & Information Security)
L T/P/D C
0 0 8
(CNS71) INTERNSHIP / DISSERTATION PHASE- I
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
II– II Sem. M.Tech. (Computer Networks & Information Security) L T/P/D C
0 0 18
(CNS72) DISSERTATION PHASE - II
64
