SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/R15/R15ME.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
COURSE STRUCTURE AND
DETAILED SYLLABUS
Mechan ical Engin eering
B.TECH. FOUR YEAR DEGREE COURSE
(Applicable for the batches admitted from 2015-2016)
VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
An Autonomous Institute, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
NBA Accreditation for CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, EIE, IT B.Tech. Programmes
Approved by AICTE, New Delhi, Affiliated to JNTUH
Recognized as “College with Potential for Excellence” by UGC
Vignana Jyothi Nagar, Pragathi Nagar, Nizampet (S.O), Hyderabad – 500 090, TS, India.
Telephone No: 040-2304 2758/59/60, Fax: 040-23042761
E-mail: postbox@vnrvjiet.ac.in, Website: www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
1
Vision and Mission of the Institute
VISION
To be a World Class University providing value-based education, conducting
interdisciplinary research in cutting edge technologies leading to sustainable socio-economic
development of the nation.
MISSION
➢ To produce technically competent and socially responsible engineers, managers and
entrepreneurs, who will be future ready.
➢ To involve students and faculty in innovative research projects linked with industry,
academic and research institutions in India and abroad.
➢ To use modern pedagogy for improving the teaching-learning process.
Vision and Mission of the Department
VISION
To develop into a Centre of Excellence in Education and Research in the field of Mechanical
Engineering, consistent with the contemporary and future needs of the country
MISSION
➢ To impart high quality education by using modern pedagogical tools so as to make the
students technically competent in their chosen fields and socially responsible.
➢ To inculcate quality research by developing linkages with Industry and R & D
organizations in India & abroad
2
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS FOR B.TECH. PROGRAMME
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2015-2016)
1. Programmes of study
• The following four year B.Tech. degree programmes of study are offered at VNR
VJIET from the academic year 2017-2018.
Branch
Branch
Code
01 Civil Engineering
02 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
03 Mechanical Engineering
04 Electronics and Communication Engineering
05 Computer Science and Engineering
10 Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
12 Information Technology
24 Automobile Engineering
• ‘ENGLISH’ language is used as the medium of instruction in all the above
programmes.
1.1 Eligibility Criteria for Admission
The eligibility criteria for admission into engineering programmes shall be as mentioned
below:
• The candidate shall be an Indian National / NRI
• The candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st December of the
academic year for which the admissions are being conducted
• The candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or equivalent
as on the date of admission recognized by BIE, Telangana State
3
1.1.1 Seats in each programme in the Institution are classified into Category A and
Category B as per the G.Os.
Category – A Seats:
These seats shall be filled through counseling as per the rank in the Common
Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by the State Government and as per other
admission criteria laid down in the G.Os.
Category - B Seats:
These seats shall be filled by the Institute as per the G.Os issued by the State
Government from time to time.
1.1.2 Category: Lateral Entry
The candidate shall be admitted into the Third Semester, (2nd year, 1st semester)
based on the rank secured by the candidate in Engineering Common Entrance Test
(ECET (FDH)) by the Convener, ECET.
2. Distribution and Weights of Marks
i. The performance of a student in each semester shall be evaluated subject –wise
with a maximum of 100 marks for theory and 100 marks for practical subjects.
In addition, an Industry oriented mini-project, seminar, comprehensive viva-voce
and project work shall be evaluated for 100, 100, 100 and 200 marks respectively.
ii. For theory subjects, the distribution shall be 40 marks for Mid-term Evaluation
and 60 marks for the Semester End Examination.
Mid-Term Evaluation (40 M):
Mid-term evaluation consists of mid-term examination (30 M) and assignment/test
(10 M).
➢ Mid-term examination (30 M):
• For theory subjects, two mid examinations shall be conducted in each
semester as per the academic calendar. Each mid examination shall be
evaluated for 30 marks.
PART-A 3 X 2M = 6 M (one question from each UNIT)
PART-B 3 X 8 M = 24 M (three internal choice questions one from each UNIT
shall be given, the student has to answer one question from each UNIT)
• 80 % weightage for better mid-term examination and 20% weightage for the
other mid examination shall be used and calculated as the final mid-term
examination marks for each subject.
➢ Assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project (10 M):
• Two assignment/objective exam/ case study/course project shall be given to
the students covering the syllabus of First Mid and Second Mid Examinations
respectively and evaluated for 10 marks each.
4
• The first assignment shall be submitted before first mid examination and
second assignment shall be submitted before second mid examination.
• The average of 2 assignments shall be taken as final assignment marks.
iii. For practical subjects, there shall be a continuous evaluation during the
semester for 40 marks and 60 marks for semester end examination. Out of the
40 marks, day-to-day work in the laboratory shall be evaluated for 10 marks,
and 15 marks for practical examination and 15 marks for laboratory record.
NOTE: 1. Any student who shall remain absent for any assignment/Mid-term
examination for any reason what so ever, shall be deemed to have secured
‘zero’ marks in the test/examination and no makeup test/examination shall be
conducted.
2. Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
iv. For the subjects having design and / or drawing, (such as Engineering Graphics,
Geometrical Drawing, Machine Drawing, Production Drawing Practice, and
Estimation etc.,) the distribution shall be 40 marks for internal evaluation (20
marks for day-to-day work and 20 marks for Mid examination (the average of
the two examinations shall be taken into account) and 60 marks for semester end
examination.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
v. There shall be an industry-oriented mini-project, in collaboration with an industry
of their specialization, to be taken up during the summer vacation after III year II
semester examination. The industry oriented mini project shall be evaluated
during the IV year I semester. The industry oriented mini project shall be
submitted in report form and presented before a committee, which shall evaluate it
for 100 marks. The committee shall consist of Head of the Department, the
supervisor of mini project and a senior faculty member of the department. There
shall be no mid-term assessment for industry oriented mini project. However,
attending the shadow engineering program or any such other programme, in
lieu thereof, is a pre-requisite for evaluating industry-oriented mini project.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
vi. There shall be a seminar presentation in IV year II semester. For the seminar,
the student shall collect the information on a specialized topic other than the project
topic and prepare a technical report, showing his understanding of the topic, and
submit to the department, which shall be evaluated by a departmental committee
consisting of the Head of the department, seminar supervisor and a senior faculty
member. The seminar shall be evaluated for 100 marks based on the report
and presentation made.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s.
5
vii. There shall be a comprehensive viva-voce in IV year II semester. The
comprehensive viva-voce shall be conducted by a committee consisting of the
Head of the Department and three senior faculty members of the Department after
submitting the filled and duly signed M.T.P record. The comprehensive viva-
voce is aimed to assess the student’s understanding in various subjects studied
during the B.Tech. programme of study. The comprehensive viva-voce shall be
evaluated for 100 marks by the committee. There shall be no Mid-term
assessment for the comprehensive viva-voce.
Evaluation:-
a. Objective type examination – 50 marks. (Two hours test)
b. Committee evaluation – 50 marks.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s
viii. The project work shall be started by the student in the beginning of the IV year I
semester. Out of a total of 200 marks for the project work, 80 marks shall be for
mid-term evaluation and 120 marks for the semester end examination. The
viva-voce shall be conducted by a committee comprising an external examiner,
Head of the Department, the project supervisor and one senior faculty. The
evaluation of project work shall be conducted at the end of the IV year II
Semester. The mid-term evaluation shall be on the basis of three seminars
conducted during the IV year II semester for 80 marks by the committee
consisting of Head of the Department, project supervisor and senior faculty
member of the Department.
NOTE: Evaluation guidelines available with respective HOD’s
3. Semester End Examination (60 M):
(a) Theory Courses
Question paper pattern for semester end examination (60 Marks) consists of two
sections i.e., Part-A and Part-B.
PART-A:
• Shall consist of 10 questions of 02 marks each. (10X2M = 20M)
• There shall be 02 questions from each unit.
• All the questions are compulsory.
PART-B:
• Shall consist of 05 questions of 08 marks each. (05X8M = 40M)
• There shall be 01 question from each unit with internal choice.
6
(b) Practical Courses
Each laboratory course shall be evaluated for 60 marks. The semester end
examination shall be conducted by two examiners, one Internal and other external
concerned with the subject of the same / other department / Industry. The
evaluation shall be as per the standard format.
(c) Supplementary Examinations
Supplementary examinations shall be conducted along with regular semester end
examinations. (During even semester regular examinations, supplementary
examinations of odd semester and during odd semester regular examinations,
supplementary examinations of even semester shall be conducted).
4. Attendance Requirements
i. A student shall be eligible to appear for the semester end examinations if he / she
acquire a minimum of 75% of attendance in aggregate of all the courses in that
semester.
ii. Shortage of attendance in aggregate up to 10% (attendance of 65% and above
and below 75%) in a semester may be condoned by the Institute Academic
Committee based on the rules prescribed by the Academic Council of the
Institute from time to time.
iii. A student shall not be permitted to write the semester end examination and not
promoted to the next semester unless he/she satisfies the attendance requirement
of the present semester, as applicable. He/She may seek re-admission for that
semester when offered next, if not promoted to the next semester.
iv. Shortage of attendance below 65% in aggregate shall in NO case be
condoned.
v. Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned or who have not paid the
stipulated fee or who have not cleared any other due to the Institute in any
semester are not eligible to writer semester end examination of that semester.
5. Minimum Academic Requirements
The following academic requirements have to be satisfied in addition to the attendance
requirements mentioned in Regulation No.4.
i. A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic requirements
and earned the credits allotted to each theory or practical or design or drawing
subject or project, if he/she secures not less than 35% (21 out of 60 marks) of
marks in the semester end examination and a minimum of 40% of marks in
the sum total of the mid-term evaluation and semester end examination taken
together.
ii. For promotion from II year II semester to III year I semester, the student needs to
have 50% of credits up to II year II semester which includes
➢ Two regular and two supplementary examinations of I B Tech. I semester.
7
➢ Two regular and one supplementary examinations of I B Tech. II semester
➢ One regular and one supplementary examinations of II year I semester.
➢ One regular examinations of II year II semester.
iii. For promotion from III year II semester to IV year I semester, the student needs to
have 50% of credits up to III year II semester which includes
➢ Three regular and three supplementary examinations of I B Tech. I semester.
➢ Three regular and two supplementary examinations of I B Tech. II semester
➢ Two regular and two supplementary examinations of II year I semester.
➢ Two regular and one supplementary examinations of II year II semester.
➢ One regular and one supplementary examination of III year I semester.
➢ One regular examination of III year II semester.
iv. A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 188
credits and earn atleast 180 credits for the award of B.Tech. degree. The
grade obtained for the minimum credits shall be considered for the calculation of
CGPA.
v. The students shall take one open elective subject each from the lists given in open
elective-1 and open elective-2. The selected subjects shall not belong to their own
branch.
vi. The student shall be qualified in two certificate courses during his/her course of
study.
vii. “Gender Sensitization” is compulsory value added course as per the JNTUH
procds. No. A1/2557/XXII SCAS/2015(2), dated 19.11.2015.
viii. Students who fail to earn atleast 180 credits as indicated in the course structure
within eight academic years counting from the year of their admission shall
forfeit their seat in B.Tech. programme and their admission stands cancelled.
6. Course pattern
i. The entire programme of study is of four academic years. All I, II, III and IV years
are of semester pattern.
ii. A student eligible to appear for the semester end examination in a subject, but
absent or has failed in the semester end examination may reappear for that subject
in the supplementary examination whenever conducted.
iii. When a student is detained due to shortage of attendance in any semester, he/she
shall seek readmission into that semester when it is offered next, with the
academic regulations of the batch into which he/she gets readmitted and has
to obtain the degree within 8 academic years from the year of his/her original
admission.
iv. When a student is detained due to lack of credits in any year, he/she may be
eligible for promotion to the next year after obtaining the required number of credits
and fulfillment of the academic requirements.
8
7. Award of B.Tech. Degree and Class
A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. degree if he/she fulfils
the following academic regulations:
i. Pursued a programme of study for not less than four academic years and not
more than eight academic years.
ii. Registered for 188 credits and secured a minimum of 180 credits with
compulsory subjects as listed in the following Table.
Table: Compulsory Courses
S. No. Courses Particulars
1. All Practical Courses
2. Industry oriented mini project
3. Comprehensive Viva-Voce
4. Seminar
5. Project work
6. Engineering Graphics / Engineering Drawing / Machine Drawing
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award of the
degree within eight academic years from the year of their admission, shall forfeit their
seat in B.Tech. programme.
8. CGPA System:
Method of awarding absolute grades and grade points in four year B.Tech. degree
programme is as follows:
• Absolute Grading Method is followed, based on the total marks obtained in mid-
term and semester end examinations.
• Grades and Grade points are assigned as given below.
Description Grade Points(GP)
Marks Obtained Grade
of Grade Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A+ Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 A Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 B Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 C Fair 6.00
>=40 and <49.99 D Pass 5.00
<40 F Fail
--
Not Appeared the Exam(s) N Absent
9
• The student is eligible for the award of the B.Tech. degree with the class as
mentioned in the following table.
CGPA Class
>= 7.5 First Class with Distinction
>= 6.5 and <7.5 First Class
>= 5.5 and < 6.5 Second Class
>=5.0 and < 5.5 Pass Class
➢ Calculation of Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA):
The performance of each student at the end of the each semester shall be indicated in
terms of SGPA. The SGPA shall be calculated as below:
Where Ci = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘i’
Gi = Grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to the subject ‘i’
i = 1,2,…..p represent the number of subjects in a particular semester
Note: SGPA is calculated and awarded for the candidates who pass all the courses in a
semester.
➢ Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA):
The CGPA of a student for the entire programme shall be calculated as given
below:
• Assessment of the overall performance of a student shall be obtained by calculating
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA), which is weighted average of the grade
points obtained in all subjects during the course of study.
10
Where Cj = Number of credits allotted to a particular subject ‘j’
Gj = Grade Point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to that subject ‘j’
j = 1,2,….m represent the number of subjects of the entire program.
• Grade lower than D in any subject shall not be considered for CGPA calculation.
The CGPA shall be awarded only when the student acquires the required number
of credits prescribed for the program.
➢ Grade Card
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each subject offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each subject
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
9. Withholding of Results
If the student has not paid dues to the Institute, or if any case of indiscipline is pending
against him, the result of the candidate may be withheld. The award or issue of the
Provisional Certificate and the Degree may also be withheld in such cases.
10. Transitory Regulations
Students who have discontinued or have been detained for want of attendance or any
other academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and when they
become eligible. They have to take up Equivalent subjects, as substitute subjects in place
of repeated subjects as decided by the Chairman of the BoS of the respective
departments. He/She shall be admitted under the regulation of the batch in which he/she
is readmitted.
11. Minimum Instruction Days
The minimum instruction days for each semester shall be 90 instruction days.
12. There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission process.
13. The decision of the Institute Academic Committee shall be final in respect of
equivalent subjects for those students who are transferred from other colleges.
11
The transfer of students from other college or from this institute is to be approved
by the Governing Council of the Institute.
14. General
i. Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include “she”,
“her”, “hers”.
ii. The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
iii. In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arising in the above rules and
regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
iv. The Chairman Academic Council may change or amend any or all of the academic
regulations or syllabi at any time and the changes or amendments made shall be
applicable to all the students concerned with effect from the dates notified by the
College.
15. Academic Regulations for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2016-2017)
A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. degree if he/she fulfils
the following academic regulations:
i. Pursued a programme of study for not less than three academic years and not
more than six academic years.
ii. Registered for 138 credits and secured a minimum of 130 credits with
compulsory subjects as listed in the following Table.
Table: Compulsory Courses
S. No. Courses Particulars
1. All Practical Courses
2. Industry oriented mini project
3. Comprehensive Viva-Voce
4. Seminar
5. Project work
6. Engineering Graphics / Engineering Drawing / Machine Drawing
iii. A student who fails to earn a minimum of 130 credits as indicated in the course
structure within six academic years from the year of their admission shall forfeit
his/her seat in B.Tech. programme and his admission stands cancelled.
iv. The same attendance regulations are adopted as that of B.Tech. four year degree
course.
v. For promotion from III year II semester to IV year I semester, the student needs to
have 50% of credits up to III year II semester which includes
➢ Two regular and two supplementary examinations of II B Tech. I semester
➢ Two regular and one supplementary examinations of II B Tech. II semester
➢ One regular and one supplementary examinations of III B.Tech. I semester
➢ One regular of examinations of III year II semester
vi. All other regulations as applicable to B.Tech. four year degree course shall hold
good for B.Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme).
12
16. Malpractice Rules
Disciplinary Action for Malpractices/Improper Conduct in Examinations
Nature of Malpractices/Improper
S.
conduct
Punishment
No.
If the candidate:
(a) Possesses or keeps accessible in
examination hall, any paper, note book,
programmable calculators, Cell phones,
pager, palm computers or any other form
of material concerned with or related to Expulsion from the examination hall
the subject of the examination (theory or and cancellation of the
practical) in which he is appearing but performance in that subject only.
has not made use of (material shall
1.
include any marks on the body of the
candidate which can be used as an aid
in the subject of the examination)
(b)Gives assistance or guidance or Expulsion from the examination hall
receives it from any other candidate and cancellation of the
orally or by any other body language performance in that subject only of
methods or communicates through cell all the candidates involved. In case
phones with any candidate or persons in of an outsider, he shall be handed
or outside the exam hall in respect of over to the police and a case is
any matter. registered against him.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of the
performance in that subject and all
other subjects the candidate has
Has copied in the examination hall from
already appeared including
any paper, book, programmable
practical examinations and project
calculators, palm computers or any other
2. work and shall not be permitted to
form of material relevant to the subject of
appear for the remaining
the examination (theory or practical) in
examinations of the subjects of that
which the candidate is appearing.
Semester/year.
The Hall Ticket of the candidate is
to be cancelled.
13
The candidate who has
impersonated shall be expelled
from examination hall. The
candidate is also debarred and
forfeits the seat. The performance
of the original candidate, who has
been impersonated, shall be
cancelled in all the subjects of the
examination (including practicals
and project work) already appeared
and shall not be allowed to appear
Impersonates any other candidate in for examinations of the remaining
3.
connection with the examination. subjects of that semester/year.
The candidate is also debarred for
two consecutive semesters from
class work and all end semester
examinations. The continuation of
the course by the candidate is
subject to the academic regulations
in connection with forfeiture of seat.
If the imposter is an outsider, he
shall be handed over to the police
and a case is registered against
him.
Expulsion from the examination hall
4.
and cancellation of performance in
that subject and all the other
subjects the candidate has already
appeared including practical
Smuggles the Answer book or additional
examinations and project work and
sheet or takes out or arranges to send
shall not be permitted for the
out the question paper during the
remaining examinations of the
examination or answer book or
subjects of that semester/year. The
additional sheet, during or after the
candidate is also debarred for two
examination.
consecutive semesters from class
work and all end semester and
supplementary examinations The
continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the
academic regulations in connection
14
with forfeiture of seat.
Uses objectionable, abusive or offensive
language in the answer paper or in
Cancellation of the performance in
5. letters to the examiners or writes to the
that subject.
examiner requesting him to award pass
marks.
Refuses to obey the orders of the Chief
Superintendent/Assistant–
Superintendent / any officer on duty or
misbehaves or creates disturbance of
any kind in and around the examination
In case of students of the college,
hall or organizes a walk out or instigates
they shall be expelled from
others to walk out, or threatens the
examination halls and cancellation
officer-in charge or any person on duty
of their performance in that subject
in or outside the examination hall of any
and all other subjects the
injury to his person or to any of his
candidate(s) has (have) already
relations whether by words, either
appeared and shall not be
spoken or written or by signs or by
permitted to appear for the
6. visible representation, assaults the
remaining examinations of the
officer-in-charge, or any person on duty
subjects of that semester/year.
in or outside the examination hall or any
The candidates are also debarred
of his relations, or indulges in any other
and they shall forfeit their seats. In
act of misconduct or mischief which
case of outsiders, they shall be
result in damage to or destruction of
handed over to the police and a
property in the examination hall or any
police case is registered against
part of the College campus or engages
them.
in any other act which in the opinion of
the officer on duty amounts to use of
unfair means or misconduct or has the
tendency to disrupt the orderly conduct
of the examination.
Expulsion from the examination hall
Leaves the exam hall taking away
7. and cancellation of performance in
answer script or intentionally tears of the
that subject and all the other
script or any part thereof inside or
subjects the candidate has already
15
outside the examination hall. appeared including practical
examinations and project work and
shall not be permitted for the
remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year.
The candidate is also debarred for
two consecutive semesters from
class work and all end semester
examinations including
supplementary Examinations. The
continuation of the course by the
candidate is subject to the
academic regulations in connection
with forfeiture of seat.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of the
performance in that subject and all
other subjects the candidate has
Possesses any lethal weapon or firearm
already appeared including
in the examination hall.
8. practical examinations and project
work and shall not be permitted for
the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that semester/year.
The candidate is also debarred and
forfeits the seat.
If the student belongs to the
college, expulsion from the
examination hall and cancellation of
the performance in that subject and
If student of the college, who is not a all other subjects the candidate has
candidate for the particular examination already appeared including
or any person not connected with the practical examinations and project
9.
college indulges in any malpractice or work and shall not be permitted for
improper conduct mentioned in any of the remaining examinations of the
clauses 6 to 8. subjects of that semester/year. The
candidate is also debarred and
forfeits the seat.
Person(s) who do not belong
to the College shall be handed over
16
to police and, a police case shall be
registered against them.
Expulsion from the examination hall
and cancellation of the
performance in that subject and all
other subjects the candidate has
Comes in a drunken condition to the already appeared including
10.
examination hall. practical examinations and project
work and shall not be permitted for
the remaining examinations of the
subjects of that series of the
semester/year.
Cancellation of the performance in
that subject and all other subjects
Copying detected on the basis of internal
the candidate has appeared
11. evidence, such as, during valuation or
including practical examinations
during special scrutiny.
and project work of that
semester/year.
If any malpractice is detected which is
not covered in the above clauses 1 to 11
12. shall be reported to the academic
council of the Institute for further action
to award suitable punishment.
Malpractices identified by squad or special invigilators
Punishments shall be given to the candidates as per the above guidelines.
Malpractice identified at Spot center during valuation
The following procedure is to be followed in the case of malpractice cases detected
during valuation, scrutiny etc. at spot center.
1) Malpractice is detected at the spot valuation. The case is to be referred to the
malpractice committee. Malpractice committee shall meet and discuss/question
the candidate and based on the evidences, the committee shall recommend
suitable action on the candidate.
17
2) A notice is to be served to the candidate(s) involved, through the Principal, to his
address and to the candidate(s) permanent address regarding the malpractice and
seek explanations.
3) The involvement of staff who are in charge of conducting examinations,
invigilators, examiners valuing examination papers and preparing / keeping
records of documents related to the examinations in such acts (inclusive of
providing incorrect or misleading information) that infringe upon the course of
natural justice to one and all concerned at the examinations shall be viewed
seriously and recommend for award of appropriate punishment after thorough
enquiry.
4) Based on the explanation by the party involved and recommendations of the
committee action may be initiated.
5) Malpractice committee:
i. Dean, Academics Chairman
ii. Controller of Examinations Convener
iii. Invigilator Member
iv. Chief Examiner of the subject/subject expert Member
v. Concerned Head of the Department Member
18
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
An Autonomous Institute
Approved by AICTE & Affiliated to JNTUH
Accredited by NBA and NAAC with ‘A’ Grade
B.TECH. (MECHANICAL ENGINEERING):
Degree: B.Tech. Specialization: Mechanical Engineering
Duration: 4 Years Details: 8 semesters
Mode: Full-time Year of starting: 1995
study:
Intake: 120 Regulations: R15
➢ Overview of the programme:
Mechanical engineering is a broad and diverse discipline that derives its breadth
from the need to design, analyze and manufacture everything from small to
large components, assemblies and systems either stationary or in motion. The
four year programme is designed to prepare graduates with creative thinking
that allows them to design a product, use the analytical tools to achieve the
design goals, ability to overcome constraints, work in a team to find solutions
with social relevance. The programme has been running for the last 21 years
and is regularly updated in line with the subject developments and changing
industrial practices. Mechanical engineers learn about materials, solid and fluid
mechanics, thermodynamics, heat transfer, control, instrumentation, design and
manufacturing processes etc., to understand mechanical systems. Specialized
mechanical engineering subjects include unconventional machining processes,
composite materials, MEMS, nanotechnology, tribology, vibrations etc.
19
B.TECH. (MECHANICAL ENGINEERING)
❖ PROGRAMME EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES:
I. To prepare students for successful careers as mechanical engineers in
B.TECH. (MECHANICAL ENGINEERING)
❖ PROGRAMME OUTCOMES:
a. Demonstrate basic knowledge of mathematics, sciences and mechanical
engineering and essential computational techniques/procedures that aid in
problem solving and be in a position to face competitive examinations.
b. Identify, critically analyze, formulate and solve mechanical engineering
problems.
c. Design a system, a component or a process in the domain of mechanical
engineering, prepare a model, conduct experiments, analyze and interpret
data.
d. Visualize and work in engineering and science laboratories on
multidisciplinary tasks as teams, conduct investigations and solve complex
problems.
e. Use modern engineering tools, equipment, processes and state-of-the-art
software packages on modeling and analysis for solving problems.
f. Demonstrate an understanding of the impact of engineering solutions on
society to ensure that no ill effects befall; and also be aware of contemporary
issues.
g. Understand the impact of engineering solutions on the environment to
mitigate any ill effects and ensure sustainability of solutions arrived at.
h. Possess knowledge, understanding and application of professional and
ethical responsibilities and human values in all professional transactions.
i. Utilize ability to work as individuals as well as team members on engineering
problems and be able to understand group dynamics and play their role
appropriately in the group and develop entrepreneurial skills.
j. Communicate effectively in both verbal and written form.
k. Administer and execute projects with emphases on time management,
financial management and personnel management.
l. Develop a penchant for self-education, inclination for updating with
developments, participate in professional societies, interact with stalwarts in
the field and continue life-long learning.
20
Opportunities:
The passed out students of this programme are well received by the core
manufacturing industry as well as software organizations. The students
discharge responsibilities as design engineers, manufacturing engineers,
production engineers, engineering managers, systems engineers, or R & D
engineers. They are placed in various companies like Tata Consultancy
Services, Hyundai, Honda, Mahindra & Mahindra, Denison Hydraulics - Veljan,
info tech, cap Gemini, Rane Valves to name a few. Some of the graduate
students have opted for pursuing higher studies in various advanced topics of
mechanical engineering, both in India and in universities abroad – US,
Germany, Canada etc.
2 1
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B.Tech (Mechanical Engineering)
I YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course Code Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
5BS11 Advanced Calculus 3 0 3
5BS21 Engineering Physics 3 0 3
Chemistry of Engineering
5BS31 3 0 3
Materials
C Programming and Data
5IT01 3 1 4
Structures
5CE01 Engineering Mechanics – I 3 1 4
5ME51 Engineering Graphics – I 0 6 3
Engineering Physics and
5BS25 Engineering Chemistry 0 3 2
Laboratory
C Programming and Data
5IT51 0 3 2
Structures Laboratory
Total 15 14 24
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
22
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B.Tech (Mechanical Engineering)
I YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course Code Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
5CE03 Environmental Studies 3 0 3
Ordinary Differential Equations
5BS12 3 0 3
and Laplace Transforms
5BS22 Physics of Materials 3 0 3
5BS32 Engineering Chemistry 3 0 3
5BS01 English 3 0 3
5CE02 Engineering Mechanics – II 3 1 4
5ME52 Engineering Graphics - II 0 6 3
5ME53 IT and Engineering Workshop 0 3 2
English Language
5BS02 Communication Skills 0 3 2
Laboratory
Total 18 13 26
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
23
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B.Tech (Mechanical Engineering)
II YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course Code Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Partial Differential Equations
5BS14 with Applications and 3 0 3
Complex Analysis
5ME01 Mechanics of Solids 3 0 3
5ME02 Thermodynamics 3 1 4
Metallurgy and Material
5ME03 3 0 3
Science
Fluid Mechanics and
5ME04 3 0 3
Hydraulic Machines
Metallurgy and Material
5ME54 0 3 2
Science Laboratory
Mechanics of Solids
5ME55 0 3 2
Laboratory
Fluid Mechanics and
5ME56 Hydraulic Machines 0 3 2
Laboratory
Total 15 10 22
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
24
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B.Tech (Mechanical Engineering)
II YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course Code Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
5BS13 Computational Methods 3 0 3
Business Economics and
5BS41 3 0 3
Financial Analysis
5ME05 Kinematics of Machinery 3 1 4
5ME06 Thermal Engineering 3 1 4
Basic Electrical and
5EE23 3 0 3
Electronics Engineering
5ME57 Machine Drawing 0 6 3
Thermal Engineering
5ME58 0 3 2
Laboratory
Basic Electrical and
5EE63 Electronics Engineering 0 3 2
Laboratory
Total 15 17 24
#5BS04 Gender Sensitization - 3 2
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
# Value added Course
25
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B.Tech (Mechanical Engineering)
III YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course
Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
Code
5ME07 Production Technology 3 0 3
5ME08 Dynamics of Machinery 3 1 4
5ME09 Mechanical Engineering Design - I 3 0 3
5ME10 Heat and Mass Transfer 3 0 3
5ME11 Turbo Machinery 3 0 3
Open Elective-I 3 0 3
5ME59 Production Technology Laboratory 0 3 2
5ME60 Heat and Mass Transfer Laboratory 0 3 2
Total 18 7 23
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
26
Open Elective – I Basket:
Course Offered By the
Course
Course Name Department
Code
5CE71 Disaster Management CE
5EE71 Renewable Energy Technologies EEE
5ME71 Digital Fabrication ME
5EC71 Principles of Electronic Communications ECE
Object Oriented Programming Through
5CS71 CSE
JAVA
Principles of Measurements and
5EI71 EIE
Instrumentation
5IT71 Cyber Security IT
5AE71 Principles of Automobile Engineering AE
5BS71 Professional Ethics and Human Values H & S
27
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B.Tech (Mechanical Engineering)
III YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course Code Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
5ME12 Machine Tools 3 0 3
5ME13 Mechanical Engineering Design -II 3 1 4
5ME14 Metrology and Quality Control 3 0 3
Instrumentation and Control
5EI80 3 0 3
Systems
Open Elective-II 3 0 3
Machine Tools and Metrology
5ME61 0 3 2
Laboratory
Advanced English Communication
5BS03 0 3 2
Skills Laboratory
Instrumentation and Control
5EI95 0 3 2
Systems Laboratory
Total 15 10 22
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
28
Open Elective – II
Course Offered By the
Course
Course Name Department
Code
Introduction to Geographical Information
5CE72 CE
Systems
Energy Auditing Conservation and
5EE72 EEE
Management
5ME72 Optimization Techniques ME
Introduction to Micro Processors and
5EC72 ECE
Controllers
5EC95 Wireless Communications and Networks ECE
5CS72 Open Source Technologies CSE
5EI72 LabVIEW Programming EIE
5EI79 Fundamentals of Robotics EIE
Relational Database Management
5IT72 IT
Systems
5AE72 Modern Automotive Technologies AE
5BS72 Entrepreneurship H & S
29
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B.Tech (Mechanical Engineering)
IV YEAR I SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course Code Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
5ME15 Finite Element Method 3 1 4
5ME16 CAD/CAM 3 0 3
5ME17 Operations Research 3 0 3
Elective – I
5ME73
Refrigeration and Air Conditioning
5ME74 Automation & Robotics
3 0 3
5ME75 Theory of Metal Cutting
5ME76 Quality Engineering in Manufacturing
Elective – II
5ME77
Computational Fluid Dynamics
5ME78 Mechanical Vibrations
3 0 3
5ME79 Additive Manufacturing
5ME80 Product Life Cycle Management
5ME62 CAD/CAM Laboratory 0 3 2
5ME63 Production Drawing Practice Laboratory 0 3 2
5ME64 Automation & Robotics Laboratory 0 3 2
5ME91 Industry Oriented Mini Project 0 4 2
Total 15 14 24
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
30
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
B.Tech (Mechanical Engineering)
IV YEAR II SEMESTER COURSE STRUCTURE
Course Code Course Name Lectures T/P/D Credits
5ME18 Industrial Engineering and Management 3 0 3
Elective – III
5ME81
Power Plant Engineering
5ME82 Design for Manufacturing
3 0 3
5ME83 Unconventional Machining Processes
5ME84 Principles of Entrepreneurship
Elective – IV
5ME85
Automobile Engineering
5ME86 Tool Design
3 0 3
5ME87 Metal Casting Technology
5ME88 Nano Science and Technology
5ME92 Technical Seminar 0 3 2
5ME93 Comprehensive Viva Voce 0 0 2
5ME94 Project Work 0 20 10
Total 9 23 23
* T/P/D: Tutorial/Practical/Drawing Practice
Note: All End Examinations (Theory and Practical/ Drawing) are of three hours duration.
31
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS11) ADVANCED CALCULUS
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, IT, EIE & AE)
Course prerequisites: Differentiation, Integration
Course Objectives:
• Understand the Taylor’s theorem and its application to maxima and minima of f(x,y)
• Understand the process of curve tracing.
• Understand multiple integrals and its applications
• Apply integral theorems of vector calculus.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Solve problems involving the maxima and minima of f(x,y).
• Trace curves using basic characteristics.
• Evaluate integrals using special functions and change of variables.
• Evaluate vector integrals.
UNIT I
CALCULUS OF ONE AND SEVERAL REAL VARIABLES Mean value theorems – Role’s
Theorem, Lagrange’s Mean value theorem, Cauchy’s Mean value theorem , Taylor’s
expansion and McLaurin’s expansion of functions (without proofs).
Partial differentiation, partial derivatives of first and second order in terms of partial
derivatives, change of variables , Jacobian, Taylor’s theorem of two variables(without proof).
Maxima and Minima of two variables, Langrange’s method of undetermined multipliers.
UNIT II
CURVE TRACING AND RELATED APPLICATIONS
Radius of Curvature of curves in Cartesian, parametric and polar coordinates. Tracing of
curves in Cartesian, parametric and polar coordinates (like conics, astroid, hypocycloid,
Folium of Descartes, Cycloid, Circle, Cardiode, Lemniscate).
UNIT III
MULTIPLE INTEGRALS
Beta, Gamma and Error functions, Introduction of Multiple integrals, Evaluation of double
and triple integrals, Change of order of integration, Change of variables, Cylindrical and
Spherical polar coordinates.
UNIT IV
VECTOR DIFFERENTIAL CALCULUS
Scalar and Vector point functions, Gradient, Divergence, Curl with geometrical & physical
interpretation, Directional derivatives, Vector identities (without proofs).
32
UNIT V
VECTOR INTEGRAL CALCULUS
Line integrals and application to work done and circulation, Scalar potential function, Surface
integrals and Volume integrals, Gauss divergence theorem, Green’s theorem , Stokes’
theorem (theorems without proof).
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – by B. S. Grewal,Khanna publishers
2. Calculus and Analytic Geometry by Thomas and Finney, 9th edition; Publisher:
Pearson Education.
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th edition; Publisher: John
Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter ‘O’ Neil, publisher: Cengage
Learning.
3. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa
Publications.
33
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS21) ENGINEERING PHYSICS
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, IT, EIE & AE)
Course prerequisites: Basic knowledge of Mathematics and Physics.
Course Objectives:
• To supplement and enhance the knowledge of basic concepts in physics essentially
required in the study of interaction of light with matter and behavior of a particle
quantum mechanically.
• To study and understand various phenomena of light- Interference, Diffraction,
Dispersion and total internal reflection.
• To learn and enhance the basic concepts in physics required to deal with large
number of particles and behavior of an electron in metals.
• To understand the basic principles and working of lasers and optical fibers.
• To learn simple applications of these concepts and principles in engineering and
technology.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Realize influence of diffraction and resolvability in optical elements.
• Recognize importance of interference in thin films.
• Distinguish LASER light from ordinary light and describe propagation of light
through Optical fiber by Total Internal reflection.
• Illustrate behavior of a particle in one dimensional potential box.
• Understand behavior of electron in a periodic potential in real crystal and classify
Solids based on conduction
UNIT I
INTERFERENCE:
Introduction, Superposition principle, Resultant amplitude, Coherence - Methods to obtain
coherent sources, Interference, Young’s Double Slit Experiment, interference in thin films by
reflection, Newton’s rings Experiment-Formation of Rings and Experimental Method,
Characteristics of rings, Applications
UNIT II
DIFFRACTION:
Introduction, Distinguish between Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction, Diffraction at single slit
(Phasors approach), Diffraction at double slit, circular aperture, and multiple slits (grating)(
Qualitative Approach)-Width of Principal Maxima and Dispersion, Resolution of spectral lines,
Rayleigh criterion, and resolving power of grating.
34
UNIT III
LASERS AND OPTICAL FIBERS:
Introduction, Characteristics of Lasers, Spontaneous and Stimulated Emission of radiation,
Meta stable state, Population inversion, Lasing action, Einstein’s coefficients and relation
between them, Ruby Laser, Helium-Neon Laser, Semiconductor Laser.
Principle of optical fiber and Properties, Acceptance angle and acceptance cone, Numerical
aperture, Types of fibers based on refractive index profiles, Qualitative analysis of attenuation
in optical fibers, Application of Lasers and Optical fibers.
UNIT IV
ELEMENTS OF QUANTUM MECHANICS:
Waves and particles, De Broglie hypothesis, Matter waves, Davisson and Germer
experiment, Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle- Applying it to Non existence of electron in
Nucleus and Single slit Experiment.
Schrodinger Wave Equation – Wave function and its Physical Significance, Particle in one
dimensional potential box(wave functions, probability densities and energy states), Maxwell-
Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics (non-mathematical treatment).
UNIT V
ELECTRON THEORY OF METALS:
Energy levels in one dimension, Effect of temperature on the Fermi-Dirac distribution,
Electrical conductivity & Ohm’s law, Electrical Resistivity of Metals (Qualitative), Electron in a
periodic potential, Bloch Theorem, Kronig-Penney model (non-mathematical treatment),
Origin of energy band formation in solids, Classification of materials into conductors,
semiconductors & Insulators and Concept of effective mass of an electron.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Physics vol.2, by Halliday, Resnick and Krane; John Wiley & Sons.
2. Engineering Physics by R.K.Gaur and S.L.Gupta; Dhanpat Rai and Sons.
REFERENCES:
1. Optics by Ghatak and Thyagarajan, Tata Mc Graw.
2. Concepts of Modern physics by Arthur Beiser, McGraw Hill Inc.
3. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel : John Wiley & Sons
4. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd.
5. Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press.
35
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS31) CHEMISTRY OF ENGINEERING MATERIALS
(Common to CE, ME & AE)
Course prerequisites: Basic knowledge of mathematics and chemistry.
Course Objectives:
• Classification and applications of abrasives and adhesives.
• Familiarity of the types and applications of refractories and ceramics.
• Examining the properties of lubricants and learning the mechanism of lubrication.
• Knowledge of manufacturing of cement and its properties.
• Listing out various types of fuels and understanding the concept of calorific values.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Formulate and infer the suitability of abrasives and adhesives in different industries.
• Understand benefits of refractories and ceramics as heat resistant materials in
industries.
• Assess the quality of lubricants and their appropriate usage in machinery.
• Interpret the setting and hardening process of cement.
• Acquire the knowledge of efficiency of fuels and identify a better fuel source of less
pollution.
UNIT I
ENGINEERING MATERIALS:
ABRASIVES - Introduction, classification and applications of natural abrasives (diamond,
quartz (SiO )) , synthetic abrasives ( silicon carbide, boron nitride).
2
ADHESIVES: Criteria of a good adhesive, classification and applications of thermoplastic
adhesives (cellulose and acrylics), thermosetting adhesives (phenol formaldehyde and epoxy
resins).
UNIT II
REFRACTORIES AND CERAMICS:
REFRACTORIES: Definition; classification with examples; characteristics of a good
refractory; causes for the failure of a refractory material; properties of refractories -
refractoriness, RUL test, porosity.
CERAMICS: Introduction; classification- whiteware, stoneware, earthenware and their
applications, Glazing- definition, liquid glazing.
UNIT III
LUBRICANTS:
Criteria of a good lubricant; classification of lubricants (lubricating oils, greases or semisolid
lubricants, solid lubricants). Mechanism of lubrication-fluid film lubrication, boundary
36
lubrication, and extreme pressure lubrication; Properties of lubricants –definition and
significance of viscosity, cloud point, pour point, flash & fire point, mechanical stability,
oiliness, and carbon residue.
Biodegradable lubricants: classification, advantages and disadvantages of biodegradable
lubricants.
UNIT IV
CEMENT:
Types of cement; chemical constituents and composition of Portland cement; manufacturing
methods of Portland cement (wet and dry processes). Setting & Hardening of cement
(reactions); decay of cement; cement concrete - RCC.
UNIT V
ENERGY SOURCES:
Fuels - classification (solid, liquid, gaseous), calorific value of fuel (HCV, LCV), Dulong
formula- numericals, Solid fuels – coal – analysis – proximate and ultimate analysis and their
significance (no numerical problems), Liquid fuels – petrol – cracking, need for cracking,
types of cracking( thermal and catalytric cracking), fluid bed catalytic cracking, synthetic
petrol by Fischer- Tropsch’s process. Knocking- octane number, cetane number. Gaseous
fuels- natural gas, LPG, CNG (composition and uses).
Biofuels- characteristics, biodiesel - transesterification, properties and applications.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, and Jyotsna Cherukuri;
Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain & Monica Jain; Publisher: Dhanpatrai.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna; McGraw Hill Edu.Pvt.Ltd.
2. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by Shashi Chawla Publisher: Dhanpat rai &Co
3. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi, Cengage Learning
Publications.
4. Text book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, Sulochana
Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
37
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5IT01) C PROGRAMMING AND DATA STRUCTURES
(Common to CE, ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Knowledge on Computers and Mathematics.
Course Objectives:
• Discuss the history of computers and fundamentals of problem solving using structured
programming
• Identify the appropriate decision making and branching statements to solve the problem
• Understand different derived data types
• Identify basic and advanced sorting and searching techniques and understand the
operations of linear data structures
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply knowledge of mathematics, science engineering and technology in problems
solving using C programming Language
• Analyze structured programming methods, techniques and standard library
functions
• Understand and relate different derived data types and able to choose the loops
and decision making statements to solve the given problem
• Identify trade-offs involved in choosing static versus dynamic data structures and
also implementation of stacks, queues and linked lists and different searching and
sorting techniques for a given application
UNIT I
Introduction to Computers-Computer Systems, Computing Environments, Computer
languages, creating and running programs, Software Development Methods.
UNIT II
Algorithm / pseudo code, flowchart, program development steps, structure of C program,
identifiers, basic data types, Constants, variables, operators, expressions, precedence and
order of evaluation.
Input-output statements, if and switch statements, loops- while, do-while and for statements,
break, continue, goto and labels, example C programs.
38
UNIT III
Functions, basic concepts, parameter passing, storage classes, scope rules, user defined
functions, standard library functions, recursive functions, example C programs.
Arrays- Basic concepts, one-dimensional and two-dimensional arrays, Character array, string
handling functions, example C programs.
UNIT IV
Derived types- structures- Basic concepts, nested structures, arrays of structures, program
examples.
pointers- Basic concepts, pointers and functions, pointers and strings, pointers and arrays,
pointers and structures, self referential structures, example C programs.
UNIT V
Searching - Linear and binary search methods, sorting - Bubble sort, selection sort, Insertion
sort.
Introduction to data structures, Dynamic memory allocation, stacks and queues-
implementation using arrays.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Computer science, A structured programming approach using C, B.A. Forouzan
and R.F. Gilberg, Third edition, Thomson.
2. C Programming andData structures, E.Balagurusamy,TMH.
REFERENCES:
1. Data Structures Using C - A.S.Tanenbaum, Y. Langsam, and M.J. Augenstein,
PHI/Pearson Education.
2. Programming in C - Stephen G. Kochan, III Edition, Pearson Eductaion.
3. Data Structures and Program Design in C, R.Kruse, C.L. Tondo, BP Leung, Shashi
M, Second Edition, Pearson Education.
4. The C Programming Language, B.W. Kernighan, Dennis M.Ritchie, PHI/Pearson
Education
39
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5CE01) ENGINEERING MECHANICS – I
(Common to CE, ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Physics, Mathematics
Course Objectives:
• Understand and analyse the forces and reactions for equilibrium
• Discuss various types of friction, laws of friction and analyse body/bodies lying on
rough planes
• Distinguish between centroid, centre of mass and centre of gravity
• Understand the concept of area moment of inertia and mass moment of inertia
about any axes
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Determine the resultant of coplanar concurrent and non-concurrent force systems
and analyse the bodies for equilibrium to find the unknown forces
• Analyze the bodies on rough horizontal and inclined planes and connected bodies
• Determine the centroid of composite areas, centre of gravity of composite bodies
• Determine the moment of inertia of simple areas and mass MI of simple bodies
UNIT I
FORCES:
Introduction to Engineering Mechanics – Basic Concepts - Classification of a force system -
Parallelogram law of forces - Triangle law of forces - Polygon law of forces – law of
transmissibility of forces – Principle of superposition - Lami’s theorem - Free Body Diagram –
Resultant – Equilibrant - Resultant of coplanar concurrent forces - Equilibrium of coplanar
concurrent forces.
UNIT II
MOMENTS:
Moment of a force - Varignon’s principle - Parallel forces - Resultant of parallel forces –
Couple - Moment of a couple about any point lying in the plane - Resolution of a force into a
force-couple and vice-versa - Resultant of coplanar non-concurrent forces - Equilibrium of
coplanar non-concurrent forces –Types of supports - Support reactions
40
UNIT III
FRICTION:
Types of Friction - Limiting Friction - Laws of Friction - Equilibrium of bodies on rough
horizontal and inclined planes- Equilibrium of connected bodies on rough horizontal and
inclined planes - Ladder friction – wedge friction – screw friction
UNIT IV
CENTROID, CENTRE OF MASS, CENTRE OF GRAVITY:
Centroid - Centroids of simple figures (from basic principles) – Centroids of composite figures
and built-up sections - Centre of mass of simple bodies - Centre of gravity of simple bodies -
Centre of gravity of composite bodies - Pappu’s theorems.
UNIT V
AREA MOMENT OF INERTIA:
Introduction- Inertia - Inertia of areas - Rotation of areas - Radius of gyration - Polar moment
of inertia - Parallel axis theorem - Perpendicular axis theorem - Moments of inertia of simple
figures and composite figures.
MASS MOMENT OF INERTIA:
Moment of inertia of Masses – Significance - Rotation of mass - Mass moment of inertia of
simple bodies.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Mechanics by S.Timoshenko, D.H.Young & J.V.Rao, Tata McGraw
Hill Publishers,4th Edition,2010
2. Singer’s Engineering Mechanics by K. Vijaya Kumar Reddy & J. Suresh kumar ,
B.S Publishers,3rd Edition,2011
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Mechanics by S.S. Bhavikatti, Newage International Publishers,2012
2. Engineering Mechanics (Statics) by J.L.Meriam & L.G.Kraige, Wiley Publishers, 6th
Edition,2006
3. Engineering Mechanics by A.K.Tayal, Umesh Publications,13th Edition,2010
4. Engineering Mechanics by R.K. Rajput, laxmi Publications,1998
41
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
0 6 3
(5ME51) ENGINEERING GRAPHICS- I
(Common to ME, AE)
Course Prerequisites: Geometrical constructions.
Course Objectives:
• Remember the conventions of Engineering Drawing and Auto Cad software
commands and know the importance of engineering scales and engineering
curves
• Know the importance of orthographic projections and orientations of points,
lines, planes and its traces
• Understand the importance of positions of planes and its auxiliary views
• Understand the importance of positions of solids and its auxiliary views
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Interpret the concepts of scales and curves and Solve the problems as per
the drawing conventions by using Auto Cad
• Solve the problems on Projections of points, lines and their traces by using
Auto Cad
• Solve the problems on positions of planes and the auxiliary views by using
Auto Cad
• Apply the knowledge of orientations of solids and solve the problems on
solids and its auxiliary views by using Auto Cad
UNIT I
Introduction to AutoCAD.
INTRODUCTION TO ENGINEERING DRAWING:
Principles of engineering graphics and their significance; Drawing instruments and their uses;
Conventions in drawing-lettering; BIS Convention; Different types of scales; Scale of chords.
UNIT II
CURVES USED IN ENGINEERING PRACTICE AND THEIR CONSTRUCTION:
Ellipse; Parabola; Hyperbola and Rectangular hyperbola; Cycloid; Epicycloids; Hypocycloid –
Involutes.
42
UNIT III
PROJECTIONS OF POINTS & STRAIGHT LINES:
Points and straight lines inclined to both planes; True lengths and traces.
UNIT IV
PROJECTION OF PLANES:
Projection of regular planes inclined to both planes; Auxiliary projections.
UNIT V
PROJECTION OF SOLIDS:
Projection of regular solids-inclined to both planes; Auxiliary projections.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Elementary Engineering Drawing by N.D. Bhat; Publisher: Charotar Publishing
House
2. Engineering Drawing by K.L. Narayana and P. Kannaiah; Publisher:Scitech
Publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Graphics for degree by K.C. John; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
43
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech CE-I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS25) ENGINEERING PHYSICS AND ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
ENGINEERING PHYSICS LAB LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
• To practically learn interaction of light with matter through physical phenomena like
interference, diffraction and dispersion.
• To understand the periodic motion and formation of standing waves and to know
the characteristics of the capacitors and resistors.
• To compare the experimental results with the class room learning.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Demonstrate the optical phenomena with formation of Newton Rings, and formation
of spectra with a grating and a prism.
• Illustrate periodic motion by measuring rigidity modulus of a material and formation
of standing waves by Melde’s apparatus and also discharging of a capacitor.
• Correlate the experimental results with the class room learning.
Any Eight Experiments from the following:
1. Dispersive Power of the material of a Prism using Spectrometer
2. Diffraction Grating (both with Laser and non laser source)
3. Single Slit with laser light
4. Newton Rings
5. Finding thickness of a thin wire or sheet by forming a wedge shaped film
6. Energy gap of a semiconductor material
7. To determine the rigidity modulus of material of a wire
8. Melde’s experiment
9. Sonometer Experiment
10. AC frequency by sonometer method
11. Numerical Aperture and Acceptance angle of an optical fiber cable
12. Attenuation and Bending losses in optical fiber
13. Stewart Gee’s experiment
14. Characteristics of LED/Laser Diode.
15. Photo cell/ Solar Cell
16. C circuit
REFERENCES:
1. Essential Practical Lab Manual in Physics: by Dr.P.Raghavendra
Rao,P.Pavankumar and B.Ashok (inhouse document)
2. Engineering Physics Practicals by B.Srinivasa Rao, V.K.V.Krishna and
K.S.Rudramamba, University Science Press, New Delhi
44
ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LABORATORY
Pre-requisites: Basic knowledge of Volumetric Analysis and Mathematics.
Course Objectives:
• Familiarize the preparation of solutions and operation of instruments
• Conduct of experiment, collection and analyzing the data
• Summarizing the data and find the applicability of the experiment to common
society
Course Outcomes:
• Understanding the preparation of standard solutions and handling of instruments
• Knowledge of experimentation and recording the data
• Interpretation of results to real world scenario
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
1. Titrimetry: Estimation of hardness of water by EDTA method.
2. Conductometry: Conductometric titration of acid vs base.
3. Colorimetry: Estimation of copper by colorimetric method.
4. pH metry: Determination of pH of sample solutions.
5. Determination of viscosity of sample oil by Redwood Viscometer.
6. Preparations: Soap and Nanoparticles.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by S.K.Bhasin and Sudha Rani;
Publisher: Dhanpat Rai.
2. Laboratory Manual on Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari and Jyotsna
Cherukuri; Publisher: VGS Book Links.
45
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I YEAR B. TECH I Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5IT51) C PROGRAMMING AND DATA STRUCTURES LABORATORY
(Common to CE, ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Knowledge on Computers and Mathematics.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the basic structure of C programming
• List different decision making and branching statements and their usage in analyzing
problems
• Understand the usage of derived data types to solve the problems
• Apply different searching and sorting methods and implement linear data structures
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply mathematics, science, engineering and technology in problem solving using
C programming language.
• Design c programs using different c tokens .
• Experiment appropriate decision making statements and derived data types to
solve a given problem.
• Analyze and implement linear data structures, and differentiate the various
searching and sorting techniques.
Week 1
1. Write a program that reads three different integers from the keyboard and prints –
sum, average, product, smallest, largest of the numbers.
2. Write a program that reads two integers and prints – difference, quotient and
remainder
3. WAP that reads two integers and determines whether the first is a multiple of the
other
Week 2
1. Write a C program to find the sum of individual digits of a positive integer.
2. Write a C program for Fibonacci sequence.
3. Write a C program to generate the first n terms of the sequence.
4. Write a C program to generate all the prime numbers between 1 and n, where n is a
value supplied by the user.
46
Week 3
1. Write a C program to calculate the following Sum:
Sum=1-x2/2! +x4/4!-x6/6!+x8/8!-x10/10!
2. Write a C program toe find the roots of a quadratic equation.
Week 4
1. Write C programs that use both recursive and non-recursive functions
i) To find the factorial of a given integer.
ii) To find the GCD (greatest common divisor) of two given integers.
iii) To solve Towers of Hanoi problem.
Week 5
1. Write a C program, which takes two integer operands and one operator from the
user, performs the operation and then prints the result. (Consider the operators +,-
,*, /, % and use Switch Statement)
2. Write a program to print a given number [0-1000] in words. For example, 123 as
One Hundred and Twenty Three
Week 6
1. WAP to check whether a given number is an Armstrong, Palindrome, Perfect,
Prime, or a Fibonacci Number
2. Write a C program to find both the largest and smallest number in a list of integers
Week 7
1. Write a C program to generate Pascal’s triangle.
2. Write a C program to construct a pyramid of numbers.
Week 8
1. Write a C program to calculate
i) Minimum and maximum of an 1-d array
ii) Sorting an array
iii) Searching an array
Week 9
1. Write a C program that uses functions to perform the following:
i) Addition of Two Matrices
ii) Multiplication of Two Matrices
iii) To find the determinant of a 3 by 3 matrix
47
Week 10
1. Write a C program that uses functions to perform the following operations using
Pointers:
i. To insert a sub-string in to a given main string from a given position.
ii. To delete n Characters from a given position in a given string.
iii. To reverse a given string
Week 11
1. Write C Programs to implement Structures and Nested structures with suitable
Examples (Students has to practice with relevant examples taught in the class room)
Week 12
1. Write C Programs using Pointers and Pointer Arithmetic Operations
2. Write C Programs using Pointers to structures, Pointers to Arrays and Pointers to
strings
(Students has to practice with relevant examples taught in the class room)
Week 13
1. Write C Programs to implement the following sorting algorithms
a. Bubble Sort b. Selection sort c. Insertion Sort
Week 1
1. Write a C program to implement STACK and QUEUE operations using Arrays
Week 15
1. Write a C program to implement the following searching techniques.
a. Linear Search b. Binary Search
Week 16 Lab Internal Examination
TEXT BOOKS :
1. Computer science, A structured programming approach using C, B.A. Forouzan
and R.F. Gilberg, Third edition, Thomson.
2. C Programming and Data structures, E.Balagurusamy, TMH.
48
REFERENCES:
1. Data Structures Using C - A.S.Tanenbaum, Y. Langsam, and M.J. Augenstein,
PHI/Pearson Education.
2. Programming in C - Stephen G. Kochan, III Edition, Pearson Eductaion.
3. Data Structures and Program Design in C, R.Kruse, C.L. Tondo, BP Leung, Shashi
M, Second Edition, Pearson Education.
49
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B. Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5CE03) ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, IT, EIE & AE)
Course Prerequisites: General Science
Course Objectives:
• Recognize the importance of environment and ecosystem
• Identify & Analyze human activities and its impact on environment.
• List and understand about the importance of natural resources, Biodiversity &
effect of environment pollution
• Understand about environmental regulations ,economy and environment
interaction
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Acquire the knowledge about importance of environment & ecosystem
• Develop skills in understanding of various environmental problems
• Find the solution and strategies to protect the Environment
• List & Distinguish various organizations, regulations for environment protection
UNIT I
ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES:
Introduction, Definition, scope and importance.
ECOSYSTEMS:
Introduction, types, characteristic features, structure and functions of ecosystems. Bio-geo-
chemical cycle, Classification of Ecosystem.
BIO-DIVERSITY AND ITS CONSERVATION:
Value of bio-diversity, Bio-geographical classification of India – India as a mega diversity
habitat. Threats to bio-diversity –Hot-spots, habitat loss, poaching of wild life, loss of species,
seeds, etc. Conservation of bio-diversity – In-situ and Ex-situ conservation.
UNIT II
NATURAL RESOURCES:
Classification of Resources, Land resources, Common property resources, Land degradation,
Soil erosion and desertification, Effects of modern agriculture- fertilizer, pesticide problems.
Forest resources - Use and over-exploitation. food resources, food miles.
MINING AND DAMS:
benefits & effects. Water resources-Use and over - utilization of surface and groundwater,
Floods, droughts, Water logging and salinity, Conflicts over Water. Energy resources.
50
UNIT III
ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION AND ITS CONTROL:
Classification of pollution and pollutants. Air pollution-Causes, Effects, Control measures,
ambient air quality standards. water pollution-causes, effects, control measures, water quality
standards, Marine pollution- causes, effects & control measures. noise pollution-causes,
effects and control measures. land pollution causes, effects and control measures, solid
waste management, e-waste management.
UNIT IV
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS AND GLOBAL EFFORTS:
Nuclear hazards, Nuclear Pollution, Global warming, Acid rains, ozone layer depletion, over
population, hazardous waste. Clean development mechanism, green building, carbon credits,
carbon trading.
INTERNATIONAL CONVENTIONS/PROTOCOLS:
UNEP, UNFCC, Earth summit, Kyoto protocol, Montreal protocol and Stockholm declaration.
UNIT V
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY, LEGISLATION, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
National Environmental Policy. Environmental Protection act, Legal aspects Air (Prevention
anc Control of pollution ) Act- 1981, Water( Prevention and Control of pollution ) Act-1974,
Water pollution Cess Act-1977, Forest Conservation Act, Municipal solid waste management
and handling rules, biomedical waste management and handling rules, hazardous waste
management and handling rules .
ECONOMY AND ENVIRONMENT:
The economy and environment interaction, Economics of development, preservation and
Conservation. Sustainability: theory and practices.
Environmental Impact Assessment, Rain water harvesting, cloud seeding and watershed
management.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Environmental Science by Y.Anjaneyulu, B S Publications, 2004.
2. Environmental studies by Deeksha dave, Cengage learning India Pvt. Ltd, 1st
edition, 2011.
3. Environmental Science and Technology by M. Anji Reddy, B S Publications, 2010.
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Environmental Studies for UG Courses, Bharucha Erach, UGC Publications, Delhi,
2004.
2. Environmental Encyclopedia by Cunningham, W.P., et al., Jaico Publishing House,
Mumbai, 2003.
3. Environmental sciences and Engineering by P.Venugopal Rao, PHI Learning Pvt.
Ltd.,
51
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
I Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS12) ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS AND LAPLACE TRANSFORMS
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, IT, EIE & AE)
Course prerequisites: Differentiation and Integration
Course Objectives:
• Understand the methods of solving first order differential equations and learn about
its applications to basic engineering problems.
• Understand the methods of solving higher order differential equations and learn
about its applications to basic engineering problems.
• Understand the method of series solutions of second order ordinary differential
equations.
• Apply the convolution theorem to evaluate Inverse Laplace Transform of the
functions.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Solve the problems in first order differential equations.
• Solve the problems in second order differential equations.
• Obtain the series solutions of second order ordinary differential equations.
• Learn Laplace Transform as a tool.
UNIT I
ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS OF FIRST ORDER AND THEIRAPPLICATIONS:
Differential equations of first order and first degree - Exact differential equation , Linear and
Bernoulli differential equation , Applications of differential equations of first order and first
degree - Newton’s law of cooling, Law of natural growth and decay, Orthogonal trajectories
and basic circuits(L-R Circuits, R-C Circuits).
UNIT II
DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS OF HIGHER ORDER AND THEIR APPLICATIONS:
Differential equations of higher order - homogeneous and non-homogenous type, differential
equations of second order and higher order with constant coefficients with right hand side
ax
term of the type e sin (ax), cos (ax), polynomials in x, e
52
a x
V(x), x V(x) and method of
variation of parameters, applications to spring mass system ,Simple harmonic motion and L-
C-R Circuits.
UNIT III
DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS WITH VARIABLE COEFFICIENTS:
Euler-Cauchy’s 2nd order differential equations, Series solutions of second order Ordinary
Differential Equations, Regular point, Regular singular point, Frobineous Method.
UNIT IV
LAPLACE TRANSFORMS:
Existence condition, Laplace transform of Elementary functions, Properties of Laplace
transforms, Laplace transform of special functions (Unit step function, Dirac delta function
and Periodic function).
UNIT V
INVERSE LAPLACE TRANSFORMS:
Inverse Laplace transform of functions using partial fractions, Convolution theorem
(statement only). Solving linear differential equations and Integro-differential eqations using
Laplace transform.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – B. S. Grewal,Khanna publishers.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa
Publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher: John
Wiley.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Peter V. O’Neil, 9th Edition; Publisher:
Cengage Learning.
3. A First Course in Differential Equations by Dennis G. Zill; Publisher: Brooks Cole
publiers.
53
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS22) PHYSICS OF MATERIALS
(Common to CE, ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: General Physics
Course Objectives:
• To learn basic structures and classifications of solids.
• To study nature of dielectric, magnetic and size dependent properties of materials.
• To visualize different kinds of materials in engineering and technology.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Identify different types of crystals, their defects and importance of X-ray studies in
crystals.
• recognize materials’ magnetic, dielectric and size dependent behavior.
• show case some applications of crystals and different kinds of materials in
engineering.
UNIT I
CRYSTAL STRUCTURES:
Space lattice, Unit cell, Lattice parameters, Crystal systems, Bravais lattice, Atomic radius,
Co-ordination number, Structures and Packing fractions of Simple Cubic, Body Centered
Cubic, Face Centered Cubic, Hexagonally closed packed & Diamond Cubic Crystals.
BONDING IN SOLIDS:
Force and energy between two approaching atoms, primary and secondary bonds, binding
energy and cohesive energy, Madelung constant, cohesive energy and Madelung constant
for NaCl crystal
UNIT II
DIRECTIONS, PLANES AND X-RD:
Miller Indices for Crystal planes and directions, Inter planar spacing of orthogonal crystal
systems, Diffraction of X-rays by crystal planes and Bragg’s law, Laue method, Powder
method.
DEFECTS IN SOLIDS:
Imperfections in crystals, Point defects (Vacancies, Interstitial and Impurities) Schottky and
Frenkel defects (with mathematical treatment), Line imperfections, Edge and Screw
dislocation, Burger vector, Surface defects and volume defects (Qualitative Treatment).
54
UNIT III
MAGNETIC PROPERTIES OF MATERIALS:
Permeability, Field intensity, magnetic field induction, Magnetization and Magnetic
susceptibility – Origin of magnetic moment, Bohr magneton – Classification of magnetic
materials (Dia, Para and Ferro)- Domain theory of ferromagnetism, Hysteresis curve – Soft
and Hard magnetic materials – Ferrites and their applications.
UNIT IV
DIELECTRIC PROPERTIES:
Electric dipole, Dipole moment, Dielectric constant, Electronic, Ionic and Orientation
Polarization – Calculation of Polarizibilities, Internal fields, Claussius – Mossotti equation,
Piezo and Ferro electricity.
SUPERCONDUCTORS:
Experimental survey and superconductivity phenomenon, Meissner effect, Critical fields and
Persistent currents, Type I and Type II superconductors, London equations, flux quantization,
Applications of Superconductors.
UNIT V
SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY OF NANOMATERIALS:
Work function, Thermionic emission, Contact Potential, Electron Microscope, Scanning
Tunneling Microscope. Origin of nano science, (Basic principles of Nanoscience &
Technology) surface to volume ratio, quantum confinement, Fabrication of nano materials,
Bottom up fabrication: sol-gel & combustion methods, Top down fabrication: CVD& PVD
methods, Applications of nanotechnology.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel (Publishers: John Wiley &
Sons)
2. Applied Physics by P.K.Mittal, IK International Publishing House (P) Ltd
REFERENCES:
1. Solid State Physics by A.J.Dekker; Macmillan Publishers India Lt.
2. Engineering Physics by G Sahashra Buddhe; University Press
3. Elements of Solid State Physics by J.P.Srivatsva, PHI Publishers
4. Engineering Physics by M.R.Srinivasan, New Age Publishers
5. Solid State Physics by M.A. Wahab.
55
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS32) ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, IT, EIE & AE)
Pre-requisites: Basic knowledge of mathematics and chemistry.
Course Learning Objectives
• Understanding the concept of generating electricity by batteries.
• Conceptual knowledge of corrosion science.
• Acquiring the knowledge of preparation, properties and usage of polymers.
• Applying the concept of hardness to analyze various boiler troubles in the steam
generation.
• Familiarize the features of carbon nanotubes, composites and self- healing
materials.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Interpret the chemical applications of the various types of batteries used in the
present day world.
• Acquire the knowledge of corrosion for protecting structures and safeguarding the
economy.
• Evaluate the suitability of various polymers for different applications.
• Analyze and compare the different softening techniques of water.
• Summarize the applications of carbon nanotubes, composites and self- healing
materials.
UNIT I
BATTERIES AND FUEL CELLS:
Electrochemistry-definition, types of cells- differences between electrolytic and
electrochemical cells, conditions of reversibility, principle of batteries, Primary cells-(Dry cell,
Mercury battery) and secondary cells -lead-acid cell; Ni-Cd cell; lithium- ion cells
(intercalated); Fuel cells : methanol – oxygen fuel cell, advantages of fuel cells; Solar cells -
principle and applications.
UNIT II
CORROSION AND ITS CONTROL:
Introduction; Causes and effects of corrosion; Theories of corrosion – chemical and
electrochemical corrosion (reactions); Types of corrosion ( Differential aeration corrosion:
pitting, crevice and waterline corrosion, Differential metal corrosion: galvanic corrosion) ;
Factors affecting corrosion – nature of metal (position of metal in galvanic series-differences
between electrochemical & galvanic series; passivity; purity of metal; nature of oxide film;
56
nature of corrosion product), and nature of environment (effect of temperature; effect of pH;
humidity; formation of oxygen concentration cells).
Corrosion control methods – cathodic protection-sacrificial anode and impressed current
cathodic protection.
Surface coatings –differences between galvanizing and tinning; cladding; electroplating
(copper plating), Paints - constituents and functions.
UNIT III
POLYMERS:
PLASTICS: Thermoplastic resins, and Thermosetting resins, fabrication of plastics –
compression, injection. Preparation, properties, and engineering applications of PE, PVC,
Teflon, Bakelite, Nylon and Kevlar.
RUBBER: Processing and vulcanization, preparation, properties, and engineering
applications of Buna-S; Butyl rubber and Thiokol rubber.
UNIT IV
WATER AND ITS TREATMENT:
Introduction; Hardness - causes, expression of hardness, units, types of hardness, numerical
problems. Estimation of temporary & permanent hardness of water by EDTA method (no
numerical problems). Boiler troubles - scale & sludge formation, caustic embrittlement, boiler
corrosion, priming & foaming. Softening of water by zeolite and ion exchange process (no
numerical problems), Desalination processes - reverse osmosis.
UNIT V
SMART MATERIALS:
NANOMATERIALS: Introduction; preparation and applications of nanomaterials with special
reference to carbon nanotubes.
Composites-Need for composites, classification based on reinforcing material (Fiber
reinforced composites –glass, carbon and aramid), applications of composites.
SELF-HEALING MATERIALS: Definition, features, principle of self-healing materials and
their applications.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by Y.Bharathi Kumari, Jyotsna Cherukuri;
Publisher: VGS Book Links.
2. Engineering Chemistry by P.C.Jain & Monica Jain, Publisher: Dhanpatrai
Publishing Company.
REFERENCES:
1. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by S.S. Dhara & Mukkanti; Publisher:
S.Chand & Co.
2. Engineering Chemistry by O G Palanna; McGraw Hill Edu.Pvt.Ltd.
3. Text Book of Engineering Chemistry by R.Gopalan, D.Venkappayya, Sulochana
Nagarajan; Publisher: Vikas Publishers.
4. Engineering Chemistry by R.P.Mani, S.N. Mishra, B.Rama Devi, Cengage Learning
Publications.
57
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech (Common to all branches) L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS01) ENGLISH
Introduction
This is the age of information and communication technologies. Engineers and technical
professionals need to convey technical information in English for various purposes.
Besides learning general English as an international language, engineering students need to be
equipped with adequate writing ability so that they can communicate technical information clearly
on at least a basic level. A good English writing proficiency can be a contributing factor to
professional recognition and career prospects. This course teaches those writing strategies that
scientists, engineers, and others will need in order to write successfully on the job. It initiates the
students into Technical Writing. The purposes of technical writing are to inform and persuade. This
program aims to train students in writing clear, concise and effective English and also develop their
reading skills.
This Syllabus is therefore, a Pragmatic English Writing and Reading Program for engineering
students with intermediate proficiency. The program covers a syllabus outline and instructional
approaches on basic writing and reading skills with particular reference to technical writing.
Course Objectives:
• To equip the students with all the LSRW skills for academic writing and speaking.
• To equip the students with basic grammar, infrastructural patterns, reading techniques
and grammatical constructions required in technical writing as well as oral
communication.
• To acquaint the students with the writing process in preparation for academic and
workplace writing.
• Equip the students with the concept of coherence and cohesion for meaningful and
coherent communication.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
• Comprehend technical writing produced in the engineering profession
• Understand the writing process and create logical paragraphs
• Use infrastructural patterns in writing and speaking
• Students communicate coherently orally and in writing.
Methodology
A Task-based, process oriented methodology will be used by the teachers to give a practical
orientation to the teaching of language. An inductive approach will be used to demonstrate the use
of language in context. This should enable the students to internalize the language structures and
vocabulary used in context. Students will be exposed to numerous examples and ample practice
will be given in the contextual use of language structures.
Unit I : Review of Grammar
i) Common Errors v) Use of Articles and Prepositions
ii) Subject-Verb Agreement vi) Conjunctions
iii) Adverbs vii) pronoun reference
iv) Transitional elements
58
Unit II : Prose 1
• Heaven’s Gate by Pico Iyer
• The Connoisseur by Nergis Dalal
Unit III : Reading and Writing Skills
• Reading Comprehension -- Skimming & scanning
• Reading Comprehension -- Intensive & extensive reading
• Paragraph Writing
• Letter Writing
• Memo Writing
Unit IV : Prose 2
• The Cuddalore Experience by Anu George
• The Odds Against Us by Satyajit Ray
Unit V : Writing Skills
1. Comparison and Contrast Pattern
2. Cause and Effect Pattern
3. Classification
4. Analogy (Introductory Level)
5. Problem-Solution Pattern
TEXT BOOKS
• Enjoying Everyday English by A. Ramakrishna Rao
• Effective Technical Communication by Ashraf Rizvi
• Technical Writing Process and Product by Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson 3rd
edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
References
• M. Raman and S. Sharma, 2004; Technical Communication : Principles and Practices,
OUP, (Indian Edition)
• Blanton, L.L. 1993; Composition Practice, Book 4 ,Second Edition, Heinle & Heinle
Publishers, pp. 54
Georges, T.M. 1996; A course in Analytical Writing for Science and Technology,
http://www.mspiggy.etl.noaa.gov/write/
59
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5CE02) ENGINEERING MECHANICS – II
(Common to CE, ME & AE)
Course Prerequisite: Physics, Mathematics, Engineering Mechanics – I
Course Objectives:
• Understand the assumptions in the analysis of trusses and list the types of trusses.
• Understand the principle of virtual work and its applications.
• Distinguish between statics and dynamics & kinematics and kinetics
• Understand the work-energy principle and impulse-momentum principle.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Determine the member forces in trusses using method of joints and method of
sections.
• Apply virtual work principle to beams, ladder and rod problems to determine the
unknown forces
• Solve the kinematics and kinetics problems.
• Apply work-energy principle to solve the rigid body problems
UNIT I
TRUSSES:
Types of frames – Analysis of pin jointed frames – Assumptions - Method of Joints - Method
of Sections - Force table - Cantilever Trusses - Trusses with one end hinged and the other
freely supported on rollers carrying horizontal or inclined loads.
UNIT II
VIRTUAL WORK:
Concept of virtual work - Principle of virtual work - Application of principle of virtual work to
beams - ladders and framed structures
UNIT III
KINEMATICS:
Kinematics of particles – Kinematics of Rectilinear motion – Kinematics of Curvilinear motion
– Projectiles – Kinematics of rigid bodies about a fixed axis
60
UNIT IV
KINETICS:
Kinetics of particles – Newton’s Second Law – Differential equations of rectilinear and
curvilinear motion – Dynamic equilibrium – Inertia force - D’ Alembert’s Principle applied for
rectilinear and curvilinear motion - Kinetics of rigid bodies
UNIT V
WORK–ENERGY, IMPULSE–MOMENTUM:
Work of a force - Principle of Work and Energy - Application of principle of Work-Energy -
Impulse-Momentum Principle, Application of Impulse - Momentum principle to connected
bodies
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Mechanics by S.Timoshenko, D.H.Young & J.V.Rao, Tata McGraw
Hill Publishers,4th Edition,2010
2. Singer’s Engineering Mechanics by K. Vijaya Kumar Reddy & J. Suresh kumar ,
B.S Publishers,3rd Edition,2011
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Mechanics by S.S. Bhavikatti, Newage International Publishers,2012
2. Engineering Mechanics (Dynamics) by J.L.Meriam & L.G.Kraige, Wiley Publishers,
6th Edition,2006
3. Engineering Mechanics by A.K.Tayal, Umesh Publications,13th Edition,2010
4. Engineering Mechanics by R.K. Rajput, laxmi Publications,1998
61
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
0 6 3
(5ME52) ENGINEERING GRAPHICS – II
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Graphics –I
Course Objectives:
• Learn the concepts of section of solids, development of surfaces
• Understand and remember the intersection of various solids
• Know the various types of projections- orthographic to isometric and vice-versa
• Understand and remember the principles of perspective projections
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply the concepts of sections and solve the problems on attaining true shape of
section and obtain the development of surfaces of various solids using AutoCAD
• Solve the problems on intersection of solids like prismvs prism,cylindervs cylinder
and cylinder vs cone, using AutoCAD
• Apply the concepts of isometric projections and solve the problems in Auto CAD
• Apply the concepts of perspective projections and solve the problems in Auto CAD
UNIT I
SECTIONS AND SECTIONAL VIEWS:
Sections of right regular solids-prisms, pyramids, cylinders and cones – auxiliary views.
DEVELOPMENT OF SURFACES:
Development of surfaces of right regular solids prisms, pyramids, cylinders and cones.
UNIT II
INTERSECTION OF SOLIDS:
Intersection of prism vs prism, cylinder vs prism, cylinder vs cylinder and cylinder vs cone.
UNIT III
ISOMETRIC PROJECTIONS:
Principles of isometric projections, isometric scale, isometric views, conventions, isometric
views of lines, planes, simple and compound solids, isometric views of objects having
spherical parts.
62
UNIT IV
TRANSFORMATION OF PROJECTIONS:
Conversion of isometric views to orthographic views - conventions for simple objects.
Construction of orthographic projections for given isometric projections.
UNIT V
PERSPECTIVE PROJECTIONS:
Perspective view of points, lines, plane figures and simple solids, vanishing point method and
visual ray method.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Elementary Engineering Drawing by N.D.Bhat; Publisher: Charotar Publishing
House.
2. Engineering Drawing by K.L. Narayana and P. Kannaiah; Publisher: Scitech
Publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Graphics for degree by K.C. John; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
63
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5ME53) IT AND ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, IT, EIE & AE)
Course Prerequisites: basic knowledge about different Trades, computer hardware,
Operating System, different trades in mechanical engineering.
Course Objectives:
• To study/demonstrate the concepts of computer w.r.t. it’s hardware.
• To install the operating system and perform various tasks
• To conduct the experiments related to production engineering technology.
• To demonstrate the usage of power tools, CNC lathe and machine shop for
different exercises
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Identify, assemble and dissemble the given configuration of a computer.
• Install the operating system in the given configuration of a computer and execute
commands for LINUX Operating System
• To develop components using the techniques of carpentry, tin smithy, forging, etc.
listed in trades for exercises.
• To work out the given models in machine shop and CNC lathe.
IT WORKSHOP
1. Computer Hardware: Identification of Peripherals
2. Study of UPS and SMPS
3. Assembling and disassembling of a PC
4. Simple diagnostic exercises – Related to hardware
5. Installation of Windows Operating System
6. Installation of Linux Operating System
7. Linux Basic Commands
8. Simple diagnostic exercises –Related to Operating System
TEXTBOOKS:
1. IT Essentials PC Hardware and Software Companion Guide Third Edition by Davis
Anfinson and Ken Quamme CISC Press, Pearson Education.
2. PC Hardware and A+ Handbook – Kate J. Chase PHI (Microsoft)
64
ENGINEERING WORKSHOP
TRADES FOR EXCERCISES
At least two exercises from each trade:
1. Carpentry
2. Tin-Smithy
3. Fitting
4. Welding
5. Electrical Wiring
TRADES FOR DEMONSTRATION and EXPOSURE:
1. Power tools in construction, wood working, electrical engineering and mechanical
engineering.
2. Machine shop.
3. CNC Lathe.
4. 3D Printing.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Workshop Manual by P.Kannaiah and K.L.Narayana; Publisher: Scitech.
65
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
I Year B. Tech (Common to all branches) L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS02) ENGLISH LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
The English Language Communication Skills Lab aims to provide practice in all the four skills
of LSRW, with a special emphasis on listening and speaking skills.
Course Objectives:
• Provide ample practice in LSRW skills and train the students in oral presentations,
public speaking, role play and situational dialogue.
• Provide practice in word usage, grammatical construction, structural patterns, and
improve comprehension abilities in the students.
• Train students to use neutral pronunciation through phonetic sounds, symbols,
stress and intonation.
• Enable students to transfer information from verbal to graphic representation and
vice versa.
Course Outcomes:
After going through this course the student will be able to
• Comprehend spoken and written discourse.
• Speak fluently with neutral pronunciation and exhibit interpersonal skills.
• Write accurately, coherently and lucidly making appropriate use of words depending
on context and present data clearly.
• Introduce oneself to people and be able to speak extempore.
UNIT I
Computer Aided Language Lab:
• Grammar : Nouns and Pronouns; Articles; The Present Tense
• Vocabulary: Lesson 1
• Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: Introduction of Self and others
UNIT II
Computer Aided Language Lab:
1. Grammar: Concord; Adjectives; The Past Tense
2. Vocabulary: Lesson 2
3. Listening Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Seeking and Giving Information, Giving and Taking Instructions
UNIT III
Computer Aided Language Lab:
Grammar --- Adverbs, Conjunctions, Prepositions; The Future Tense
• Vocabulary: Lesson 3
• Telephoning Skills
Communication Skills Lab: Role Play/ Situational Dialogues
66
UNIT IV
Computer Aided Language Lab:
1. Grammar ---- Active and Passive Voice
2.Vocabulary: Lesson 4
3. Listening Comprehension
Communication Skills Lab: i) JAM/ Short Talk ii) Information Transfer a) Interpretation of
Graph
UNIT V
Computer Aided Language Lab:
1. Introduction to Technical Writing
A. Definition of a Technical Term
B. Description of a Mechanism
C. Description of a Technical Process
2. Vocabulary: Lesson 5
Communication Skills Lab : Presentation Skills: Oral Presentation
Computer Aided Language Lab Requirements:
The English Language Lab shall have two parts:
i) The Computer aided Language Lab for 30 students with 30 systems, one master
console, LAN facility and English language software for self- study by
learners.
ii) The Communication Skills Lab with conference tables and movable chairs for 30
students and audio-visual aids with a P.A System, a T. V., a digital stereo –audio &
video system and a camcorder
• System Requirement (Hardware component):
Computer network with Lan with 30 multimedia systems with the following
specifications:
• P – IV Processor
• Speed – 2.8 GHZ
• RAM – 512 MB Minimum
• Hard Disk – 80 GB
• Headphones of High quality
iv) Suggested Resources:
Software consisting of the prescribed topics elaborated above may be procured
and used. Additionally, the abundantly available online resources may also be used.
List of suggested software:
• Tense Busters (5 Levels)
• Walden Educare
• Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 7th Edition
• DELTA’s key to the Next Generation TOEFL Test: Advanced Skill
Practice.
• Lingua TOEFL CBT Insider, by Dreamtech
• TOEFL & GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO & BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE
by CLIFFS)
67
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS14) PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS WITH APPLICATIONS AND COMPLEX
ANALYSIS
(Common to EEE, ME & AE)
Course prerequisites: Differentiation, integration
Course Objectives:
• Compute Fourier coefficients.
• Understand the properties of Fourier transforms.
• Apply Method of Separation of Variables to solve Partial Differential Equations.
• Apply Cauchy theorem, Cauchy’s Integral formula and Residue theorem to evaluate
complex integration.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Solve problems using Fourier series.
• Evaluate problems involving Fourier and Inverse Fourier transforms.
• Solve the second order linear partial differential equations by Method of Separation
of Variables and Fourier series.
• Evaluate line and Contour integrals.
UNITI
STANDARD PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS:
Introduction to partial differential equations, Method of seperation of variables, Applications:
Problems of vibrating string- wave equation, Problems of one-dimensional heat equation,
Problems of steady state two dimensional heat flow-Laplace equation.
UNIT II
FOURIER SERIES:
Fourier Series of periodic functions, Euler’s formulae, Fourier series of even and odd
functions, having arbitrary periods, half range Fourier series.
UNIT III
FOURIER TRANSFORMS: Fourier transform, Sine and Cosine transforms and their
properties.
68
UNIT IV
FUNCTIONS OF A COMPLEX VARIABLE:
Functions of a complex variable, Continuity, Differentiability, Analyticity, Cauchy-Riemann
equations in Cartesian and polar coordinates, Harmonic and conjugate harmonic functions,
Milne – Thompson method.
UNIT V
INTEGRATION OF COMPLEX FUNCTION, POWER SERIES AND RESIDUES:
Line integral, evaluation along a path and by indefinite integration.Cauchy’s Integral theorem,
Cauchy’s Integral formula.Expansion of Taylor’s series and Laurent series (without proofs).
Singular point, Isolated singular point, pole of order m , essential singularity. Residues –
Evaluation of residue by formulae, Residue theorem, Evaluation of real integrals.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Higher Engineering Mathematics – B. S. Grewal,Khanna publishers.
2. Complex Variables & Its Applications- Churchill and Brown, (1996), International
Edition, McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Advance Engineering Mathematics - Peter O’Neil,(2000),5th Edition, Cengage
Learning.
2. Schaum’s Outline Of Complex Variables - Murray.R.Spiegel,(2011), 2nd Edition,
Tata McGraw Hill.
69
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5ME01) MECHANICS OF SOLIDS
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Physics and Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives:
• List and define the Material properties and show the relationships between them.
• Describe principles of Mechanics, Stress and Strain.
• Demonstrate throughly the concepts of principal stresses applied to solid structural
members and mohr’s circle diagram.
• Analyse various types of mechanical engineering problems concern to bending of
beams, torsion of shafts etc.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Show basic stress strain equations with appropriate assumptions.
• Interpret model and analyze solid mechanics problems on bars,beams and shafts.
• Apply the concepts of principal stresses in real life design issues
• Analyse and develop beams, shats for various applications
UNIT I
TENSION, COMPRESSION, AND SHEAR:
Introduction; Normal Stress and Strain; Stress-strain diagrams; Elasticity and plasticity;
Linear elasticity and Hooke’s law; Allowable stress and allowable loads.
AXIALLY LOADED MEMBERS:
Introduction; Deflections of axially loaded members; Strain energy; Dynamic loading.
THERMAL STRESSES:
UNIT II
SHEAR FORCE AND BENDING MOMENT DIAGRAMS:
Types of beams; Types of loading; Shear force and bending moment; Relationship between
load, shear force and bending moment; Shear force and bending moment diagrams.
TORSION:
Introduction; Torsion of circular bars; Non uniform torsion; Pure shear; Relationship between
modulus of elasticity E and G; Transmission of power by circular shafts.
70
UNIT III
Area moment of inertia of composite sections.
STRESSES IN BEAMS:
Introduction; Normal strains in beams; Normal stresses in beams; Cross-sectional shapes of
beams-C, angular and semicircle structures; Shear stresses in rectangular beams; Shear
stress in webs of beams with flanges; Shear stress in circular beams (solid and hollow
sections); Concept of shear center and shear flow.
UNIT IV
ANALYSIS OF STRESS AND STRAIN:
Introduction; Plane stress; Principal stresses and maximum shear stresses; Mohr’s circle for
plane stress; Hooke’s law for plane stress; Spherical and cylindrical pressure vessels (biaxial
stress; Hoop and longitudinal stresses); Combined loadings (plane stress); Principal stresses
in beams.
UNIT V
DEFLECTIONS OF BEAMS:
Introduction; Differential equations of the deflection curve; Deflections by integration of the
bending moment equation; Deflections by integration of the shear-force and load equations;
Macaulay’s method; Moment area method; Method of superposition.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Mechanics of Materials (SI units) by J.M.Gere and S.P.Timoshenko; Publisher:
CBS Publishers.
2. Strength of Materials by S. S. Rattan, Publisher: Tata McGraw-Hill Education.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Mechanics of Solids by Popov; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Strength of Materials Schaum’s Series.
71
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5ME02) THERMODYNAMICS
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Physics
Course Objectives:
• To apply the basic concepts of thermodynamics and Thermodynamic Laws for
various thermodynamic systems
• To Evaluate the properties of pure substance and to analyse the concept of
irreversibility and availability.
• To apply the basic concept of power cycles for External combustion engines and
internal combustion engines.
• To Evaluate the behaviour of ideal gas mixtures and Thermodynamic properties.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• To apply the basic concepts of thermodynamics and Thermodynamic Laws for
various thermodynamic systems
• To evaluate the properties of pure substance and to analyse the concept of
irreversibility and availability.
• To apply the basic concept of power cycles for External combustion engines and
internal combustion engines.
• Evaluate the behaviour of ideal gas mixtures and Thermodynamic properties of the
given mixture of gases.
UNIT I
CONCEPTS AND DEFINITIONS:
Thermodynamic system and control volume; Macroscopic versus microscopic point of view;
Properties and state of a substance; Processes and cycles, Energy, Specific volume and density,
Equality of temperature; The Zeroth law of thermodynamics; Temperature scales.
WORK AND HEAT:
Definition of work; Units for work; Work done at the moving boundary of a simple compressible
system; Other systems that involve work; Definition of heat; Heat transfer modes; Comparison of heat
and work.
THE FIRST LAW OF THERMODYNAMICS:
The first law of thermodynamics for a control mass undergoing a cycle; The first law of
72
thermodynamics for a change in state of a control mass; Internal energy-a thermodynamic property;
Problem analysis and solution technique; Enthalpy; The constant-volume and constant-pressure
specific heats; The internal energy, enthalpy, and specific heat of ideal gases; The first law as a rate
equation.
FIRST LAW ANALYSIS FOR A CONTROL VOLUME:
Conversion of mass and the control volume, The first law of thermodynamics for a control volume, The
steady-state process; Examples of steady-state processes.
UNIT II
THE SECOND LAW OF THERMODYNAMICS:
Heat engines and refrigerators; The second law of thermodynamics; The reversible process; Factors
that render processes irreversible; The Carnot cycle; Two propositions regarding the efficiency of
a Carnot cycle; The thermodynamic temperature scale; The ideal-gas temperature scale; Ideal
versus real machines.
ENTROPY FOR A CONTROL MASS:
The inequality of Clausius; Entropy — a property of a system; The entropy of a pure
substance; Entropy change in reversible processes; The thermodynamic property relation;
Entropy change of an ideal gas; The reversible polytropic process for an ideal gas; Entropy
change of a control mass during an irreversible process; Entropy generation; Principle of increase
of entropy; Entropy as a rate equation.
UNIT III
IRREVERSIBILITY AND AVAILABILITY:
Available energy; Available energy Referred to a cycle; Quality of energy; Maximum work in a
reversible process; reversible work by an open system; Exchanging heat only with the
surroundings; Useful work; Dead state; Availability; Availability in chemical reaction;
Irreversibility and Gouy-stodola Theorem; Availability or Exergy Balance; second law
efficiency;
PROPERTIES OF A PURE SUBSTANCE:
The pure substance; Vapor- liquid- solid- phase equilibrium in a pure substance; Independent
properties of a pure substance; Steam Tables; Thermodynamic surfaces; The compressibility
factor; Equations of state.
UNIT IV
POWER CYCLES:
Introduction to power systems; The Rankine cycle; Effect of pressure and temperature on the
Rankine cycle; Air-standard power cycles; Basic Brayton cycle; The air-standard cycle for jet
propulsion; Reciprocating engine power cycles; The Otto cycle; The Diesel cycle; The Dual
cycle, The Sterling cycle; The Atkinson and Miller cycles.
73
UNIT V
IDEAL GAS REAL GAS:
Ideal Gas;Real Gas; Internal Energy and Enthalpy of an Ideal Gas; Specific Heats of an ideal
gas; Equations of state; Virial Expansions; Law of Corresponding states; Boyle Temperature;
Dalton’s Law of Partial Pressures; Thermodynamic Properties of Gas Mixtures; Gibbs Function
of Ideal Gas Mixtures
THERMODYNAMIC PROPERTY RELATIONS:
Mathematical relations for a homogeneous phase; The Maxwell relations; Thermodynamic
relations involving enthalpy, internal energy, and entropy; The Clapeyron equation; Joule-
Thompson coefficient; Real gas behavior and equations of state.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Thermodynamics by P.K. Nag, Publisher: McGraw-Hill
2. Engineering Thermodynamics by P.Chattopadhyay,Oxford University Press
REFERENCES:
1. Fundamentals of Thermodynamics by C. Borgnakke, R.E. Sonntag, and
G.J. Van Wylen; Publisher John Wiley.
2. Engineering Thermodynamics by Burgadt, Harper & Row Publication.
3. Thermodynamics — An engineering approach by Yunus Cengel and Boles;
Publisher: TMH.
74
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5ME03) METALLURGY AND MATERIAL SCIENCE
(Common to ME, & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics and Chemistry
Course Objectives:
• Understand the microstructures of different types of metal and alloys –cast iron,
steels, non ferrous metal and alloys.
• Understand the heat treatment principles-annealing, normalizing and hardening.
• Understand the different types of tools.
• Able to understand the importance of Titanium & its alloys.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Distinguish different types of metals and alloys.
• Design a heat treatment process to change the properties-hardness, ductility, etc.
• Analyze the failure of metals and alloys.
• Explain & justify the usage of Titanium & its alloys.
UNIT I
METAL STRUCTURE AND CRYSTALLIZATION:
Introduction - atom binding, ionic bond, covalent bond, metallic bond, and Vander Waals
forces; Crystal imperfections.
OVERVIEW OF METAL STRUCTURE AND CRYSTALLIZATION. CONSTITUTION OF
ALLOYS:
Introduction; Classification of alloys or compounds; Pure metal; Intermediate alloy phase or
compound - intermetallic compounds or valency compounds, interstitial compounds, and
electron compounds; Solid solutions; Substitution solid solution - factors that control the
range of solubility in alloy system; Interstitial solid solutions.
UNIT II
PHASE DIAGRAMS:
Introduction; Coordinates of phase diagrams; Experimental methods - construction of
equilibrium diagrams by thermal analysis, metallographic methods, and X-ray diffraction;
75
Type-I-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid and solid states; Chemical composition of
phases; relative amounts of each phase; Equilibrium cooling of a solid solution alloy;
Diffusion; Nonequilibrium cooling; Homogenization; Properties of solid-solution alloys;
Variation of Type I; Type II-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid state and completely
insoluble in the solid state; Type III-Two metals completely soluble in the liquid state but only
partly soluble in the solid state; Properties of eutectic alloy systems; Age hardening – solution
treatment, and aging process; Type IV-The congruent-melting intermediate phase; Type V-
The peritectic reaction; Type VI-Two liquids partly soluble in the liquid state: the monotectic
reaction; Type VII-two metals insoluble in the liquid and solid states; Interrelation of basic
types;
Transformations in the solid state - allotropy, order-disorder transformation, the eutectoid
reaction, the peritectoid reaction, and complex diagrams;
Study of important binary phase diagrams of Cu-Ni, Al-Si, Sb-Pb, Pt-Ag, Bi-Cd, Cu-Pb, Cu-Sn
and Fe- Fe C.
3
UNIT III
THE HEAT TREATMENT OF STEEL:
Introduction; Full Annealing; Spheroidizing; Stress-relief annealing; Process annealing;
Normalizing; Hardening; The isothermal transformation diagram; Transformation to Pearlite
and Bainite; Cooling curves and I-T Diagram; Transformation on continuous cooling; Position
of the I-T curves; Hardening or austenitizing temperature; Homogeneity of austenite;
Mechanism of heat removal during quenching - vapor-blanket cooling state (stage A), vapor
transport cooling stage (stage B), Liquid cooling stage (stage C); Quenching medium;
Temperature of quenching medium; Surface condition - methods to minimize the formation of
scale - copper plating, protective atmosphere, liquid-salt pots, and cast-iron chips; Size and
Mass; Hardenability; Use of Hardenability data; Tempering; Austempering; Surface heat
treatment or case hardening; Carburizing; Heat treatment after carburizing; Cyaniding and
Carbonitriding; Nitriding; Flame hardening; Induction Hardening; Residual Stresses;
Hardenable carbon steels; Effect of cryogenic heat treatment – A brief study.
UNIT IV
ALLOY STEELS:
Introduction; Purpose of alloying; Effect of alloying elements upon Ferrite; Effect of alloying
elements upon carbide; Influence of alloying elements on the iron-iron carbide diagram;
Effect of alloying elements in tampering; Classification of steels - nickel steel, chromium steel,
nickel-chromium steels, manganese steels, molybdenum steels, tungsten steels, vanadium
steels, silicon steels, stainless steels, martensitic stainless steels, ferritic stainless steels,
austenitic stainless steels, precipitation-hardening stainless steels, maraging steels, and
ausforming.
76
TOOL STEELS:
Classification of tool steels; Selection of tool steels; Comparative properties; Non-deforming
properties; Depth of hardening; Toughness; Wear resistance; Red-hardness; Machinability;
Resistance to decarburization; Brand names; Water-hardening tool steels (Group W); Shock
resisting tool steels (Group S); Cold-work tool steels; Hot-work tool steels (Group H); High
speed tool steels; Mold Steels (Group P); Special purpose tool steels; Heat treatment of tool
steels; Overview of tool failures;
Special cutting materials – satellites, cemented carbides, and ceramic tools.
UNIT V
CAST IRON:
Introduction; Types of cast iron; White cast iron; Malleable cast iron; Pearlitic malleable iron;
Gray cast iron; Silicon in cast iron; Sulfur in cast iron; Manganese in cast iron; Phosphorus in
cast iron; Heat treatment of grey iron, Size and distribution of graphite flakes; Mechanical
properties and applications of grey cast iron; Chilled cast iron; Nodular cast iron; Alloy cast
irons.
NON-FERROUS METALS AND ALLOYS:
Introduction; Copper and its alloys - Copper, temper designation of copper and copper alloys,
and copper alloys; Aluminum and its alloys - Aluminum, Alloy designation system, and
temper designation; Titanium and Titanium alloys.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Introduction to Physical Metallurgy by Sidney H. Avner; Publisher: McGraw-Hill.
2. Materials Science and Metallurgy by Kodigiri, publisher: Everest.
REFERENCES:
1. Essentials of Materials Science and Engineering by Donald R. Askeland and
Thomson.
2. Materials Science and Engineering by William and Collister.
3. Elements of Materials Science by V.Raghavan.
77
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5ME04) FLUID MECHANICS & HYDRAULIC MACHINES
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics and Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives:
• Understanding the properties of fluids, principles of buoyancy, flow, force and head
calculations.
• Evaluation of types of fluid flow , Laminar and dynamic
• Knowledge on boundary layer principles applied to aerofoiles.
• Principles of operation of different types of hydraulic machinery.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Analyzing the fluid properties to solve flow, force and velocity problems.
• Evaluating the flow characterizing in static and dynamic nature of flow
• Applying fluid flow and dynamics in solving problems in hydraulic machines.
• Understanding the model analysis of hydraulic machinery and select appropriate
machines for hydro power plant.
UNIT I
FLUID STATICS:
Properties of fluid – specific gravity, viscosity, surface tension, vapor pressure and their
influence on fluid motion, Pressure at a point, measurement of pressure, Forces on immersed
surfaces, Center of pressure, Buoyancy, Elements of stability of floating bodies.
FLUID KINEMATICS:
Classification of flows, acceleration equations, Stream line, path line and streak lines and
stream tube, continuity equation, Stream function, velocity potential function.
UNIT II
FLUID DYNAMICS:
Surface and body forces – Euler’s and Bernoulli’s equation, Venturimeter, Orifice meter, Pitot
tube, Reynolds experiment –Darcy Weisbach equation – Minor losses in pipes – pipes in
series and pipes in parallel. Momentum equation, force on pipe bend.
78
UNIT III
BOUNDARY LAYER THEORY:
Development of boundary layer along a thin flat plate, Laminar boundary layer and turbulent
boundary layer, Laminar sub layer, boundary layer separation, Drag and lift forces - Aerofoils,
pressure and form drags.
IMPACT OF JETS:
Hydrodynamic force of jets on flat, inclined and curved vanes - jet striking centrally and at tip,
flow over radial vanes.
UNIT IV
HYDRAULIC TURBINES:
Classification of turbines, design of Pelton wheel, Francis turbine and Kaplan turbine –
working proportion, work done, efficiency, draft tube- theory, functions and efficiency.
Geometric similarity, Unit and specific quantities, characteristic curves, governing of turbines,
selection of type of turbine, cavitation, surge tank and water hammer, elements of
hydropower plant.
UNIT V
HYDRAULIC PUMPS:
Classification, centrifugal pumps – types, working, work done, manometric head, losses and
efficiency, specific speed – pumps in series and parallel – performance characteristic curves,
NPSH, Reciprocating Pump – types, Working, Discharge, slip, indicator diagrams.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Hydraulics and Fluid Mechanics Including Hydraulics Machines: Dr. P.N.Modi, Dr.
S.M. Seth
2. Introduction to Fluid Mechanics, R. W. Fox, A. T. McDonald and P.J Pritchard.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Fluid Mechanics V. L. Streeter & E. B. Wylie.
2. Fluid Mechanics, fundamentals & applications - Yunus A. Çengel, John M. Cimbala.
3. Fluid Mechanics: F. M. White
4. Fundamentals of Fluid Mechanics: Bruce Roy Munson, Donald F. Young, Theodore
H. Okiishi, Wade W. Huebsch Wiley Publication.
79
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5ME54) METALLURGY AND MATERIAL SCIENCE LABORATORY
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Metallurgy and material science
Course Objectives:
• Understand the need of proper simplification for different materials.
• Understand the significance microstructure of different materials under
microscopic testing.
• Understand the changes in microstructures after different treatments.
• Understand the microstructure of cutting tool.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Identify materials for micro structure.
• Test microstructure of any given material and predict properties.
• Prepare appropriate heat treatment for a given material by checking its
microstructure.
• Examine the microstructure of cutting tool.
Metallurgy lab (Six experiments)
1. Preparation and study of the microstructure of metals like Iron, Cu and Al.
2. Preparation and study of the microstructure of mild steels, low carbon steels, and
high carbon steels.
3. Study of the microstructures of cast irons.
4. Study of the microstructures of non-ferrous alloys.
5. Study of the microstructures of heat treated steels.
6. Harden ability of steels by Jiminy end quench test.
7. To find out the hardness of various treated and untreated steels.
8. Study the microstructure of cutting tools.
9. study the micro structures of stainless steel.
10. study the different crystal structures of metals.
80
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5ME55) MECHANICS OF SOLIDS LABORATORY
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Mechanics of solids, Engineering Mechanics
Course Objectives:
• Analyze the various tests to be conducted on engineering materials.
• The significance of tests in evaluating the corresponding mechanical properties.
• Analyze the importance of technical parameters used during tests.
• Applying the concepts learned in the real time.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Applying the theoretical concepts by conducting the tests on different materials.
• Evaluate the result of test and comment on the mechanical properties of materials.
• Decide a material and an appropriate test suitable for given application.
• Analyze the significance of the tests in different fields of engineering.
Mechanics of Solids lab
1. Direct tension test
2. Bending tests:
a) Simple supported beam
b) Cantilever beam
3. Torsion test
4. Hardness test
a) Brunel hardness test
b) Rockwell hardness test
5. Test on springs
6. Compression test on a cube
7. Impact test
8. Punch shear test
9. Mechanical advantage :
(a) Simple screw jack
(b) Compound screw jack
10. Moment of Inertia of a fly wheel
11. To Study various types of Strain Gauges
81
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5ME56) FLUID MECHANICS AND HYDRAULIC MACHINES LABORATORY
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Fluid Mechanics& Hydraulic Machines course
Course Objectives:
• Analyzing the experiments to understand the concept, find the values and obtain
the result of experiments.
• Apply fundamental principles of fluid mechanics for the solution of practical
mechanical engineering problems of water conveyance in pipes, orifices, mouth
pieces, notches & weirs.
• Analyzing various pumps, water turbines, pipes and pressure measurement
devices.
• Evaluating efficiency for pumps and turbines.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• To apply fundamental equations of fluid mechanics for turbines and pumps
• Model and analyse fluid flow problems in mechanical engineering.
• To create a model of fluid flow equipments.
• Evaluate the experimental results with theoretical concepts.
Any 10 experiments to be conducted from the following:
1. Verification of Bernoulli’s theorem
2. Calibration of Venturimeter/ Orifice meter.
3. Calibration of t notches.
4. Determination of friction factor for a given pipe.
5. Determination of Minor losses for the given equipment
6. Impact of jets on vanes.
7. Performance test on Pelton wheel.
8. Performance test on Francis turbine.
9. Performance test on Kaplan turbine.
10. Performance test on single stage centrifugal pump.
11. Performance test on multi stage centrifugal pump.
12. Performance test on reciprocating pump.
82
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS13) COMPUTATIONAL METHODS
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, IT, EIE & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Elementary transformations of matrices, differentiation and
integration.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the numerical methods for non linear systems, evaluating definite
integrals and solving Ordinary Differential Equations.
• Understand various methods of interpolation and application.
• Understand the Echolen form and Normal form of a matrix and its applications in
solving linear system of equations.
• Solving system of linear equations using Jacobi and Gauss-Seidal methods.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Apply the numerical methods to find a root of algebraic and transcendental
equations.
• Apply the numerical methods to find the solutions of ordinary differential equations.
• Find the rank using Echelon form, Normal form and compute eigen values.
• Solve linear equations using Jacobi method and Gauss-Seidal method
UNIT I
SOLUTIONS OF NON-LINEAR SYSTEMS:
Introduction; Mathematical preliminaries; Solution of algebraic and transcendental equations
–bisection method, the method of false position, Fixed point iterative method , Newton -
Raphson method, and their order of convergence.
UNIT II
INTERPOLATION:
Introduction; Errors in polynomial interpolation; Finite differences; Forward differences;
Backward differences; Central differences; Symbolic relations and separation of symbols;
Differences of a polynomial; Newton’s formulae for interpolation; Central difference
interpolation formulae; Gauss’s central difference formulae and Lagrange’s interpolation
formulae.
UNIT III
NUMERICAL DIFFERENTIATION AND INTEGRATION:
Numerical differentiation based on interpolation, Numerical integration: Trapezoidal rule,
Simpson’s 1/3 rule, and Simpson’s 3/8 rule, Gaussian quadrature 2 & 3 point formulae.
83
NUMERICAL SOLUTIONS OF ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS:
Solution of initial value problems by Taylor’s series - Picard’s method of successive
approximations, Euler’s method, and Runge - Kutta methods.
UNIT IV
MATRICES:
Elementary Transformations, Rank of matrix, Echelon and Normal forms, Consistency of
linear simultaneous equations, Eigen values and eigen vectors and their properties, Caley –
Hamilton theorem (without proof), Quadratic forms - reduction of quadratic form to canonical
form by linear(congruent) and orthogonal transformations.
UNIT V
COMPLEX MATRICES AND ITERATIVE METHODS FOR REAL SYSTEMS:
Unitary, Hermitian and skew – Hermitian matrices. Iterative methods for solving a system of
linear equations (Jacobi method, Gauss-Seidal algorithm) and Power method to find largest
and smallest eigen values.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Numerical Methods in Engineering and Science–B.S. Grewal, 3rdedition Publisher:
Khanna Publishers.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by R.K.Jain and S.R.K.Iyengar; Narosa
Publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, 8th Edition; Publisher: John
Wiley and Sons.
2. Elementary Numerical Analysis – an algorithmic approach -Samuel D. Conte and
Carl De Boor (2006); 3rd edition; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill
84
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5BS41) BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, IT, EIE & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Basic knowledge about Economics, Finance and Business.
Course Objectives:
• To explain different forms of organizing private and public sector business
enterprises and to analyze the significance of Business Economics in solving the
problems of business enterprise. Also to define and analyze the concepts of
Demand, Elasticity of Demand and Demand Forecasting Methods.
• To analyze the various types of costs and to determine the level of output at which
there is neither profit nor loss. To estimate capital requirements and to describe
various sources of mobilizing funds. Also to identify least cost combinations of
inputs produce desired quantity of output.
• To describe the features of different market structure and pricing strategies.
• To explain the basic accounting concepts and conventions. To elaborate the
importance of finance function for evaluating the economic status of a business
unit.
Expected Course Outcomes for the Subject – BEFA
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Select the suitable form of business organization which meets the requirement of
selected business also perform decision – making function effectively in an
uncertain frame work by applying concepts of Managerial Economics. Meet and
manipulate the demand efficiently and plan the future course of action.
• Apply right kind cost to reduce cost by paying attention towards the costs which can
be reduced. Take decision whether to buy or produce? Reduce the cost of capital
by selecting best source of fund mobilization and select best investment opportunity
which yields higher rate of return.
• Fix the right price which can best meets the predetermined objectives of the
business firm under different market conditions. Able to select best combination of
inputs to produce required quantity of output.
• Prepare books of accounts and know over all financial position of the business
enterprise which enables the concerned to take appropriate measures to improve
the situation. Also interpret the financial position from difference angles and initiates
the measures/ efforts in that direction.
UNIT I
BUSINESS AND NEW ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT:
Characteristic features of business; Features and evaluation of sole proprietorship;
Partnership; Joint stock company; Public enterprises and their types; Changing business
environment in post- liberalization scenario.
85
UNIT II
INTRODUCTION TO BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND DEMAND ANALYSIS:
Definition; Nature and scope of managerial economics - demand analysis determinants; Law
of demand and its exceptions.
ELASTICITY OF DEMAND AND DEMAND FORECASTING:
Definition; Types; Measurement and significance of elasticity of demand; Demand
forecasting; Factors governing demand forecasting; Methods of demand forecasting - Survey
methods, statistical methods, Expert opinion method, Test marketing, Controlled
experiments, and Judgmental approach to demand forecasting.
UNIT III
COST ANALYSIS:
Cost concepts - Opportunity cost, Fixed vs. Variable costs, Explicit costs vs. Implicit costs,
and Out of pocket costs vs. Imputed costs; Break-even analysis (BEA) - determination of
break-even point (simple problems), managerial significance, and limitations of BEA.
CAPITAL AND CAPITAL BUDGETING:
Capital and its significance; Types of capital; Estimation of fixed and working capital
requirements; Methods and sources of raising finance.
Nature and scope of capital budgeting; Features of capital budgeting proposals; Methods of
capital budgeting - payback method, Accounting Rate of Return (ARR), and Net Present
Value method (simple problems)
UNIT IV
THEORY OF PRODUCTION:
Production function - isoquants and isocosts, least cost combination of inputs, and laws of
returns; Internal and external economies of scale.
MARKET STRUCTURES:
Types of competition; Features of perfect competition, Monopoly, and Monopolistic
competition; Price-output determination in case of perfect competition and Monopoly.
PRICING POLICIES AND METHODS:
Cost plus pricing; Marginal cost pricing; Sealed bid pricing; Going rate pricing, Limit pricing,
Market skimming pricing, Penetration pricing, Two-part pricing, Block pricing, Bundling
pricing, Peak load pricing, Cross subsidization.
UNIT V
INTRODUCTION TO FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING:
Double-entry book keeping; Journal; Ledger; Trial balance; Final accounts - trading account,
profit and loss account, and balance sheet with simple adjustments.
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS THROUGH RATIOS:
Computation; Analysis and interpretation of liquidity ratios - current ratios, and quick ratio;
Activity ratios - Inventory Turnover ratio, and Debtor Turnover ratio; Capital structure ratios –
Debt-Equity ratio, and Interest Coverage Ratio; Profitability ratios - Gross profit Ratio, Net
Profit Ratio, Operating Ratio, P/E ratio, and EPs.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Managerial Economics and Financial Analysis by Aryasri, Tata McGraw Hill, 2009.
2. Managerial Economics by Varshney & Maheswari, Sultan Chand, 2009
86
REFERENCES:
1. Financial Accounting for Management: An analytical perspective by Ambrish Gupta,
Pearson Education, 2010.
2. Managerial Economics by H. Craig Peterson & W. Cris Lewis, Prentice Hall of India.
87
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5ME05) KINEMATICS OF MACHINERY
Course Prerequisites: Geometrical construction, Engineering Mechanics.
Course Objectives:
• Understand mechanisms for motion transmission.
• Understand the construction methods for drawing velocity and acceleration
diagrams.
• Design engineering applications involving in selection, sizing of mechanism to
accomplish motion objectives.
• Understand the mechanism involving cams, gears and gear trains
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Draw velocity and acceleration diagrams of various parts of a machine along with the
transmission Mechanisms.
• Design components of machine parts, structures, gears, cams, belts, pulleys, etc.
for kinematic analysis.
• Understand the straight line motion mechanisms, Hooke’s joint and steering
mechanisms.
• Design the mechanisms after analysis for safety and efficient working.
UNIT I
MECHANISMS AND MACHINES:
Elements or links-classification-rigid link, flexible and fluid link-types of kinematic pairs-sliding
pairs, turning, rolling, screw and spherical pairs-lower and higher pairs-closed and open
pairs-constrained motion-completely, partially or successfully constrained and incompletely
constrained.
Mechanisms, Machines -classification of machines- kinematic chain-inversion of mechanism-
inversions of quadric cycle chain, single and double slider crank chains, Intermittent motion
mechanisms.
UNIT II
KINEMATICS:
Velocity and acceleration-motion of link in machine-Construction of velocity and acceleration
diagrams-graphical method- Application of relative velocity method- four bar chain.
88
ANALYSIS OF MECHANISMS:
Analysis of slider crank chain for displacement, velocity and acceleration of slider-
acceleration diagram for a given mechanism, Klein’s construction, Coriolis acceleration,
determination of Coriolis component of acceleration.
PLANE MOTION OF BODY:
Instantaneous center of rotation, centroids and axodes - relative motion between two bodies-
Three centers in line theorem-Graphical determination of instantaneous centre,analysis of
simple mechanisms and determination of linear velocity and angular velocity of links.
UNIT III
MECHANISMS AND HOOKE’S JOINT:
Condition for correct steering –Davis steering gear, Ackerman’s steering gear-velocity -ratio -
Single and double Hooke’s Joint- Universal coupling-applications- problems.
STRAIGHT LINE MOTION MECHANISMS:
Exact and approximate-copied and generated types - Peaucellier , Hart and Scott Russell-
Grasshopper- Watt-Tchebicheff and Robert mechanism and straight line motion,
Pantograph.
UNIT IV
CAMS:
Definition of cam and followers-their uses-types of followers and cams-terminology-types of
follower motion-uniform velocity-simple harmonic motion and uniform acceleration, maximum
velocity and acceleration during outward and return strokes in the above three cases.
Overview of polynomial motions, Analysis of motion of followers: roller follower- circular cam
with straight, concave and convex flanks.
UNIT V
HIGHER PAIRS:
Friction wheels and toothed gears-types-law of gearing, condition for constant velocity ratio
for transmission of motion, forms of teeth- Cycloidal and Involute profiles. Velocity of sliding-
phenomena of interference-methods of interference, condition for minimum number of teeth
to avoid interference, expression for arc of contact and path of contact- introduction to helical,
bevel and worm gearing.
GEAR TRAINS:
Introduction-train value-types-simple, compound and reverted wheel trains – epicyclic gear
train, methods of finding train value or velocity ratio-selection of gear box differential gear for
an automobile.
89
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Theory of Machines by Thomas Bevan.
2. Theory of Machines by P. L. Ballaney.
REFERENCES:
1. Theory of Machines by Ratan.
2. Theory of Machines by R. S. Khurmi & J. K. Gupta.
3. Theory of Machines by Sadhu Singh.
4. Theory of Machines by Shigley.
5. Mechanism and Machine Theory by J. S. Rao and R. V. Dukkipati.
90
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5ME06) THERMAL ENGINEERING
Course Prerequisite: Mathematics, Thermodynamics
Course Objectives:
• To Analyse the Actual cycles and systems of Internal Combustion Engine.
• To Analyse the combustion phenomena in Spark Ignition and Compression ignition
Engines.
• To Evaluate the performance parameters of internal combustion engines and
reciprocating compressor
• To Evaluate the COP of different refrigeration cycles and to measure the
psychrometric properties of air air for air-conditioning system
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• To Analyse the Actual cycles and compare it with the air standard cycle of the
given engine.
• To Analyse the combustion phenomena in Spark Ignition and Compression ignition
Engines.
• To Evaluate the performance parameters (Brake power, Friction power, Torque,
Efficiencies ). of internal combustion engines and (Isothermal efficiency ,volumetric
efficiency ) reciprocating compressor
• To Evaluate the COP of different refrigeration cycles and to measure the
psychrometric properties of air
UNIT I
ACTUAL CYCLES AND THEIR ANALYSIS:
Introduction, Comparison of Air Standard and Actual Cycles, Time Loss Factor, Heat
Loss Factor, Exhaust blow down, Loss due to Gas exchange process, Volumetric
Efficiency, Loss due to Rubbing Friction, Actual and Fuel-Air Cycles of I.C. Engines.
UNIT II
I. C. ENGINES:
Classification, Working principles, Valve and Port Timing Diagrams, Air Standard, air-fuel and
actual cycles, Engine systems; Fuel Systems, Simple Carburetor, Solex carburetor, Fuel
Injection Systems; Ignition systems, Battery ignition, Magneto ignition, Modern ignition
systems; Transistorized coil ignition (TCI) system, Capacitive Discharge Ignition (CDI)
System, Cooling and Lubrication systems.
91
UNIT III
COMBUSTION IN S. I. ENGINES:
Homogeneous mixture, Heterogeneous mixture, Stages of combustion, Flame front
propagation, Factors influencing the flame speed, Rate of pressure rise, Abnormal combustion,
Phenomenon of Knock, Types of Combustion chambers, Fuel requirements and fuel rating
COMBUSTION IN C. I. ENGINES:
Combustion process, stages of combustion, Delay period and its importance, Factors
affecting Delay period, Diesel Knock, Comparison of Knock in C.I and S.I engine,
Combustion chambers in C.I. Engine, Fuel requirements and fuel rating.
UNIT IV
TESTING AND PERFORMANCE:
Measurement and Testing; Friction power, Indicated power, Brake power, Fuel consumption,
Air consumption, Emissions Performance parameters; Engine power, Engine efficiencies,
Engine performance characteristics, Heat Balance.
RECIPROCATING AIR COMPRESSORS:
Classification; Reciprocating Compressor: Principle of operation, Work required, Isothermal
efficiency, Volumetric efficiency and effect of clearance, Multi stage compression with inter
cooling, Saving of work, Minimum work condition for stage compression.
UNIT V
INTRODUCTION TO REFRIGERATION CYCLE AND PSYCHROMETRIC PROPERTIES:
Ideal Refrigeration cycles - Vapor compression refrigeration cycle, Bell Colman refrigeration
cycle, Vapour Absorption Refrigeration System
Psychrometric properties - Dry bulb temperature, Wet bulb temperature, Dew point
temperature, Specific humidity, Relative humidity, Degree of saturation, Specific enthalpy,
Psychrometric chart,(Indicating only Psychrometric processes on Chart)
TEXT BOOKS:
1. I. C. Engines by V. Ganesan; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Thermal Engineering by Mahesh M. Rathore; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Refrigeration & Air Conditioning by C.P. Arora; Tata McGraw Hill.
2. I.C. Engines by Heywood; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
3. Thermal Engineering by Rajput; Publisher: Lakshmi Publication.
92
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EE23) BASIC ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
(Common to ME & AE)
Course prerequisites: Physics, Electrical Engineering & Electronics Engineering
Course Objectives:
• To get awareness of using mechanical energy for electrical energy generation.
• To understand the basic operation of circuits used for automobile control.
• To know about working of different electrical machines used for propulsion of
vehicles.
• To know the basic operation of diode and transistor.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Analyze the electro-mechanical energy conversion using electrical machines.
• Analyze the different electrical machines used for propulsion of vehicles.
• Analyze different control circuits which involve different circuits’ parameters.
• Analyze the operation of transistor and CRT
UNIT I
ELECTRICAL CIRCUITS:
CIRCUIT CONCEPT R-L-C PARAMETERS-OHM’S LAW - KIRCHHOFF’S LAWS - Series -
Parallel resistive networks - Star/delta transformations.
AC CIRCUITS : Average value, rms value, form factor of sinusoidal function, R-L, R-C and R-
L-C circuits- Concept of Power factor, Real and reactive powers simple problems.
UNIT II
DC MACHINES:
Principle of operation of DC Generator – emf equation - types – Principle of operation of DC
Motor - DC motor types –torque equation – Three point starter -Swinburne’s test,
applications.
TRANSFORMERS:
Principle of operation of single phase transformer–emf equation–losses–OC and SC tests -
efficiency and regulation
93
UNIT III
AC MACHINES:
Principle of operation of alternator – regulation by synchronous impedance method –Principle
of operation of induction motor – slip – torque characteristics – applications.
INSTRUMENTS:
Principle and construction of permanent magnet moving coil and moving iron instruments.
UNIT IV
DIODE AND IT’S CHARACTERISTICS:
P-n junction diode, symbol, V-I Characteristics, Diode Applications: Rectifiers – Half wave
Full wave and Bridge rectifiers (simple Problems)
UNIT V
TRANSISTORS:
PNP and NPN Junction transistor, Transistor as an amplifier, SCR characteristics and
applications.
CATHODE RAY OSCILLOSCOPE:
Principles of CRT (Cathode Ray Tube), Deflection, Sensitivity, Electrostatic and Magnetic
deflection, Applications of CRO - Voltage, Current and frequency measurements.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Electronic Devices and Circuits David A Bell Oxford University Press.
2. Introduction to Electrical Engineering – M.S Naidu and S. Kamakshaiah, TMH
Publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Principles of Electrical and Electronics Engineering by V.K.Mehta, S.Chand & Co.
2. Basic Electrical Engineering by Kothari and Nagarath, TMH Publications, 2nd
edition.
94
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
0 6 3
(5ME57) MACHINE DRAWING
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Graphics
Course Objectives:
• Remember the Principles of Machine Drawing Conventions.
• Analyze the Machine Elements like Screw Threads, Nuts, Bolts, Keys and riveted
joins.
• Remember the Machine Elements and simple parts like Shaft couplings, Journal,
pivot, and collar bearings.
• Evaluate the different views of Part Drawings and based on that, draw the
Assembled Parts of Engine & Machine parts.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply the Knowledge of Machine Drawing Conventions.
• Analyze and draw the Machine Elements like Screw Threads, Nuts, Bolts, Keys and
riveted joins.
• Analyze and draw the Machine Elements and simple parts like Shaft couplings,
Journal, pivot, and collar bearings.
• Analyze all the parts & assemble them in AutoCAD with section views.
Machine drawing conventions
Need for drawing conventions – Introduction to IS conventions
a) Conventional representation of materials, common machine elements and parts
such as screws, nuts, bolts, keys, gears, webs and ribs.
b) Types of sections – selection of section planes and drawing of sections and
auxiliary sectional views. Parts not usually sectioned.
c) Methods of dimensioning, general rules for sizes, and placement of dimensions for
holes, centers, and curved and tapered features.
d) Title boxes, their size, location, and other details - common abbreviations and their
liberal usage.
e) Types of drawings – working drawings for machine parts.
95
I. Drawing of machine elements and simple parts
Selection of orthogonal views and additional views for the following machine elements and
parts with every drawing proportion.
a) Popular forms of screw threads, bolts, nuts, stud bolts.
b) Keys, cottered joints, and knuckle joint.
c) Riveted joints for plates.
d) Shaft coupling and spigot joint.
e) Journal, pivot, and collar bearings.
II. Assembly drawings
Assembly drawings for the following, using conventions and easy drawing proportions:
a) Engine parts – stuffing boxes, eccentrics, I.C. engine connecting rod and piston
assembly.
b) Other parts - screws jacks, machine vices, and tailstock.
NOTE
1. To adopt first angle of projection.
2. The student should be able to provide working drawings of actual parts.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Machine Drawing by K. L. Narayana, P. Kannaiah and K. Venkata Reddy;
Publisher: New Age/ Publishers.
2. Machine Drawing by K. C. John, Publisher: PHI
REFERENCES:
1. Machine Drawing by Siddheswar, Kannaiah and Sastry.
2. Machine Drawing by N. D. Bhatt.
96
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
II Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5ME58) THERMAL ENGINEERING LABORATORY
Course Prerequisites: Thermodynamics, Thermal Engineering
Course Objectives:
• To measure the Performance parameters and draw its characteristic curve for a diesel
engine.
• To measure the Performance parameters and draw its characteristic curve for a petrol
engine.
• To measure the Performance parameters of reciprocating compressor.
• To evaluate the COP of refrigeration and Air conditioning system.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• To measure the Performance parameters like Brake Power, Indicated Power,friction
power ,specific fuel consumption ,volume flow rate of air into the engine cylinder and
specific heat of the exhaust gases.They will also be able to calculate the various heat
losses in the engine.
• To measure the Performance parameters like Brake Power, Indicated Power, friction
power ,specific fuel consumption ,volume flow rate of air into the cylinder and specific
heat of the exhaust gases and draw its characteristic curve for a petrol engine.
• To measure the Performance parameters of reciprocating compressor like mass flow
rate of air in the compressor, power consumed by the compressor, volumetric efficiency
and Isothermal efficiency.
• To evaluate the COP of refrigeration system based on the experimental value as
well as the P-H chart. They will be able to evaluate COP Air conditioning system
based on the experimental value and by using the Psychrometric chart for air.
Syllabus:
Any 10 experiments to be conducted from the following:
1. I.C. Engines Valve / Port Timing Diagrams.
2. I.C. Engines Performance Test (4 -Stroke Diesel Engines).
3. I.C. Engines Performance Test on 2-Stroke Petrol Engines.
4. Evaluation of Engine friction by conducting Morse test on 4-Stroke Multi cylinder
Petrol.
97
5. I.C. Engines Heat Balance.
6. I.C.Engines Air/Fuel Ratio and Volumetric Efficiency.
7. Performance Test on Reciprocating Air – Compressor Unit
8. Study of Boilers.
9. Dis-assembly / Assembly of Engines.
10. Determination of optimum cooling water temperature on I.C.Engine.
11. Performance test on Air conditioning Test Rig.
12. Performance test on Refrigeration test rig.
98
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
L T/P/D C
II Year B.Tech II Semester
0 3 2
(5EE63) BASIC ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING LABORATORY
(Common to ME & AE)
Course prerequisites: Physics, Electrical Engineering & Electronics Engineering
Course Objectives:
• Understand the performance of D.C Shunt Machine.
• Understand the performance of AC machines.
• Understand the performance and efficiency / regulation of electrical machines are
determined experimentally.
• Understand the operation of solid state devices like diode, transistor and SCR.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Find the application of electrical machines with the experimental determination of
the performance of the machines.
• Find the application of Induction motor with the experimental determination of the
performance of the machines.
• Find the application of single phase transformer.
• Identify the characteristics of all solid state devices.
Section A: Electrical Engineering:
The following experiments are required to be conducted as compulsory experiments:
1. Swinburne’s test on D.C. Shunt machine. (Predetermination of efficiency of a given
D.C. Shunt machine working as motor and generator)
2. Brake test on D.C Shunt Motor
3. OC and SC tests on single phase transformer(Predetermination of efficiency and
regulation at given power factors)
4. Brake test on 3-phase Induction motor (Determination of performance
characteristics)
5. Regulation of alternator by Synchronous impedance method
Section B: Electronics Engineering:
The following experiments are required to be conducted as compulsory experiments:
1. P-n Diode Characteristics
2. Transistor CE Characteristics (Input and Output)
3. Full wave Rectifier with and without filters
4. CE Amplifiers
5. SCR Characteristics
99
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
L T/P/D C
II B.Tech II Semester
0 3 2
(5BS04) GENDER SENSITIZATION
(Common to All Branches)
Objectives of the Course:
• To develop students sensibility with regard to issues of gender in contemporary
India.
• To provide a critical perspective on the socialization of men and women.
• To introduce students to information about some key biological aspects of genders.
• To expose the students to debates on the politics and economics of work.
• To help students reflect critically on gender violence.
• To expose students to more egalitarian interactions between men and women.
Learning Outcomes:
• Students will have developed a better understanding of important issues related to
gender in contemporary India.
• Students will be sensitized to basic dimensions of the biological, sociological,
psychological and legal aspects of gender. This will be achieved through discussion
of materials derived from research, facts, everyday life, literature and film.
• Students will attain a finer grasp of how gender discrimination works in our society
and how to counter it.
• Students will acquire insight into the gendered division of labour and its relation to
politics and economics.
• Men and women students and professionals will be better equipped to work and live
together as equals.
• Students will develop a sense of appreciation of women in all walks of life.
• Through providing accounts of students and movements as well as the new laws
that provide protection and relief to women, the textbook will empower students to
understand and respond to gender violence.
UNIT-I:
UNDERSTANDING GENDER:
Gender: Why Should We Study It? (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-1)
Socialization: Making Women, Making Men (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-2)
Introduction, Preparing for Womanhood. Growing up Male. First lessons in Caste. Different
Masculinities.
Just Relationships: Being Together as Equals (Towards a world of Equals: Unit-12)
Mary Kom and Onler. Love and Acid just do not Mix. Love Letters, Mothers and Fathers.
Further Reading: Rosa Parks-The Brave Heart.
100
UNIT-II:
GENDER AND BIOLOGY:
Missing Women: Sex Selection and Its Consequences (Towards a word of Equals:
Unit-4)
Declining Sex Ratio. Demographic Consequences.
Gender Spectrum: Beyond the Binary (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-10)
Two or Many? Struggles with Discrimination.
Additional Reading: Our Bodies, Our health (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-13)
UNIT-III:
GENDER AND LABOUR:
Housework: the Invisible Labour (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-3)
“My Mother doesn’t Work.””Share the Load.”
Women’s Work: Its Politics and Economics (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-7)
Fact and Fiction. Unrecognized and Unaccounted work. Further Reading: Wages and
Conditions of Work.
UNIT-IV:
ISSUES OF VOILENCE:
Sexual Harassment: Say No! (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-6)
Sexual Harassment: not Eve-Teasing-Coping with Everyday Harassment-Further Reading:
“Chupulu”.
Domestic Violence: Speaking Out (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-8)
Is Home a Safe Place?-When Women Unite [Film]. Rebuilding Lives. Further Reading: New
Forums for Justice.
Thinking about Sexual Violence (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-11)
Blaming the Victim-“I fought for my Life...”- Further reading: The Caste Face of Violence.
UNIT-V:
GENDER AND STUDIES:
Knowledge: Through the Lens of Gender (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-5)
Point of View. Gender and the Structure of Knowledge. Further Reading: Unacknowledged
Women Artists of Telangana.
Whose History? Questions for Historians and Others (Towards a word of Equals: Unit-
9)
Reclaiming a Past. Writing Other Histories. Further Reading. Missing Pages from Modern
Telangana History.
Essential Reading: all the Units in the Textbook, “Towards a word of Equals: A Bilingual
Textbook on Gender” written by A. Suneetha, Uma Bhrugubanda, Duggirala Vasanta, Rama
Malkote, Vasudha Nagaraj, Asma rasheed, Gogu Shyamala, Deepa Sreenivas and Susie
Tharu.
Note: Since it is Interdisiplinary Course, Resouse Persons can be drawn from the fields of
English Literature or Sociology or Political Science or any other qualified faculty who has
expertise in this field.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
101
1. Sen, Amartya. “More than One Million Women are Missing.” New York Review of
Books 37.20 (20 December 1990). Print. ‘We Were Making History...’ Life Stories of
Women in the Telangana People’s Struggle. New Delhi: Kali for Women, 1989.
2. Tripti Lahiri. “By the Numbers: Where Indian Women Work.” Women’s Studies
Journal (14 November 2012) Available online at : http://blogs.wsj.com/India real
time/2012/11/14/by-the-numbers-where-India-women-work/>
3. K. Satyanarayana and Susie tharu(Ed) Steel Nibs are Sprouting: New Dalit Writing
from South India Dossier 2: Telugu and Kannada
http://harpercollins.co.in/BookDetail.asp?Book Code =3732
4. Vimala . “Vantillu (The Kitchen)”. Women Writing in India: 600 BC to the Present.
Volume II: The 20th Century. Ed. Susie Tharu and K. Lalita. Delhi: Oxford University
Press, 1995. 599-601.
5. Shatrughna, Veena et al. Women’s Work and its Impact on Child Health and
Nutrition, Hyderabad, National Institute of Nutrition, Indian Council of Medical
Research. 1993.
6. Stree Shakti Sanghatana. “ We Were Making History.....’Life Stories of Women in
the Telangana People’s Struggle. New Delhi: Kali for Women, 1989.
7. Menon, Nivedita. Seeing like a Feminist. New Delhi: Zubaan-Penguin Books, 2012.
8. Jayaprabha, A. “Chupulu (Stares)”, Women Writing in India: 600 BC to the Present.
Volume II: The 20th Century. Ed. Susie Tharu and K. Lalita. Delhi: Oxford University
Press, 1995. 596-597.
9. Javeed, Shayan and Anupam Manuhaar. “Women and wage Discrimination in
India: A Critical Analysis.”International Journal of Humanities and Social Science
Invention 2.4 (2013).
10. Gautam , Liela and Gita Ramaswamy. “A ‘conversation’ between a Daughter and a
Mother.”Broadsheet on Contemporary Politics, Special issue on Sexuality and
Harassment: gender Politics on Campus Today. Ed. Madhumeeta Sinha and Asma
rasheed. Hyderabad: Anveshi Research Center for Women’s Studies, 2014.
11. Abdulali Sohaila “I Fought For My Life ...and Won. “Available online at:
http://www.thealternative.in/lifestyle/i-fought-for-my-lifeand-won-sohaila-abdulal/
12. Jeganathan Pradeep, Partha Chatterjee (Ed). “Community, Gender and Violence
Subaltern Studies XI’
Permanent Black and ravi Dayal Publishers, New Delhi, 2000.
13. K. Kapadia. The Violence of Development: the Politics of Identity, Gender and
Social Inequalities in India. London: Zed Books, 2002.
14. S. Benhabib. Situating the Self: Gender, Community, and Postmodernism in
Contemporary Ethics, London: Routledge, 1992.
15. Virginia Woolf. A Room of One’s Own. Oxford: Black Swan. 1992.
16. T. Banuri and M. Mahmood, Just Development: Beyond Adjustment with a Human
Face, Karachi: Oxford University Press, 1997
102
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5ME07) PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Material science, Manufacturing Science.
Course Objectives:
• Understand about sand casting and metal casting techniques.
• Impart the knowledge of various welding processes.
• Understand about the importance rolling, forging and sheet metal operations.
• Understand about the processing of plastics.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Analyze and select the suitable casting technique for making the components.
• Analyze the different types of welding processes are needed for various materials
and importance of welding.
• Know the methods involved in sheet metal operations, rolling ,forging etc.
• Know the various manufacturing methods in processing of plastics.
UNIT I
CASTING:
Steps involved in making a casting; Advantage of casting and its applications; Types of
Foundry sands,Types of patterns – Materials used for patterns; Pattern allowances and their
construction; Principles of Gating, Gating ratio and design of gating systems.Risers; Types;
Casting design considerations;
Special casting processes: Centrifugal, Die, Investment casting only, Cupola furnace and
Electric arc furnace only.
UNIT II
WELDING:
Classification of welding processes, types of welds and welded joints ,Gas welding, ARC
welding, Resistance welding, Thermit welding and Plasma welding.
TIG & MIG welding, Friction stir welding, Explosive welding, Soldering & Brazing. Heat
affected zones in welding; welding defects.
103
UNIT III
MECHANICAL WORKING -1:
Hot working; Cold working; Strain hardening; Recovery; Recrystallisation and grain growth;
Comparison of properties of cold and hot worked parts.
ROLLING:
Rolling fundamentals; Theory of rolling; Types of Rolling mills and products;
EXTRUSION:
Basic extrusion process and its characteristics; Hot extrusion and Cold extrusion; Forward
extrusion and backward extrusion – Impact extrusion; Hydrostatic extrusion; Extrusion
defects.
FORGING PROCESSES:
Principles of Forging; Tools and dies; Types of Forging; Smith forging; Drop Forging; Roll
Forging; Rotary Forging; Forging defects.
UNIT IV
MECHANICAL WORKING -2:
Stamping, forming and other cold working processes: Blanking and piercing; Bending and
forming; Drawing and its types; Wire drawing and Tube drawing; Coining; Hot and cold
spinning
UNIT V
PLASTIC MATERIALS AND PROCESSES:
Types of plastics; advantages of plastics, Injection moulding; Blow moulding; Thermoforming.
Compression moulding.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Manufacturing Technology by P.N. Rao
2. Production Technology by R.K. Jain
REFERENCES:
1. Manufacturing Engineering and Technology by Kalpak Jian S
2. Process and Materials of Manufacturing by Lindberg/PE
3. Principles of Metal Castings by Rosenthal.
4. Welding Process by Parmar
5. Production Technology by Sharma P C
104
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5ME08) DYNAMICS OF MACHINERY
Course Prerequisites: Engineering mechanics, Kinematics of machinery.
Course Objectives:
• Study the construction methods like Klien’s, velocity polygons, acceleration
diagrams etc for drawing various mechanisms.
• Identify the significance of the principles of equilibrium, super position, virtual work&
D’Alembert’s principle.
• Familiarize with the methods of static &dynamic stability.
• Study the Mechanical vibrations on various systems.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Show the engineering applications involving the selection and design of machine
components with respect to the forces developed.
• Check whether the proposed design is satisfactory.
• Analyze and design flywheels, governors and gyroscopes to withstand forces.
• Analyze the different vibration system using equilibrium, energy, Rayleigh’s
dunker’s, etc method.
UNIT I
PRECESSION:
Gyroscopes, effect of precessional motion on the stability of moving vehicles such as motor
car, motor cycle, aeroplanes and ships.
STATIC AND DYNAMIC FORCE ANALYSIS OF PLANAR MECHANISMS: (NEGLECTING
FRICTION)
Introduction-free body diagrams-conditions of equilibrium-two and three force members-
Inertia forces and D’Alembert’s principle-planar rotation about a fixed centre.
SYNTHESIS OF LINKAGES:
Three position synthesis- four position synthesis- precision positions-structural error-
Chebyshev’s spacing, Freudenstein’s Equation, problems.
105
UNIT II
CLUTCHES:
Friction clutches, Single disc or plate clutch, multiple disc clutch, cone clutch& centrifugal
clutch.
BRAKES AND DYNAMOMETERS:
Simple block brakes, internal expanding brake, band brake of vehicle.
Dynamometers - absorption and transmission types- general description and method of
operation.
UNIT III
TURNING MOMENT DIAGRAMS AND FLYWHEELS:
TURNING MOMENT:
Inertia torque-angular velocity and acceleration of connecting rod, crank effort and torque
diagrams- Fluctuation of energy-design of flywheels.
GOVERNORS:
Watt, Porter and Proell governors, Spring loaded governors- Hartnell and Hartung with
auxiliary springs, Sensitiveness, isochronism and hunting.
UNIT IV
BALANCING:
Balancing of rotating masses – single and multiple-single and different planes-balancing of
reciprocating masses-primary and secondary balancing- analytical and graphical methods.
UNBALANCED FORCES AND COUPLES:
Balancing of V, multi cylinder inline and radial engines for primary, secondary balancing and
locomotive balancing.
UNIT V
VIBRATIONS:
Free vibration of mass attached to a vertical spring - simple problems on forced damped
vibration.Vibration isolation and transmissibility - Whirling of shafts, critical speeds, torsional
vibrations, two and three rotor systems.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Theory of Machines by Thomas Bevan; Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Theory of Machines by S. S. Ratan; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Theory of Machines and Mechanisms by P. L. Ballaney; Publisher: Khanna.
2. Mechanism and Machine Theory by J. S. Rao and R. V. Dukkipati; Publisher: New
Age.
3. Kinematics and Dynamics of Machinery by R. L. Norton; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
4. Theory of Machines and Mechanisms by Uicker, Pennock & Shigley; Publisher:
Oxford.
106
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5ME09) MECHANICAL ENGINEERING DESIGN – I
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics, Engineering Mechanics, Solid Mechanics, Metallurgy
& Materials Science, kinematics of Machinery.
Course Objectives:
• Understand different properties of Materials and relationship between them.
• Understand the principles of stress, strain and Principal stresses as applied to
Solid bodies or structural and machine elements under loads.
• Understand to form mathematical equation and analyze problems by making
appropriate assumptions and learn systematic engineering method to solve
practical Design engineering problems.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Model and analyze design problems in Mechanical and structural engineering.
• Apply knowledge of standard elements and their technical information available in
the data bases and in designing machine elements.
• Predict modes of failure in materials or machine elements caused by different
types of loads under operation.
• Apply knowledge of design procedures to design the shafts, keys and springs.
UNIT I
ENGINEERING MATERIALS AND DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS:
The Design Phase / Methodology, and identification of need, Evaluation and Presentation,
Reliability and Product liability. Mechanical Properties of Engineering Materials, overall
design considerations, Factor safety, Preferred Numbers. Standard and codes, design data
handbook. Load, stress and critical sections in machine parts. Static strength, plastic
deformation, temperature properties, Definition of stress, simple stress, combined stress,
complex stress. Members subjected to axial, bending, torsion and shear loading, impact
stresses, theories of static failure.
UNIT II
DESIGN AGAINST FLUCTUATING LOAD:
Stress concentration, stress concentration factors, Reduction of stress concentration,
fluctuating stresses. Fatigue strength, Endurance Limit, fatigue test, S-N diagrams for
different structural materials. Low cycle and high cycle fatigue, Notch sensitivity, Design for
107
finite and infinite life. Gerber theory Soderberg and Goodman lines for fatigue strength,
modified Goodman theory.
UNIT III
DESIGN OF FASTERNERS:
TEMPORARY FASTENERS (Bolted and Screwed Fasteners)
Bolted joints, bolted joint under initial loading, eccentrically loaded Bolted Joints under
different static load conditions.
PERMANENT FASTENERS (Riveted and Welded Fasteners)
Riveted Joints, eccentrically loaded Riveted Joints, Design of Boiler Riveted joints, and
Welding symbols, butt and fillet welds, stress in the welded joints carries tension bending and
shear loading, Design of various types of Welding joints and eccentrically loaded welded
joints under different static load conditions.
UNIT IV
DESIGN OF FLEXIBLE MECHANICAL ELEMENTS:
BELT DRIVES:
Introduction, classification of belts, belt materials, design of flat (rectangular) belts, ratio of
belt tensions, V-Belts, power transmitted through V-Belt, design of V-Belts.
SPRINGS:
Classification of springs, spring material, Design of helical, leaf, disc and tensional springs
under constant loads and varying loads.
UNIT V
DESIGN OF SHAFTS AND KEYS:
Transmission shafts, Design of solid and hollow shafts based on strength, rigidity. Flexible
shafts, shaft and axles – key and classification of keys, stresses in the keys, design
considerations, effect of key way on the shaft strength.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Design of Machine Elements by Bhandari; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Mechanical Engineering Design by Shigley J. E and Mischke C. R; Publisher: Tata
McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Design by George E Dieter; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Machine Design - An Integrated Approach by Robert L.Norton; Publisher: Addison
Wesley.
3. Fundamentals of Machine Component Design by Juvinall R. C and Marshek K. M;
Publisher: John Wiley and Sons.
108
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5ME10) HEAT AND MASS TRANSFER
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Basic integral and differential calculus, thermodynamics
Course Objectives:
• To Measure the conduction mode of heat transfer in physical environment and to
derive general mathematical equation
• To measure the heat transfer through Homogeneous slabs, hollow cylinders,
sphere, extended surfaces and fins.
• To measure convective mode of heat transfer.
• To measure heat transfer during radiation , boiling and condensation
• To measure heat transfer through different types of heat exchangers
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Derive the general conduction equation in Cartesian, cylindrical and spherical
coordinates.
• Derive and apply equations in problems related to heat transfer through
Homogeneous slabs, hollow cylinders ,sphere, extended surfaces and fins
• Derive and apply the convective heat transfer equations to natural and forced flow
• Design the devices that transfers heat and measure their effectiveness.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION:
Modes and mechanisms of heat transfer - Basic laws of heat transfer - Simple general
discussion about applications of heat transfer. Conduction Heat Transfer: Fourier heat
conduction equation - General heat conduction equation in Cartesian, Cylindrical and
Spherical coordinates - simplification and forms of the field equation steady, unsteady and
periodic heat transfer - Initial and boundary conditions.
UNIT II
ONE DIMENSIONAL STEADY STATE CONDUCTION HEAT TRANSFER:
Homogeneous slabs, hollow cylinders and sphere - overall heat transfer coefficient - electrical
analogy - Critical radius of insulation - variable Thermal conductivity - systems with heat
sources or Heat generation - extended surfaces and fins. One Dimensional Transient
109
Conduction Heat Transfer: Systems with negligible internal resistance - chart solutions of
transient conduction systems.
UNIT III
CONVECTIVE HEAT TRANSFER:
Classification of systems based on causation of flow, condition of flow, configuration of flow
and medium of flow - Dimensional analysis as a tool for experimental investigation -
Concepts about hydrodynamic and thermal boundary layers - Buckingham Pi- Theorem and
method, application for developing Semi - empirical non-dimensional correlation for
convection heat transfer - Significance of non -dimensional numbers - use of empirical
correlations for convective heat transfer- Forced Convection: Flat plates and horizontal pipes.
Free Convection: Vertical plates and pipes.
UNIT IV
HEAT TRANSFER WITH PHASE CHANGE:
Heat transfer with boiling - pool boiling and film boiling - boiling curve for pool boiling - simple
correlations for pool boiling - Condensation plates heat transfer: film wise and drop wise
condensation - film condensation on vertical and horizontal cylinders using empirical
correlations.
RADIATION HEAT TRANSFER:
Emission characteristics and laws of black-body radiation - incident radiation - total and
monochromatic quantities -laws of Planck, Wien, Kirchoff, Lambert, Stefan and Boltzmann -
heat exchange between two black bodies -concepts of shape factor - emissivity - heat
exchange between grey bodies - radiation shields - electrical analogy for radiation net works.
UNIT V
HEAT EXCHANGERS:
Classification of heat exchangers - overall and fouling resistance - problems using LMTD and
NTU methods.
INTRODUCTION TO MASS TRANSFER:
Analogy between heat, mass and momentum transfer - classification: Diffusion and
convective mass transfer processes - Examples - Fick's Law of diffusion simple problems for
steady state molecular diffusion - Convection mass transfer coefficient - non-dimensional
numbers of mass transfer analogous to convection heat transfer.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Fundamentals of Engineering Heat and Mass Transfer by R.C. Sachdeva; Publisher:
New Age International.
2. Heat and Mass Transfer Data book by C.P. Kothandaraman; Publisher: New Age.
110
REFERENCES:
1. Heat Transfer by OZSIK.
2. Heat Transfer by HOLMAN.
3. Heat Transfer by Sukhatme; Publisher: University Press.
4. Heat and Mass Transfer by D. S. Kumar.
5. Fundamentals of Heat & Mass Transfer by Incopera & Dewitt.
111
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5ME11) TURBO MACHINERY
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Engineering Basics, Thermal Engineering
Basics
Course Objectives:
• Analyze and understand various energy conversations that take place in a turbo
machines.
• Apply the principles of turbo machines.
• Evaluate governing mathematical equations to perform theoretical calculations.
• Create a model for condensers, compressors and turbines.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Model and analyze problems in turbo machines.
• Create a simple energy producing or effort reducing device using basic
thermodynamics concepts.
• Evaluate the problems in turbomachines
• To apply fundamental equations of steam generators ,condensers and nozzles
UNIT I
STEAM GENERATORS:
Introduction, Classification of Boilers , Working Principles of Fire Tube and Water Tube
Boilers, Low Pressure boilers, High Pressure Boilers – Babcock and Wilcox , Lamont Boiler,
Boiler draught and performance of boilers, Equivalent evaporation.
STEAM CONDENSORS:
Introduction, purpose and types of condensers. Efficiency of condenser, air pumps.
UNIT II
STEAM NOZZLES:
Functions of nozzle, applications, types, flow through nozzles, Thermodynamic analysis,
assumptions, velocity at nozzle exit, Ideal and actual expansion in nozzle, velocity co-
efficient, condition for maximum discharge, nozzle efficiency, Critical pressure ratio,
Supersaturated flow and its effects, degree of super saturation, degree of under cooling,
wilson line.
112
UNIT III
STEAM TURBINES:
IMPULSE TURBINE:
Mechanical details, velocity diagram, effect of friction, power developed, axial thrust, diagram
efficiency, Condition for maximum efficiency, Methods to reduce rotor speed - velocity
compounding, pressure compounding, combined velocity and pressure compounding,
velocity and pressure variation along the flow.
Reaction Turbine - Mechanical details, principle of operation, Thermodynamic analysis of a
stage, Degree of reaction, velocity diagram, parson’s reaction turbine, condition for maximum
efficiency.
UNIT IV
ROTARY COMPRESSORS:
Working Principles of - Roots blower, vane blower and screw compressor.
CENTRIFUGAL COMPRESSORS:
Mechanical details and principle of operation, velocity and pressure variation. Energy
transfer. Impeller blade shape-losses, slip factor, power input factor, pressure co-efficient and
adiabatic co-efficient, velocity diagrams.
AXIAL FLOW COMPRESSORS:
Mechanical details and principle of operation, velocity triangles and energy transfer per stage,
degree of reaction, work done factor, Isentropic efficiency, pressure rise calculations,
Polytrophic efficiency.
UNIT V
GAS TURBINES:
Classification of Gas Turbines ,Ideal cycle, essential components ,parameters of
performance, actual cycle , regeneration ,inter cooling and reheating, closed and semi closed
cycles, merits and demerits, combustion chambers and turbines for Gas Turbine plants.
JET PROPULSION:
Principle of operation, Classification of Jet propulsion engines, working principles with
schematic diagram and representation on T-s diagram, Thrust, Thrust power and propulsion
efficiency. Needs and demands met by Turbo Jet Engines, Schematic diagram,
Thermodynamic cycle, performance evaluation thrust augmentation methods.
ROCKETS:
Application - working principle, Classification, Propellant type, Thrust, Propulsive efficiency –
Specific impulse, solid and liquid propellant Rocket Engines.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Thermal Engineering by Mahesh M. Rathore; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Thermal Engineering by R.K Rajput; Publisher: Lakshmi Publications.
113
REFERENCES:
1. Gas Turbines by V. Ganesan; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Thermal Engineering by P. L. Ballaney; Publisher: Khanna.
3. Fundamentals of Turbo Machinery by B. K. Venkanna; Publisher: Prentice Hall
International.
114
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(5CE71) DISASTER MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives:
• Understand the difference between a hazard and disaster
• Know about various disasters and their impacts
• Understand Different approaches of disaster risk reduction
• Understand Disaster risks in India
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Acquire the knowledge disaster Management
• Understand the vulnerability of ecosystem and infrastructure due to a disaster
• Acquire the knowledge of Disaster Management Phases
• Understand the hazard and vulnerability profile of India
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO DISASTER:
Concepts and definitions (Disaster, Hazard, Vulnerability, Resilience, Risks)
UNIT II
DISASTERS:
CLASSIFICATIONS, CAUSES, IMPACTS:
(including social, economic, political, environment, health, psychosocial, etc.)
Differential impacts-in terms of caste, class, gender, age, location, disability Global trends in
disasters. Urban disaster, pandemics, complex emergencies, Climate change
UNIT III
APPROACHES TO DISASTER RISK REDUCTION:
Disaster cycle-its analysis, phase, Culture of safety, prevention, mitigation and preparedness,
community based DRR, Structural measures, roles and responsibilities of community.
Panchayati Raj Institutions/Urban Local Bodies (PRIs/ULBs), states, center and other stake-
holders.
UNIT IV
INTER-RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN DISASTER AND DEVELOPMENT:
Factors affecting Vulnerabilities, differential impacts, impact of development projects such as
dams, embankments, change in land-use etc. Climate change Adaption. Relevance of
indigenous knowledge, appropriate technology and local resources.
UNIT V
DISASTER RISK MANAGEMENT IN INDIA:
Hazard and vulnerability profile of India
115
Components of Disaster relief: Water, food, sanitation, shelter, health, waste management
Institutional arrangements (Mitigation, Response and Preparedness, DM Act Policy, Other
related polices, plan, programmes and legislation)
PROJECT WORK :( FIELD WORK, CASE STUDIES)
The project/fieldwork is meant for students to understand vulnerabilities and to work on
reducing disaster risks and to build a culture of safety. Projects must be conceived creatively
based on the geographic location and hazard.
SUGGESTED READING LIST:
1. Alexander David, Introduction in ‘Confronting Catastrophe’, oxford University press,
2000
2. Andharia J. Vulnerability in disaster Discourse, JTCDM, Tata Institute of Social
Sciences working paper no.8, 2008
3. Blaikie, P, Cannon T, Davis I, Wisner B 1997. At Risk Natural Hazards, Peoples’
Vulnerability and Disaster, Rutledge.
4. Coppola P Damon, 2007. Introduction to International Disaster Management.
5. Carter, Nick 1991.Disaster Management: A Disaster Manager’s Handbook. Asian
Development Bank, Manila Philippines.
6. Cuny,F.1983. Development and Disasters, Oxford University Press
7. Govt.of India; Disaster Management Act 2005,Government of India, New Delhi.
116
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech ME – I sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective-I 3 0 3
(5EE71) RENEWABLE ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES
Course Objectives:
• To provide necessary knowledge about the modeling, design and analysis of various PV
systems
• To show that PV is an economically viable, environmentally sustainable alternative to the
world's energy supplies
• To understand the power conditioning of PV and WEC system’s power output
Course Outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Model, analyze and design various photovoltaic systems
• Know the feasibility of various storage systems
• Design efficient stand alone and grid connected PV and WEC power systems
UNIT I
Introduction to photovoltaic (pv) systems:
Historical development of PV systems- Overview of PV usage in the world Photovoltaic
effect-conversion of solar energy into electrical energy.
Solar cells and arrays
Behavior of solar cells-basic structure and characteristics: types - equivalent circuit-modeling
of solar cells including the effects of temperature, irradiation and series/shunt resistances on
the open-circuit voltage and short-circuit currentSolar cell arrays- PV modules-PV generators-
shadow effects and bypass diodes- hot spot problem in a PV module and safe operating
area- Terrestrial PV module modelingInterfacing PV modules with different loads.
UNIT II
Energy storage alternatives for pv systems
Methods of Energy storage –Pumped Energy Storage – Compressed Energy Storage –
Storage batteries- lead-acid- nickel cadmium-nickel-metal-hydride and lithium type batteries.
Small storage systems employing ultra capacitors- properties- modeling of batteries.
UNIT-III
Wind Energy Conversion systems (WECS)
Basic Principle of WECS, Nature of Wind, Wind survey in india, Components of WECS,
Power Vs Speed, TSR, Maximum Power operation, WECS- Trade off- Control Requirements,
Basic Principle of Induction generator for WECS
UNIT-IV
117
Converters for PV and Wind
AC-DC Rectifier, DC-AC inverter (Basic operation) Grid interface voltage and frequency
control, Battery charger (Basic operation)
Power conditioning of PV systems
Array Design, Sun Tracking, Single axis-Dual Axis, Maximum Power point Tracking- PO
method- IC method
UNIT-V
Stand Alone systems:
PV Stand Alone, Electric Vehicle, Wind stand Alone, Standalone Hybrid systems- Hybrid with
diesel, Hybrid with Fuel cell- Mode controller- Load sharing, systems sizing, wind farm sizing-
Power and Energy estimates, , Residential systems, PV water pumping, PV powered lighting-
TEXT BOOKS
1. Patel M. R., “Wind and Solar Power Systems Design, Analysis, and Operation”, CRC
Press, New York, 2nd Edition, 2005
2. Goetzberger, Hoffmann V. U., “Photovoltaic Solar Energy Generation”,
SpringerVerlag,Berlin, 2005.
REFERENCES
1. Komp R.J., “Practical Photovoltaics: Electricity from solar cells”, Aatec
Publications,Michigan, 3rd Edition, 2001.
2. Castaner L., Silvestre S., “Modeling Photovoltaic Systems Using PSpice”, John Wiley &
Sons, England, 2002.
3. Jenny Nelson, “The physics of solar cells”, Imperial College Press, London, 2004.
118
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(5ME71) DIGITAL FABRICATION
Course Objectives:
• Understand the need of digital fabrication
• Understand about Two dimensional layer by layer techniques
• Know about extrusion based systems, post processing and the software issues
involved in digital fabrication
• Know the applications of digital fabrication
Learning Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Understand the importance of digital fabrication
• Identify different techniques involved in two dimensional layering
• Analyze the software issues involved in digital fabrication and know about extrusion
based systems and post processing
• Apply the knowledge gained in the digital fabrication
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING:
Introduction to AM, AM evolution, Classification of Additive Manufacturing, Distinction
between AM & CNC Machining, Advantages of AM
UNIT II
TWO- DIMENSIONAL LAYER- BY LAYER TECHNIQUES:
Stereolithography (SL), Solid Foil Polymerization (SFP), Selective Laser Sintering (SLS),
Selective Powder Building (SPB), Ballistic Particle Manufacturing (PM).
UNIT III
EXTRUSION BASED SYSTEMS:
Introduction, basic principles, Fused Deposition Modeling, Materials, Limitations of FDM
POST PROCESSING:
Introduction, Support Material Removal, Surface Texture Improvements, Accuracy
Improvements, Aesthetic Improvements.
UNIT IV
SOFTWARE ISSUES FOR ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING:
Introduction, Preparation of CAD Models: The STL file, Problems with STL files, STL file
manipulation, Beyond the STL file, Additional software to assist AM
119
UNIT V
AM APPLICATIONS:
Applications in design, Applications in Engineering Analysis and Planning
Medical Applications: Customized Implants and Prosthesis
Aerospace applications and Automotive Applications
Other Applications: Jewelry Industry, Coin Industry, Tableware Industry.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Ian Gibson, David W Rosen, Brent Stucker, “Additive Manufacturing Technologies:
Rapid Prototyping to Direct Digital Manufacturing”, Springer 2010.
2. Chuaa Chee Kai, Leong Kah Fai, “Rapid Prototyping: Principles & Applications”,
World Scientific, 2010.
REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Ali K.Karmani, Emand Abouel Nasr, “Rapid Prototyping: Theory and Practice”,
Springer 2006.
2. Andreas Gebhardt, Understanding Additive Manufacture: Rapid Prototyping, Rapid
Tooling and Rapid Manufacture, Hanser Publishers, 2013.
3. Hopkinson, N.Haque, and Dickens Rapid Manufacturing: Advanced Research in
Virtual and Rapid Prototyping, Taylor and Francis, 2007.
120
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(5EC71) PRINCIPLES OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS
(Qualitative Analysis only)
Course Objectives:
• To make students understand different types of communication.
• To make students understand different modulation technique
• To make students understand basics of wireless communications.
• To make students understand basics of cellular communications.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Analyze the techniques used for signal modulation and demodulation.
• Distinguish the need for PPM, PWM, Multiplexing.
• Learn basics of wireless networks.
• Understand the fundamental concepts of Cellular & Mobile communications
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION:
Block diagram of Electrical communication system, Radio communication, Types of
communications: Analog, pulse and digital.
ANALOG MODULATION:
Need for modulation, Types of Analog modulation, Amplitude Modulation, Angle Modulation:
Frequency & Phase modulations. Generation and Demodulation techniques. Advantages of
FM over AM, Bandwidth consideration, Narrow band and Wide band FM, Comparison of FM
& PM.
UNIT II
PULSE MODULATIONS:
Sampling, Nyquist rate of sampling, Sampling theorem for Band limited signals, PAM,
regeneration of base band signal, PWM and PPM, Time Divison Multiplexing, Frequency
Divison Multiplexing, Asynchronous Multiplexing.
UNIT III
DIGITAL COMMUNICATION:
Advantages, Block diagram of PCM, Quantization, effect of quantization, quantization error,
Base band digital signal, DM, ADM, ADPCM and comparison. Digital Modulation : ASK, FSK,
PSK, DPSK, QPSK demodulation, offset and non-offset QPSK, coherent and incoherent
reception, Modems.
UNIT IV
INTRODUCTION TO WIRELESS NETWORKING:
Introduction, Difference between wireless and fixed telephone networks, Development of
wireless networks, Traffic routing in wireless networks.
121
UNIT V
CELLULAR MOBILE RADIO SYSTEMS:
Introduction to Cellular Mobile System, concept of frequency reuse, Performance criteria,
uniqueness of mobile radio environment, operation of cellular systems, Hexagonal shaped
cells, Analog and Digital Cellular systems. Cell splitting.
HANDOFFS AND DROPPED CALLS:
Handoff, dropped calls and cell splitting, types of handoff, handoff initiation, delaying handoff,
forced handoff, mobile assisted handoff, Intersystem handoff, micro cells, vehicle locating
methods, dropped call rates and their evaluation.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Communication Systems Analog and Digital – R.P. Singh and SD Sapre, TMH, 20th
reprint, 2004.
2. Principles of Communications – H. Taub and D. Schilling, TMH, 2003.
REFERENCES:
1. Electronic Communication Systems – Kennedy and Davis, TMH, 4th edition, 2004.
2. Communication Systems Engineering – John. G. Proakis and Masoud Salehi, PHI,
2ndEd. 2004.
3. Wireless Communication and Networking – William Stallings, 2003, PHI.
4. Wireless Communications, Principles, Practice – Theodore, S. Rappaport, 2nd Ed.,
2002, PHI.
122
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(5CS71) OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING THROUGH JAVA
Course Objectives:
Understand fundamental concepts and constructs of Java
• Implement Different object-oriented Concepts in Java.
• Develop the concepts of Multi-Threading and IO-Streams
• Construct GUI models.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Write Java programs using various programming constructs using java.
• Solve different mathematical problems using OOP Paradigm
• Design and analyze the solutions for Thread and I/O management Concepts.
• Implement the Applications involving GUI models and Events.
UNIT I
FUNDAMENTALS OF OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING:
Object oriented paradigm - Basic concepts of Object Oriented Programming - Benefits of
OOP - Applications of OOP
JAVA EVOLUTION:
Java Features - How Java differs from C and C++ - Java and Internet - Java and World Wide
Web - Web Browsers - Hardware and Software Requirements - Java Environment. Overview
of Java Language: Simple Java Program - Java Program Structure - Java Tokens- Java
Statements - Implementing a Java Program - Java Virtual Machine - Constants - Variables -
Data types - Scope of Variables-Symbolic Constants-Type Casting and type promotions –
Operators, Operator Precedence and Associativity - Control Statements – break - continue-
Arrays-Multi dimensional arrays, Wrapper Classes - Simple examples.
UNIT II
CLASSES:
Classes and Objects - Constructors – methods - this keyword – garbage collection- finalize -
Overloading methods and constructors - Access Control- Static members – nested and inner
classes – command line arguments - variable length arguments.
Inheritance: Forms of inheritance – specialization, specification, construction, extension,
limitation, combination, benefits and costs of inheritance. Super uses- final - polymorphism,
method overriding - dynamic method dispatch –abstract classes – exploring String class.
123
UNIT III
PACKAGES AND INTERFACES:
Defining and accessing a package – understanding CLASSPATH – access protection
importing packages – Interfaces - Defining and implementing an interface, Applying
interfaces, Variables in interfaces and extended interfaces. Exploring java.lang and java.util
packages.
Exception Handling-Fundamentals, usage of try, catch, multiple catch clauses, throw, throws
and finally. Java Built in Exceptions and creating own exception subclasses.
UNIT IV
MULTITHREADED PROGRAMMING:
Java Thread life cycle model – Thread creation - Thread Exceptions - Thread Priority –
Synchronization - Messaging - Runnable Interface - Interthread Communication - Deadlock -
Suspending, Resuming and stopping threads.
I/O STREAMS: File – Streams – Advantages - The stream classes – Byte streams –
Character streams.
UNIT V
APPLET PROGRAMMING:
How Applets differ from Applications - Applet Life Cycle - Creating an Applet - Running the
Applet- Designing a Webpage - Applet Tag - Adding Applet to HTML file - More about Applet
Tag - Passing parameters to Applets - Aligning the display.
EVENT HANDLING:
basics of event handling, Event classes, Event Listeners, delegation event model, handling
mouse and keyboard events, adapter classes, AWT Class hierarchy - AWT Controls - Layout
Managers and Menus, limitations of AWT.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. The Complete Reference Java J2SE 5th Edition, Herbert Schildt, TMH Publishing
Company Ltd, NewDelhi.
2. Big Java 2nd Edition, Cay Horstmann, John Wiley and Sons
REFERENCES:
1. Java How to Program, Sixth Edition, H.M.Dietel and P.J.Dietel, Pearson
Education/PHI
2. Core Java 2, Vol 1, Fundamentals, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell, Seventh
Edition, Pearson Education.
3. Core Java 2, Vol 2, Advanced Features, Cay.S.Horstmann and Gary Cornell,
Seventh Edition, Pearson Education.
124
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(5EI71) PRINCIPLES OF MEASUREMENTS AND INSTRUMENTATION
Course Objectives:
• To provide basic knowledge in transduction principles, sensors and transducer
technology and measurement systems.
• To provide better familiarity with the concepts of Sensors and Measurements.
• To provide the knowledge of various measurement methods of physical parameters
like velocity, acceleration, force, pressure and viscosity.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Able to identify suitable sensors and transducers for real time applications.
• Able to translate theoretical concepts into working models.
• Able to understand the basic of measuring device and use them in relevant
situation.
• Able to estimate the errors in measurement by means of calibrating the different
instruments against the standards.
UNIT I
Introduction to measurements. Physical measurement. Forms and methods of
measurements. Measurement errors. Statistical analysis of measurement data. Probability of
errors. Limiting errors.
Standards. Definition of standard units. International standards. Primary standards.
Secondary standards. Working standards. Voltage standard. Resistance standard. Current
standard. Capacitance standard. Time and frequency standards.
UNIT II
PASSIVE SENSORS:
RESISTIVE SENSORS:
Potentiometers, Strain Gages, Resistive Temperature Detectors (RTDs),Thermistors, Light-
dependent Resistors (LDRs), Resistive Hygrometers , Capacitive SENSORS: Variable
capacitor, Differential capacitor, Inductive Sensors: Reluctance variation sensors, Eddy
current sensors
UNIT III
METROLOGY:
Measurement of length – Plainness – Area – Diameter – Roughness – Angle – Comparators
– Gauge blocks. Optical Methods for length and distance measurements.
125
VELOCITY AND ACCELERATION MEASUREMENT:
Relative velocity – Translational and Rotational velocity measurements – Revolution counters
and Timers - Magnetic and Photoelectric pulse counting stroboscopic methods.
Accelerometers- different types, Gyroscopes-applications.
UNIT IV
FORCE AND PRESSURE MEASUREMENT:
Gyroscopic Force Measurement – Vibrating wire Force transducer.
Basics of Pressure measurement –Manometer types – Force-Balance and Vibrating Cylinder
Transducers – High and Low Pressure measurement
UNIT V
FLOW, DENSITY AND VISCOSITY MEASUREMENTS:
Flow Meters- Head type, Area type (Rota meter), electromagnetic type, Positive displacement
type, Density measurements – Strain Gauge load cell method – Buoyancy method.
Units of Viscosity, Two float viscorator –Industrial consistency meter
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Measurement Systems – Applications and Design – by Doeblin E.O., 4/e, McGraw
Hill International, 1990.
2. Principles of Industrial Instrumentation – Patranabis D. TMH. End edition 1997
REFERENCES:
1. Sensor Technology Hand Book – Jon Wilson, Newne 2004.
2. Instrument Transducers – An Introduction to their Performance and design – by
Herman K.P.Neubrat, Oxford University Press.
3. Measurement system: Applications and Design – by E.O.Doeblin, McGraw Hill
Publications.
4. Electronic Instrumentation by H.S.Kalsi.
126
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective - I 3 0 3
(5IT71) CYBER SECURITY
Course Objectives:
• Identify the key components of cyber security in network
• Describe risk management processes and practices
• Define types of service delivery process and storage management process
• Access additional external resources to supplement knowledge of cyber
forensics and laws
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Categorization of cyber-crime and an understanding social, political, ethical
and psychological dimensions cyber security
• Demonstrate cyber offenses tools, methods used in cyber crime
• Document an appropriate procedure of Risk Management and Security
Standards
• Understanding computer forensics and analyzing them
UNIT-I
INTRODUCTION TO CYBER CRIME: Introduction Cybercrime: Definition and Origins of the
word, Cybercrime and Information Security, Who are Cybercriminals, Classifications of
Cybercrimes, E-mail Spoofing, Spamming, Cyber defamation, Internet Time Theft, Salami
Attack/ Salami Technique, Data Diddling, Forgery, Web Jacking, Newsgroup Spam/ Crimes
Emanating from Usenet Newsgroup, Industrial Spying/Industrial Espionage, Hacking, Online
Frauds, Pornographic Offenses, Software Piracy, Computer Sabotage, E-Mail Bombing/Mail
Bombs, Usernet Newsgroup as the Source of Cybercrimes, Computer Network Intrusions,
Password Sniffing, Credit Card Frauds, Identity Theft, Cybercrime: The Legal Perspectives,
Cybercrimes: An Indian Perspective, Cybercrime and the Indian ITA 2000, Hacking and the
Indian Law(s), A Global Perspective on Cybercrimes, Cybercrime and the Extended
Enterprise.
UNIT-II
CYBER OFFENSES: HOW CRIMINALS PLAN THEM: Introduction, Categories of
Cybercrime, How Criminals Plan the Attacks, Reconnaissance, Passive Attacks, Active
Attacks, Scamming and Scrutinizing Gathered Information, Attack (Gaining and Maintaining
the System Access), Social Engineering, Classification of Social Engineering, Cyber
127
stalking, Types of Stalkers, Cases Reported on Cyber stalking, How Stalking Works?, Real-
Life Incident of Cyber stalking, Cyber cafe and Cybercrimes, Botnets: The fuel for
Cybercrime, Botnet, Attack Vector, Cloud Computing, Why Cloud Computing?, Types of
Services, Cybercrime and Cloud Computing.
UNIT-III
TOOLS AND METHODS USED IN CYBER CRIME: Introduction, Proxy Servers and
Anonymizers, Phishing, How Phishing Works, Password Cracking, Online Attacks, Offline
Attacks, Strong, Weak and Random Passwords, Random Passwords, Keyloggers and
Spywares, Software Keyloggers, Hardware Keyloggers, Antikeylogger, Spywares, Virus and
Worms, Types of Viruses, Trojan Horses and Backdoors, Backdoor, How to Protect from
Trojan and Backdoors, Steganography, Steganalysis, Dos and DDos Attacks, Dos Attacks,
Classification of Dos Attacks, Types of Levels of Dos Attack, Tools Used to Launch Dos
Attacks, DDos Attacks, How to protect from Dos/DDos Attacks, SQL Injection, Steps for
SQL Injection Attack, How to Prevent SQL Injection Attacks.
UNIT-IV
UNDERSTANDING COMPUTER FORENSICS: Introduction, Historical Background of
Cyber forensics, Digital Forensics Science, The Need for Computer Forensics, Cyber
forensics and Digital Evidence, The Rules of Evidence, Forensics Analysis of E-Mail,
RFC2822, Digital Forensics Life Cycle, The Digital Forensics Process, The Phases in
Computer Forensics/Digital Forensics, Precautions to be Taken when Collecting Electronic
Evidence, Chain of Custody Concept, Network Forensics, Approaching a Computer
Forensics Investigation, Typical Elements Addressed in a Forensics Investigation
Engagement Contract , Solving a Computer Forensics Case, Computer Forensics and
Steganography, Rootkits, Information Hiding, Forensics and Social Networking Sites: The
Security/Privacy Threats, Challenges in Computer Forensics, Technical Challenges:
Understanding the Raw Data and its Structure, The Legal Challenges in Computer
Forensics and Data Privacy Issues, Special Tools and Techniques, Digital Forensics Tools
Ready Reckoner, Special Technique: Data Mining used in Cyber forensics, Forensics
Auditing.
UNIT-V
CYBERCRIME AND CYBERTERRORISM: SOCIAL, POLITICAL, ETHICAL and
PSYCHOLOGICAL DIMENSIONS: Introduction, Intellectual Property in the Cyberspace,
Copyright, Patent, Trademarks, Trade Secret, Trade Name, Domain Name, The Ethical
Dimension of Cybercrimes, Ethical Hackers: Good Guys in Bad Land, The Psychology,
Mindset and Skills of Hackers and Other Cybercriminals, Inside the Minds and Shoes of
Hackers and Cybercriminals, Hackers and Cybercriminals: Evolution of Technical prowess
and Skills, Ethical Hackers, Sociology of Cybercriminals, Personality Traits of
Cybercriminals and Younger Generation’s views about Hacking, Information Warfare:
Perception or An Eminent Reality?, Cyberwar Ground is HOT, Cyber Jihadist on the Rise.
128
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Cyber Security- Understanding Cyber Crimes, Computer Forensics and Legal
Perspectives by Nina Godbole and Sunit Belpure, Publication Wiley.
REFERENCES:
1. Management of Information Security, M. E. Whitman, H. J. Mattord, Nelson Education,
CENGAGE Learning, 2011, 3rd Edition.
2. Guide to Computer Forensics and Investigations, B. Nelson, A. Phillips, F. Enfinger,
C. Steuart, Nelson Education / CENGAGE Learning, 2010, 4th Edition
129
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(5AE71) PRINCIPLES OF AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
Course Prerequisites: Physics
Course Objectives:
• Understand the layout of an automobile and functionalities subsystems
• Provide overview on concepts of engine, cooling, lubrication and fuel systems
• Present constructional features and working of automotive driveline and running
systems
• Study the fundamentals and principles of automotive electrical systems
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Explain the functionalities of automotive systems and subsystems
• Give an overview on engine and engine subsystems.
• Describe working of automotive driveline and running systems
• Discuss the concepts of automotive starting, ignition and charging systems
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION:
Classification of automobiles, layout of an automobile, automobile sub systems and their role.
Types of chassis, role and requirement of a chassis frame, types of frames, materials,
loading points and types of bodies.
UNIT II
ENGINE:
Classification and components of an engine, principle and working of four stoke and two
stroke SI and CI engines. Carburetor, diesel fuel injection and introduction to electronic fuel
injection system. Cooling - Necessity of cooling, air-cooling and water cooling. Lubrication –
Mist, splash and forced system.
UNIT III
DRIVE LINE:
Clutches, principle, single plate clutch, multi plate clutch and centrifugal clutch. Gear box -
Need, sliding mesh, constant mesh and synchromesh gear box. Propeller shaft, universal
joint, differential, wheels and tyres.
130
UNIT IV
RUNNING SYSTEMS:
Suspension systems – Objective, rigid axle and independent suspension system and torsion
bar. Steering system – Layout, steering mechanism, steering geometry and steering
gearboxes. Brake system – Principle, stopping distance, types of brakes and actuation.
UNIT V
ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS:
Starting system - Principle, working of different starter drive units and solenoid switches.
Ignition system - Conventional ignition system types, ignition advance and retarding
mechanisms. Charging system - Alternator principle, construction and working, cut-outs and
regulators.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Heinz Heisler, “Advanced Vehicle Technology”. Butterworth Heinemann Publishers,
2002.
2. Crouse W H, “Automobile Electrical Equipment” , McGraw Hill Book Co., Inc., New
York 3rd edition,1986.
REFERENCES:
1. Garrett T K, Newton K. and Steeds W. “Motor Vehicle”, Butter Worths & Co.
Publishers Ltd., New Delhi, 2001.
2. Kholi P L, “Automotive Electrical Equipment”, Tata McGraw Hill Co., Ltd., New
Delhi, 1975.
3. Crouse W H, "Automotive Chassis and Body," McG raw Hill Book Co., 5th edition,
1976.
4. .Giri N K, Automotive Mechanics, Khanna Publications, 2006.
131
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective I 3 0 3
(5BS71) PROFESSIONAL ETHICS AND HUMAN VALUES
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, IT, EIE & AE)
Introduction
Human values and ethics have a significant role to play in the betterment of our society.
Ethics and values are a liberating force, enabling higher performance, better quality
relationships and an expanded sense of purpose and identity. This syllabus aims to present a
framework for understanding human values and their role in life, work, business and
leadership. It aims to transform individuals from having self-focused, survivalist mindset that
has scant regard for ethics, through to compliance with laws and conventions, and then to the
aspiration to live a higher ethical and spiritual life.
It mainly focuses on improving the capacities of leadership /management through training in
human values and professional ethics. It serves to contribute to good governance in the
organizations and foster an environment that supports and encourages just practices and fair
play.
Course objectives:
• Create an awareness on Engineering Ethics and Human Values
• Study the moral issues and decisions confronting individuals and organizations
engaged in engineering profession
• Study the related issues about the moral ideals, character, policies, and
relationships of people and corporations involved in technological activity
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Learn the moral issues and problems in engineering; find the solution to those
problems
• Learn the need for professional ethics, codes of ethics and roles, concept of safety,
risk assessment
• Gain exposure to Environment Ethics & computer ethics; know their responsibilities
and rights
132
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO HUMAN VALUES AND ETHICS HUMAN VALUES:
Morals, Values and Ethics – Integrity – Work Ethic – ServiceLearning – Civic Virtue –
Respect for Others – Living Peacefully – caring – Sharing –Honesty – Courage – Valuing
Time – Co-operation – Commitment – Empathy – Self-Confidence – Character – Spirituality.
INTRODUCTION TO ETHICAL CONCEPTS:
Definition of industrial ethics and values, Ethical rules of industrial worker- Values and Value
Judgments -- Moral Rights and Moral rules 121 -- Moral character and responsibilities --
Privacy, confidentiality, Intellectual property and the law -- Ethics as law.
UNIT II
UNDERSTANDING ENGINEERING ETHICS:
Action Oriented- Ethical Vision- Indian Ethos- Ethics Defined-Engineering Ethics: Various
Connotations of Engineering Ethics, Why Study Engineering Ethics?, Personal and Business
Ethics-Ethics and the Law-Senses of ‘Engineering Ethics’ – Variety of moral issues –Types of
inquiry – Moral dilemmas – Moral Autonomy – Kohlberg’s theory –Gilligan’s theory –
Consensus and Controversy – Professions and Professionalism –Professional Ideals and
Virtues – Theories about right action – Selfinterest –Customs and Religion – Uses of Ethical
Theories -Engineering as a Profession -- Professional Societies -- Core Qualities of
Professional Practitioners -- Professional Institutions, Operating in a Pluralistic Society -
Environments and Their Impact - Economic Environment -- Capital Labor-- Price Levels --
Government Fiscal and Tax Policies – Customers – Technology.
UNIT III
ENGINEERING AS SOCIAL EXPERIMENTATION:
Comparison with Standard Experiments, Knowledge Gained Conscientiousness, Relevant
Information, Learning from the Past, Engineers as managers, consultants, and Leaders,
Accountability, Engineers as responsible Experimenters – Codes of Ethics – A Balanced
Outlook on Law. Engineers and Managers -- Organizational complaint procedures -
Government agencies Resolving Employee concerns – Limits on acceptable behavior in
large corporations -- Ethical and legal considerations, Organizational responses to offensive
behaviour and harassment.
UNIT IV
WORKPLACE RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES PROFESSIONAL RESPONSIBILITY:
The basis and scope of Professional Responsibility -- Professions and Norms of Professional
Conduct -- Ethical Standards versus Profession -- Culpable mistakes -- the Autonomy of
professions and codes of ethics - - Employee status and Professionalism -- Central
Professional Responsibilities of Engineers: The emerging consensus on the Responsibility for
safety among engineers, Hazards and Risks. Safety and Risk – Assessment of Safety and
Risk – Risk Benefit Analysis and reducing risk - Ethical standards vs. Professional conduct -
Collegiality and Loyalty – Respect for Authority – Collective Bargaining –Confidentiality –
Conflicts of Interest – Occupational Crime – Professional Rights –Employee Rights –
Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) – Discrimination - Organizational complaint procedures -
Government agencies - Resolving Employee concerns.
133
UNIT V
ETHICS IN GLOBAL CONTEXT AND GLOBAL ISSUES:
Multinational Corporations – Environmental Ethics – Computer Ethics – Weapons
Development – Engineers as Managers – Consulting Engineers – Engineers as Expert
Witnesses and Advisors – Moral Leadership – Sample Code of Ethics like ASME, ASCE,
IEEE, Institution of Engineers (India), Indian Institute of Materials Management, Institution of
Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers (IETE), India, etc.122.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Ethics in Engineering, Mike Martin and Roland Schinzinger, McGraw Hill. New York
1996.
2. Ethics in Engineering Practice and Research, Caroline Whitbeck, Elsevier.
3. Engineering Ethics, Govindarajan. M, Natarajan. S, Senthilkumar. V.S, Prentice Hall
of India, 2004.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Ethics, Charles D Fleddermann, Prentice Hall, New Jersey, 2004
(Indian Reprint).
2. Engineering Ethics Concepts and Cases, Charles E Harris, Michael S Pritchard and
Michael J Rabins, Thompson Learning, United States, 2000 (Indian Reprint now
available).
3. Ethics and the Conduct of Business, John R Boatright, Pearson Education, New
Delhi, 2003.
4. Fundamentals of Ethics for Scientists and Engineers, Edmund G Seebauer and
Robert L Barry, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2001.
5. Ethics in Engineering, Fourth Edition, Mike W. Martin, Rolan Schinzinger, Mc Graw
Hill publishers.
6. Engineering Ethics-An industrial Perspective, Gail Dawn Baura.
7. Ethics and Values in Industrial-Organizational Psychology, Joel Lefkowitz.
134
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5ME59) PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY LABORATORY
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Production Technology.
Course Objectives:
• Understand and evaluate casting techniques and sand properties.
• Understand different welding processes and their use.
• Understand different press working operations
• Understand about the processing of plastics.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply the knowledge involved in casting techniques..
• Decide the selection of various welding techniques applicable for different
materials.
• Integrate the knowledge involved in press working operations.
• Analyze the techniques involved in processing of plastics.
10 Exercises to be performed from the following:
METAL CASTING:
1. Pattern Design and making - for one casting drawing.
2. Sand properties testing - Exercise -for strengths, and permeability – 2Exercise
3. Moulding, Melting and Casting - 1 Exercise
I. WELDING:
1. Arc Welding Lap and Butt Joint - 2 Exercises
2. Spot Welding - 1 Exercise
3. TIG Welding - 1 Exercise
4. MIG Welding - 1 Exercise
5. Brazing - 1 Exercise
II. MECHANICAL PRESS WORKING:
1. Blanking and Piercing operation s.
2. Bending operation
III. PROCESSING OF PLASTICS:
1. Injection Molding
2. Blow molding
135
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5ME60) HEAT AND MASS TRANSFER LABORATORY
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Heat and mass transfer, thermodynamics.
Course Objectives:
• To analyze various modes of heat transfer experimentally.
• To measure heat transfer through conduction
• To measure heat transfer through natural and forced convection
• To measure heat transfer through radiation
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Identify and analyse the mode of heat transfer.
• Evaluate thermal conductivity of lagged pipe , metal bar and insulating powder
• Evaluate Heat transfer coefficient for natural and forced convection
• Evaluate emissivity of the given metal
Syllabus:
Any 10 experiments to be conducted from the following:
1. Determination of Thermal Conductivity of given Metal Rod.
2. Determination of Stefan Boltzmann Constant.
3. To find out Critical Heat Flux
4. Determination of Overall Heat Transfer coefficient of Composite Wall.
5. Determination of thermal conductivity of Lagged Pipe.
6. Determination of Heat Transfer coefficient in Forced Convection Apparatus.
7. Determination of Heat Transfer coefficient in Natural Convection Apparatus.
8. Determination of Thermal Conductivity of Insulating Powder.
9. Determination of effectiveness of heat exchanger.
10. Measurement of Emissivity of given test plate .
11. Heat Transfer in Dropwise and Film Wise Condensation.
12. Determination of heat transfer coefficient and instantaneous heat transfer rate for
Transient heat Conduction
136
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5ME12) MACHINE TOOLS
Course Prerequisites: Production Technology and Engineering Materials
Course Objectives:
• Understand about the importance of metal cutting and cutting tools nomenclature
• Remember the principle of working of lathe machine, special purpose lathe and it’s
construction, working of reciprocating machine tools, milling and hole making
operations
• Impart the knowledge on various grinding and super finishing operations
• Impart the knowledge of using jigs & fixtures.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Understand the knowledge on metal cutting and be in a position to adopt the suitable
machining process that are suitable for different materials
• Identify various cutting tools and Decide the sequence of operations for Lathe and
it’s types ,shaper, planer, slotting, milling and hole making and other machine tools
operations
• Know the various types of grinding and super finishing operations
• Know the importance of jigs and fixtures for locating and clamping purpose
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION:
Material removal processes, Types of Machine Tools; Nomenclature of Single and multi-point
cutting tools.
METAL CUTTING:
Introduction, Chip Formation, Shear Zone, Orthogonal Cutting, Shear Angle and Its
Relevance, Cutting Tool Materials, Thermal Aspects, Tool Wear and Tool Life, Surface
Finish, Cutting Fluids, Economics.
UNIT II
MACHINE TOOLS:
CENTRE LATHE:
Introduction, Constructional Features of a Centre Lathe, Cutting Tools, Operations Performed
in a Centre Lathe, Taper Turning Methods, Thread Cutting Methods.
137
SPECIAL PURPOSE LATHES:
Limitations of a Centre Lathe, Capstan and Turret Lathes.
RECIPROCATING MACHINE TOOLS:
Introduction about Shaper, Slotter, Planer only.
UNIT III
MILLING
Introduction, Types of Milling Machines, Milling Cutters, Milling Operations.
HOLE MAKING OPERATIONS:
Introduction, Drilling, Reaming, Boring, Tapping.
OTHER MACHINE TOOLS:
Over view of Sawing, Broaching, Gear Hobbing
UNIT IV
GRINDING & SUPERFINISHING PROCESSES:
Introduction, Grinding Wheel – Designation and Selection, Types of Grinding Machines:
Centerless Grinding, Surface Grinding, Cylindrical grinding Processes only, Creep Feed
Grinding, Honing, Lapping and Superfinishing.
UNIT V
JIGS AND FIXTURES:
Introduction, Principles of design of Jigs and fixtures, Principles of location, Locating devices,
Clamping devices.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Manufacturing Technology, Vol. 2, Metal Cutting and Machine Tools by P N
Rao; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Production Technology by HMT; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Manufacturing Engineering and Technology by Serope Kalpak Jian; Publisher:
Pearson Learning.
2. Production Technology by R. K. Jain & S. C. Gupta.
3. Workshop Technology- Vol. 2, by B. S. Raghuvamshi
138
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology, Hyderabad
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5ME13) MECHANICAL ENGINEERING DESIGN – II
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Mechanics, Strength of Materials, kinematics of
machinery and dynamics of Machinery.
Course Objectives:
• Understand different types of bearing and their design, center cranks, crank pins,
crank shafts.
• Understand stresses in curved beams, expression for radius of neutral axis for
rectangular, circular, trapezoidal and T-section, transmission of power by belt and
rope drives, transmission efficiencies.
• Understand the overview of different types of gears and their applications, force
analysis, friction in worm gears etc.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Analyze different types of bearings.
• Apply the knowledge for the design of cranes and engine parts.
• Analyze power transmission drives and evaluate spur and helical gears.
• Apply the design concepts for the design of gear drives.
UNIT I
BEARINGS:
Types of Journal bearings – Lubrication – Bearing Modulus – Full and partial bearings –
Clearance ratio – Heat dissipation of bearings, bearing materials – journal bearing design –
Ball and roller bearings – Static loading of ball and roller bearings, Bearing life, Bearing
selection.
UNIT II
ENGINE PARTS:
Pistons, Forces acting on piston – Construction, design and proportions of piston, Cylinder,
Cylinder liners.
CONNECTING ROD:
Thrust in connecting rod – stress due to whipping action on connecting rod ends – Cranks
and Crank shafts, strength and proportions of over hung & Overview of Center cranks; Crank
pins, Crank shafts.
139
UNIT III
DESIGN OF CURVED BEAMS:
Introduction, stresses in curved beams, Expression for radius of neutral axis for rectangular,
circular, trapezoidal and T-Section. Design of crane hooks, C –clamps.
POWER TRANSMISSIONS SYSTEMS, PULLEYS:
Transmission of power by Belt and Rope drives, Transmission efficiencies, Belts – Flat and V
types – Ropes - pulleys for belt and
rope drives, Materials, Chain drives.
UNIT IV
SPUR AND HELICAL GEAR DRIVES:
Spur gears- Helical gears – Load concentration factor – Dynamic load factor. Surface
compressive strength – Bending strength – Design analysis of spur gears – Estimation of
centre distance, module and face width, check for plastic deformation. Check for dynamic
and wear considerations.
UNIT V
DESIGN OF BEVEL GEAR DRIVES:
Bevel gears – Load concentration factor – Dynamic load factor. Surface compressive
strength- Bending strength – Design analysis of Bevel gears- Estimation of centre distance,
module and face width, check for plastic deformation, Check for dynamic and wear
considerations.
DESIGN OF WORM GEAR DRIVES:
Worm gears – Properties of worm gears – Selection of materials – Strength and wear rating
of worm gears – Force analysis – Friction in worm gears – thermal considerations.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Machine Design by V. Bhandari; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Machine Design by R. L. Norton
REFERENCES:
1. Mechanics of Materials (SI Units) by Beer & Johnson; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
2. Data Books: P.S.G. College of Technology
3. Mechanical Engineering Design by J. E. Shigley
4. Machine Design by R. S. Khurmi & J. S. Gupta; Publisher: Sultan Chand.
5. Machine Design (SI Units) by Schaums Outline Series; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
140
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5ME14) METROLOGY AND QUALITY CONTROL
Course Prerequisites: Machine Drawing, Production Technology, machine tools,
Probability & Statistics.
Course Objectives:
• To understand the knowledge of limits, fits and tolerances
• To understand the use of various measuring instruments
• To understand the concepts of Quality, Quality Control and Statistical Quality Control
• To apply SQC Techniques for problem solving
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Understand about limits and fits.
• Understand about various measuring instruments
• Understand quality, quality control and SQC
• Apply SQC Techniques for problem solving
UNIT I
SYSTEMS OF LIMITS AND FITS:
Introduction, normal size, tolerance limits, deviations, allowance, fits and their types –
unilateral and bilateral tolerance system, hole and shaft basis systems – interchangeability
and selective assembly, Indian standard Institution system – knowledge about international
standards - ISO 9000, 7QC Tools, British standard system.
UNIT II
LINEAR MEASUREMENT : Limit Gauges Taylors principle – Design of go and No go
gauges, plug ring, snap, gap, taper, profile position gauges and slip gauges,.
ANGULAR MEASUREMENT: sine bar, spirit level, angle slip gages and sine plate.
OPTICAL MEASURING INSTRUMENTS:
Tool maker’s microscope and its uses – collimators, optical projector.
SURFACE ROUGHNESS MEASUREMENT:
Differences between surface roughness and surface waviness-Numerical assessment of
surface finish – CLA,R, R.M.S Values – Rz values, Rz value, Methods of measurement of
surface finish-profilograph.
141
UNIT III
SCREW THREAD MEASUREMENT:
Element of measurement – errors in screw threads – measurement of effective diameter,
angle of thread and thread pitch.
GEAR MEASUREMENT:
Gear measuring instruments, Gear tooth profile measurement. Measurement of diameter,
pitch pressure angle and tooth thickness.
UNIT IV
QUALITY CONTROL:
Introduction - quality – quality control – significance- defect and defective – theory of
probability – basic concepts – probability distributions – simple problems. Binomial, passion
and normal distributions-related properties. Tests of hypothesis-type I, Type II errors and
proportions.
UNIT V
STATISTICAL QUALITY CONTROL:
Introduction – significance - elements of quality control – process control – control limits –
representations – control charts – control charts for variables – X and R charts – control
charts for attributes – C and P charts - steps involved in the constructions of control charts –
Acceptance sampling – sampling plans – simple problems – applications and limitations of
SQC.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Engineering Metrology by R.K. Jain; Publisher: Khanna.
2. Total Quality by Armand V. Feigenbaum; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Engineering Metrology by I C Gupta; Publisher: Dhanpat Rai.
2. Probability and Statistics for Engineers - Miller I.R. and Freund J.E, 5th Edition,
Prentice-Hall, 1995.
3. BIS standards on Limits and Fits, Surface Finish, Machine Tool Alignment etc.
4. Statistical Quality Control by Eugene Grant; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
5. Introduction to Statistical Quality Control by D. C. Montgomery; Publisher: John
Wiley Publications.
142
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5EI80) INSTRUMENTATION AND CONTROL SYSTEMS
Course Prerequisites: Metrology
Course Objectives:
• To provide basic knowledge in transduction principles, sensors and transducer
technology and measurement systems.
• To provide better familiarity with the Theoretical and Practical concepts of
automation in industries.
• To provide familiarity with different sensors and their application in real time
applications
• To provide the knowledge of various measurement methods of industrial
parameters like velocity, acceleration, torque, pressure, flow, temperature etc. and
control of the same
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Able to know instrumentation system used in the industry.
• Able to appreciate the automation with the help of instrumentation.
• Able to understand the experimental applications and selecting appropriate
engineering modules.
• Able to develop aptitude for self-learning and modern technical skills beyond the
curriculum.
UNIT I
Definition – Basic principles of measurement – Measurement systems, static characteristics.
MEASUREMENT OF DISPLACEMENT:
Theory and construction of various transducers to measure displacement-Piezo electric,
Inductive, capacitance, resistance, ionization and Photo electric transducers.
MEASUREMENT OF SPEED:
Mechanical Tachometers – Electrical tachometers – Stroboscope, Noncontact type of
tachometer.
MEASUREMENT OF ACCELERATION AND VIBRATION:
Different simple instruments – Principles of Seismic instruments – Vibrometer and
accelerometer using this principle.
143
UNIT II
STRESS STRAIN MEASUREMENTS:
Various types of stress and strain measurements – electrical strain gauge – gauge factor –
method of usage of resistance strain gauge for bending compressive and tensile strains –
usage for measuring torque, Strain gauge Rosettes.
MEASUREMENT OF HUMIDITY:
Moisture content of gases, Sling psychrometer, Absorption psychrometer, Dew point meter.
MEASUREMENT OF FORCE, TORQUE AND POWER:
Elastic force meters, load cells, Torsion meters, Dynamometers.
UNIT III
MEASUREMENT OF TEMPERATURE: Classification – Ranges – Various Principles of
measurement– Expansion, Electrical Resistance – Thermistor – Thermocouple – Pyrometers
– Temperature Indicators.
MEASUREMENT OF PRESSURE: Units – classification – different principles used.
Manometers, Piston, Bourdon pressure gauges, Bellows – Diaphragm gauges. Low pressure
measurement – Thermal conductivity gauges – ionization pressure gauges, Mcleod pressure
gauge.
MEASUREMENT OF LEVEL: Direct method – Indirect methods – capacitative, ultrasonic,
magnetic, cryogenic fuel level indicators – Bubler level indicators.
FLOW MEASUREMENT: Rotameter, magnetic, Ultrasonic, Turbine flow meter, Hot – wire
anemometer, Laser Doppler Anemometer (LDA).
UNIT IV
INTRODUCTION TO CONTROL SYSTEMS:
Introduction - basic components of a control system, control-system applications, open-loop
control systems (without feed-back systems), and closed-loop control systems (with feedback
systems); Example of open loop and closed loop systems. Feedback and its effects - effect of
feedback on overall gain, effect of feedback on stability, and effect of feedback on external
disturbance or noise; Classification of systems, nonlinear characteristics of systems.
UNIT V
SYSTEM MODELING:
Transfer function (TF) Block diagram (BD) reduction techniques, Signal flow graph(SFG), BD
to TF, TF to BD, TF to SFG, SFG to TF conversions, Mathematical Modeling of systems in
translational and rotational motions, Analogy between different types of systems like
electrical, mechanical, pneumatic & hydraulic, DC motor transfer function, signal flow graph,
Working of Potentiometer, tachometer, servo motors, synchros.
144
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Measurement Systems: Applications & design by D. S. Kumar.
2. Mechanical Measurements by Beckwith, Marangoni & Linehard; Publisher: Prentice
Hall International/Pearson Education.
REFERENCES:
1. Measurement Systems: Application and Design, Doeblin Earnest. O. Adaptation by
Manik and Dhanesh; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Instrumentation and Control systems by S. Bhaskar; Publisher: Anuradha Agencies.
3. Mechanical and Industrial Measurements by R.K. Jain; Publisher: Khanna.
4. Instrumentation & Mechanical Measurements by A.K. Tayal; Publisher: Galgotia
5. Instrumentation, Measurement & Analysis by B. C. Nakra & K. K. Choudhary,
Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
145
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(5CE72) INTRODUCTION TO GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEMS
Course Objectives
• To describe and define various concepts of Remote Sensing and GIS.
• To enable the students to analyze data using GIS.
• To make the students appraise the importance of accuracy in GIS.
• To enable the students to apply GIS knowledge in solving various problems in real
world scenario.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Students will be able to describe different concepts and terms used in GIS
• Students will be able to compare and process different data sets
• Students will be able to evaluate the accuracy and decide whether a data set can
be used or not.
• Students will be able demonstrate various applications GIS.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO GIS:
Introduction, History of GIS, GIS Components, GIS Applications in Real life, The Nature of
geographic data, Maps, Types of maps, Map scale, Types of scale, Map and Globe, Co-
ordinate systems, Map projections, Map transformation, Geo-referencing,
UNIT II
SPATIAL DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM:
Introduction: Spatial DBMS, Data storage, Database structure models, database
management system, entity-relationship model, normalization
DATA MODELS AND DATA STRUCTURES:
Introduction, GIS Data model, vector data structure, raster data structure, attribute data, geo-
database and metadata,
UNIT III
SPATIAL DATA INPUT AND EDITING:
Data input methods – keyboard entry, digitization, scanning, conversion of existing data,
remotely sensed data, errors in data input, Data accuracy, Micro and Macro components of
accuracy, sources of error in GIS.
SPATIAL ANALYSIS: Introduction, topology, spatial analysis, vector data analysis, Network
analysis, raster data analysis, Spatial data interpolation techniques
146
UNIT IV
IMPLEMENTING A GIS AND ADVANCED GIS:
IMPLEMENTING A GIS: Awareness, developing system requirements, evaluation of
alternative systems, decision making using GIS
ADVANCED GIS: WebGIS concept, webGIS fundamentals, Potential of web GIS, Server
side strategies, client side strategies, mixed strategies, webGIS applications
UNIT V
APPLICATIONS OF GIS:
GIS based road network planning, Shortest path detection using GIS, Hazard Zonation using
remote sensing and GIS, GIS for solving multi criteria problems, GIS for business
applications, Mineral mapping using GIS.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Introduction to Geographic Information systems by Kang-tsung Chang, McGrawHill
Education (Indian Edition), 7th Edition, 2015.
2. Fundamentals of Geographic Information systems by Michael N. Demers, 4th
Edition, Wiley Publishers, 2012.
REFERENCES:
1. Remote Sensing and GIS by Basudeb Bhatta, Oxford University Press, 2nd Revised
Edition, 2011.
2. Geographic Information systems – An Introduction by Tor Bernhardsen, Wiley India
Publication, 3rd Edition, 2010.
3. Textbook of Remote Sensing and Geographical Information systems by M.Anji
Reddy, B.S. Publications, 4th Edition, 2012.
4. Textbook of Remote Sensing and Geographical Information systems by Kali
Charan Sahu, Atlantic Publishers and Distributors, 1st Edition, 2007.
147
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(5EE72) ENERGY AUDITING CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT
Course Objectives
• To understand the necessity of conservation of Energy.
• To know the methods of Energy management.
• To identity the factors to increase the efficiency of electrical equipment.
• To know the benefits of carrying out energy Audits.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• To conduct Energy Audit of industries.
• To manage energy Systems
• To specify the methods of improving efficiency of electric motor.
• To improve power factor and to design a good illumination system
• To calculate pay back periods for energy saving equipment.
UNIT I
BASIC PRINCIPLES OF ENERGY AUDIT:
Energy audit- definitions, concept , types of audit, energy index, cost index ,pie charts,
Sankey diagrams, load profiles, Energy conservation schemes- Energy audit of industries-
energy saving potential, energy audit of process industry, thermal power station, building
energy audit
UNIT II
ENERGY MANAGEMENT:
Principles of energy management, organizing energy management program, initiating,
planning, controlling, promoting, monitoring, reporting- Energy manager, Qualities and
functions, language, Questionnaire - check list for top management
UNIT III
ENERGY EFFICIENT MOTORS:
Energy efficient motors, factors affecting efficiency, loss distribution, constructional details,
characteristics - variable speed, variable duty cycle systems, RMS hp- voltage variation-
voltage unbalance- over motoring- motor energy audit
UNIT IV
POWER FACTOR IMPROVEMENT, LIGHTING AND ENERGY INSTRUMENTS:
Power factor – methods of improvement, location of capacitors, p.f with non-linear loads,
effect of harmonics on p.f. , p.f motor controllers - Good lighting system design and practice,
148
lighting control, lighting energy audit - Energy Instruments- watt meter, data loggers,
thermocouples, pyrometers, flux meters, tongue testers ,application of PLC’s
UNIT V
ECONOMIC ASPECTS AND ANALYSIS:
Economics Analysis-Depreciation Methods, time value of money, rate of return, present worth
method, replacement analysis, life cycle costing analysis- Energy efficient motors- calculation
of simple payback method, net present worth method- Power factor correction, lighting -
Applications of life cycle costing analysis, return on investment.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Energy management by W.R. Murphy & G. Mckay Butter worth, Heinemann
publications.
2. Energy management by Paul o’ Callaghan, Mc-graw Hill Book company-1st edition,
1998
REFERENCES:
1. Energy efficient electric motors by John .C. Andreas, Marcel Dekker Inc Ltd-2nd
edition, 1995.
2. Energy management handbook by W.C.Turner, John wiley and sons
3. Energy management and good lighting practice: fuel efficiency- booklet12-EEO
149
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(5ME72) OPTIMIZATION TECHNIQUES
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Operation Research
Course Objectives:
• To understand the classification of optimization techniques and its practical use.
• To understand about the optimization of one dimensional optimization methods.
• To knows about constrained minimization methods.
• To understands Geometric and dynamic programings.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply the different types of optimization techniques for different purposes.
• Formulates and solve the problems by using one dimensional unconstrained
minimization methods.
• Formulates and solve the problems (industrial/research) by using the geometric
programming.
• Formulate and solve the industrial problems by using the dynamic programming
methods.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION:
Engineering Applications; Statement of the Optimal Problem: Classification; Optimization
Techniques. Classical Methods: Single Variable Optimization; Multivariable Optimization
without any Constraints with Equality and Inequality Constraints.
UNIT II
ONE-DIMENSIONAL MINIMIZATION METHODS:
Uni-model Function; Elimination Methods – Dichotomous Search, Fibonacce and Golden
Section Methods; Interpolation Methods – Quadratic and Cubic Interpolation Methods.
UNIT III
UNCONSTRAINED MINIMIZATION METHODS:
Univariate, Conjugate Directions, Gradient and Variable Metric Methods. Constrained
Minimization Methods: Characteristics of a constrained problem; Direct Methods of feasible
directions; Indirect Methods of interior and exterior penalty functions.
150
UNIT IV
GEOMETRIC PROGRAMMING:
Formulation and Solutions of Unconstrained and Constrained geometric programming
problems.
UNIT V
DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING:
Concept of Sub-optimization and the principle of optimality; Calculus, Tabular and
Computational Methods in Dynamic Programming; An Introduction to Continuous Dynamic
Programming.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Optimization (Theory & Applications) – S.S. Rao, Wiley Eastern Ltd., New Delhi.
2. Optimization Concepts and Applications in Engineering - Ashok D.Belegundu and
Tirupathi R Chandrupatla -- Pearson Education.
REFERENCES:
1. Optimization: Theory and Practice, C.S.G. Beveridge and R.S. Schechter, MGH,
New York.
2. Genetic Algorithms in search, Optimization and Machine, Goldberg D. E., Addison-
Wesley-NewYork.
3. Optimization for Engineering Design Algorithms and Examples, Kalyanamoy Deb,
Prentice Hall of India.
151
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(5EC72) INTRODUCTION TO MICRO PROCESSORS AND CONTROLLERS
Course Objectives:
• Differentiate various number systems
• Develop simple application using 8085 microprocessors
• Develop simple applications using 8051 microcontrollers
Course outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Understand basic computing concepts
• Know architecture of 8085 micro processors and 8051 Microcontrollers
• Interface peripherals to microprocessor
• Program internal resources of 8051 microcontroller
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO COMPUTING:
Numbering and Coding Systems: Binary, Decimal, Hexadecimal and conversions, Binary and
Hexadecimal Arithmetic, Complements, Alphanumeric codes. Digital Premier, Inside the
Computer
UNIT II
8085 MICROPROCESSOR:
Features, Architecture and operation of 8085, Programming Model, External Memory for
8085
UNIT III
PROGRAMMABLE PERIPHERAL DEVICES:
Programmable Peripheral Interface (8255), USART (8251), Programmable Interval Timer
(8253) and interfacing.
UNIT IV
8051 MICROCONTROLLERS:
Microcontrollers and Embedded Processors, Overview of the 8051 family, Architecture and
Programming Model of 8051, Timers and Counters, parallel and serial ports, Interrupts,
Special Function Register formats, Internal Memory Organization
UNIT V
APPLICATIONS:
8051 Programming in C: Data types for the 8051, programs for IO operations, programs on
Timer operations, Serial IO ports, and interrupts, Case Study: DC Motor Control
152
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Microprocessor Architecture, Programming and Applications with the 8085/8080A,
Gaonkar
2. The 8051 Microcontroller and Embedded Systems: Using Assembly and C, 2nd
Edition, Muhammad Ali Mazidi,Janice Gillispie Mazidi, Rolin D. McKinlay
REFERENCES:
1. The 8051 Microcontroller : programming, architecture by Ayala & Gadre, Cengage
Publications
2. Digital Design – Morris Mano, PHI, 3rd Edition, 2006.
153
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5EC95) WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS AND NETWORKS
Prerequisite: Computer Networks
Course Objectives:
• Understand fundamentals of wireless communications
• Know basics of wireless networks
• Differentiate fixed IP and Mobile IP
• Learn design of basic wireless LAN network
Course outcomes:
After Completion of the course the student is able to
• Understand the fundamental concepts of Cellular communications
• Differentiate various multiple access techniques
• Learn wireless protocols used in wireless Networks
• Understand mobile IP requirements
UNIT I
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS & SYSTEM FUNDAMENTALS:
Introduction to wireless communications systems, examples, comparisons & trends. Cellular
concepts-frequency reuse, strategies, interference & system capacity, trunking and grade of service,
improving coverage &capacity in cellular systems.
UNIT II
MULTIPLE ACCESS TECHNIQUES FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATION:
FDMA, TDMA, SSMA (FHMA/CDMA/Hybrid techniques), SDMA technique (AS applicable to
wireless communications). Packet radio access-protocols, CSMA protocols ,reservation protocols
,capture effect in packet radio , capacity of cellular systems .
UNIT III
WIRELESS NETWORKING:
Introduction, differences in wireless & fixed telephone networks, traffic routing in wireless networks –
circuit switching, packet switching X.25 protocol. Wireless data services – cellular digital packet data
(CDPD), advanced radio data information systems, RAM mobile data (RMD). Common channel
signaling (CCS), ISDN-Broad band ISDN & ATM, Signalling System no .7(SS7)-protocols, network
services part, user part, signaling traffic, services and performance.
154
UNIT IV
MOBILE IP AND WIRELESS APPLICATION PROTOCOL:
Mobile IP Operation of mobile IP, Co-located address, Registration, Tunneling, WAP Architecture,
overview, WML scripts, WAP service, WAP session protocol, wireless transaction, Wireless
datagram protocol.
UNIT V
WIRELESS LAN TECHNOLOGY:
Infrared LANs, Spread spectrum LANs, Narrow bank microwave LANs, IEEE 802 protocol
Architecture, IEEE802 architecture and services, 802.11 medium access control, 802.11 physical
layer.
BLUE TOOTH: Overview, Radio specification, Base band specification, Links manager
Specification, Logical link control and adaptation protocol. Introduction to WLL Technology.
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Wireless Communication and Networking – William Stallings, PHI, 2003.
2. Wireless Communications, Principles, Practice – Theodore, S. Rappaport, PHI, 2nd Edn.,2002.
3. Principles of Wireless Networks – Kaveh Pah Laven and P. Krishna Murthy,Pearson Education,
2002.
REFERENCES:
1. Wireless Digital Communications – Kamilo Feher, PHI, 1999Page 26 of 38
155
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(5CS72) OPEN SOURCE TECHNOLOGIES
Course Objectives:
• Understand Perl, Python, PHP and Ruby to new situations and learn from the experience.
• Assist Perl programmer or database administrator to compile large programming set.
• Incorporate PHP into HTML files, Write basic PHP scripts, Process form input, Write and
use functions.
• Apply advanced techniques, tools, and methodologies that can be used to build complex,
scalable, PHP applications.
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply regular expressions to tokenize and validate data in a variety of languages
• Utilize Ruby to solve a wide range of text processing problems
• Understand the nuances and differences in a web based environment as compared to
more traditional environments
• Distinguish variety of languages to develop interactive web applications
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO PERL:
Scripts and Programs, Origin of Scripting, Scripting Today, Characteristics of Scripting
Languages, Web Scripting, and the universe of Scripting Languages. PERL- Names and
Values, Variables, Scalar Expressions, Control Structures, arrays, list, hashes, strings,
pattern and regular expressions, subroutines, advance Perl - finer points of looping, pack and
unpack, file system, eval, data structures, packages, modules, objects, interfacing to the
operating system, Creating Internet ware applications, Dirty Hands Internet Programming,
security Issues.
UNIT II
PHP BASICS:
PHP Basics- Features Embedding PHP Code in your Web pages, Outputting the data to the
browser, Data types, Variables, Constants, expressions, string interpolation, control
structures . Function, Creating a Function, Function Libraries, Arrays, strings and Regular
Expressions.
UNIT III
ADVANCED PHP PROGRAMMING:
PHP and Web Forms, Files, PHI3 Authentication and Methodologies -Hard Coded, File
Based, Database Based, IP Based, Login Administration, Uploading Files with PHI3, Sending
Email using PHP, PHI3Encryption Functions, the Merypt package, Building Web sites for the
World - Translating Websites- Updating Web sites Scripts, Creating the Localization
156
Repository, Translating Files, text. Generate Binary Files, Set the desired language within
your scripts. Localizing Dates, Numbers and Times.
UNIT IV
PYTHON:
Introduction to Python language, python-syntax,statements,functions,Built-in-functions and
Methods, Modules in python, Exception Handling, Integrated Web Applications in Python -
Building Small, Efficient Python Web Systems ,Web Application Framework.
UNIT V
RUBY:
Basics of Ruby, classes, objects and variable, arrays, Exception Handling ,threads, Regular
Expressions, Strings, Objects in Ruby
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Programming Perl Larry Wall, T.Christiansen and J.Orwant, O’Reiily,SPD.
2. Guide to Programming with Python, M.Dawson, Cengage Learning.
REFERENCES:
1. The Ruby Programming Language 1st Edition by David Flanagan
2. Professional PHP Programming by Jesus M. Castagnetto , Harish Rawat , Deepak
T. Veliath (WROX publication)
3. Perl Power, J.P.Flynt, Cengage Learning.
4. Perl by Example, E, QuigIey, Pearson Education.
5. Programming Ruby: The Pragmatic Programmer's Guide, by Pragmatic Dave
Thomas, Andy Thomas
157
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(5EI72) LABVIEW PROGRAMMING
Course Objectives:
• Understand the new concept in measurement and automation.
• Understand how to control an external measuring device by interfacing a computer.
• Competent in data acquisition and instrument control.
• Program for networking and other applications like Digital image processing control
system and signal processing.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Develop a Virtual Instrument using LabVIEW to communicate with real world.
• Identify salient traits of a virtual instrument and incorporate these traits in their
projects.
• Experiment, analyze and document in the laboratory prototype measurement
• Develop program for application like networking, Digital image processing ,control
system, etc
UNIT I
VIRTUAL INSTRUMENTATION:
Historical perspective, advantages, block diagram and architecture of a virtual instrument,
data-flow techniques, graphical programming in data flow, comparison with conventional
programming. Development of Virtual Instrument using GUI, Active X Programming.
UNIT II
STRUCTURES AND SEQUENCE:
Controlling program execution with structures: While and For loops, Shift registers, Case and
Sequence structure and Sub VI
UNIT III
COMPOSITE DATA AND DISPLAYS:
Arrays and Structures: Two dimension array, Auto Indexing to set the for loop count, Building
arrays with auto indexing, Array Acrobats, Polymorphism, Cluster Order, Cluster to pass
data, Bundling and unbundling cluster, Interchangeable arrays and cluster , Error Cluster and
Error handling functions:
Chart update modes, Single Plot chart, Wiring multiple plot chart, Single Plot verus Multiple
plot data types, The X scroll bar, clearing the chart, Stacked and overlaid plots, Multiple Y
scales and chart history lengths.: Activity: Temperature monitor, Graphing a sine wave, XY
plot to plot a circle, Temperature analysis and 3D graphs.
158
UNIT IV
STRINGS, FILE OUTPUT AND SIGNAL MEASUREMENTS AND GENERATION:
Single line strings, online string updation, Scroll bar, Writing and reading a measurement
file,Writing and reading from a spread sheet,Computer to real world interface using LabVIEW,
Creating Ni DAQ Task in Measurement and Automation Explorer (MAX), Generating code
from MAX, DAQ timing and trigger, Multichannel and continuous acquisition, Streaming Data
file and Counting frequency and events.VI Chassis requirements. Common Instrument
Interfaces: Current loop, RS 232C/ RS485, GPIB.
UNIT V
APPLICATIONS:
Networking basics for office & Industrial applications, VISA and IVI, VI toolsets, Distributed
I/O modules, Development of Control system, Industrial Communication,
Image acquisition and processing,
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Gary Johnson, LabVIEW Graphical Programming, 2nd edition,McGraw Hill,
Newyork, 1997.
2. Lisa K. wells & Jeffrey Travis, LabVIEW for everyone, Prentice Hall, New Jersey,
1997.
REFERENCES:
1. Kevin James, PC Interfacing and Data Acquisition: Techniques for Measurement,
Instrumentation and Control, Newnes,2000.
2. Rick Bitter ,LabVIEW advanced programming technique, 2nd Edition, CRC
Press,2005
3. Jovitha Jerome, Virtual Instrumentation using LabVIEW, 1st Edition, PHI, 2001.
159
VNR VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
III Year B.Tech II Sem L T/P/D C
Open Elective - II 3 0 3
(5EI79) FUNDAMENTALS OF ROBOTICS
Course Objectives
The course is intended for students to:
· Understand the Robot coordinate system and control system
· Learn different types of Robot sensors and actuators
· Identify different types of Robot grippers and their applications.
· Acquire Knowledge on kinematics and vision systems used for different Robots
Course Outcomes
After completion of the course the student is able to:
· Gain knowledge about basic concepts of robots.
· Appreciate the usage of different actuators, sensors and grippers in Robotics.
· Analyze the direct and the inverse kinematic problems.
· Able to identify the applications of Machine Vision in Robotics.
UNIT I:
Basic Concepts:
An over view of Robotics, classification of Robots, Robot Components, Robot degrees of freedom,
Robot Joints, Robot Coordinates, Robot reference frames, Programming modes, Robot
Characteristics.
UNIT II:
Sensors:
Sensor characteristics, Position sensors, Velocity sensors, Acceleration sensors, Force and
Pressure sensors, Torque sensors, Microswitches, Light and infrared sensors, Touch and tactile
sensors, Proximity sensors, Range finders.
Unit III:
Actuators and Grippers:
Characteristics of actuating system, Comparison of actuating systems, Hydraulic actuators,
Pneumatic devices, Electric motors, Magneto-strictive actuators, Shape-Memory Metals, Electro-
active Polymer Actuators.
Classification of Grippers, Drive system for Grippers, Mechanical Grippers, Magnetic Grippers,
Vacuum Grippers, Adhesive Grippers, Hooks and Scoops, Gripper Force analysis and design,
Active and Passive Grippers.
UNIT IV:
Kinematics:
Robots as Mechanisms, Matrix Representation, Homogeneous Transformation Matrices,
Representation of Transformations, Inverse of Transformation Matrices, Forward and Inverse
Kinematics with Equations.
160
UNIT V:
Vision:
Image acquisition, Illumination Techniques, Imaging Geometry, Basic Relationships between Pixels,
Segmentation, Description, Segmentation and Description of 3-D Structures, Recognition,
Interpretation.
TEXT BOOKS
1. Saeed B. Niku ,Introduction To Robotics : Analysis, Control, Applications ,Wiley, 2nd
Edition .
2. Deb.S.R, ”Robotics technology and flexible Automation”, John Wiley
REFERENCES
1. Mikell P Groover, Nicholas G Odrey, Mitchel Weiss, Roger N Nagel, Ashish Dutta,
“Industrial Robotics, Technology programming and Applications", McGraw Hill, 2012.
2. K.S.Fu, R.C.Gonzalez, C.S.G Lee, “Robotics- Control ,Sensing ,Vision and Intelligence
”,McGraw-Hill International Edition.
3. Klafter. R.D, Chimielewski. T.A, Negin. M, “Robotic Engineering–An integrated approach”,
Prentice Hall of India, New Delhi
161
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(5IT72) RELATIONAL DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Course Objectives:
• To describe database management systems (DBMS) concepts and relational data
model.
• To employ DBMS concepts to organize, maintain and retrieve information efficiently
and effectively from a DBMS.
• To discuss the concepts of transactions and transaction processing systems
• To examine the issues and techniques relating to concurrency and recovery in
multi-user database environments
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to
• Describe the fundamental concepts of database management. These concepts
include aspects of database design, database languages, and database-system
implementation.
• Employ the Relational Database Model to understand the Logical and Physical
aspects of the DBMS architecture.
• Analyse and apply normal forms for real time database applications.
• Evaluation of transaction properties and file organization methods
UNIT I
Introduction to Databases and Database Management System - Database system
Applications - Advantages of DBMS over File System - Data Models – Instances and
schema - View of Data - Database Languages -DDL-DML - Database Users and
Administrator - Database System Structure.
UNIT II
Database Design and ER diagrams – Attributes and Entity Sets – Relationships and
Relationship Sets – Constraints - Keys - Design Issues - Entity-Relationship Diagram- Weak
Entity Sets - Extended E-R Features - Database Design with ER model - Database Design
for Banking Enterprise
162
UNIT III
Introduction to the Relational Model – Structure of RDBMS - Integrity Constraints over
Relations – Enforcing Integrity Constraints – Querying Relational Data - Relational Algebra
and Calculus.
Introduction to SQL- Data Definition commands, Data Manipulation Commands, Basic
Structure, Set operations Aggregate Operations - Join operations - Sub queries and
correlated queries, SQL functions , views ,Triggers, Embedded SQL.
UNIT IV
Functional Dependencies– Introduction , Basic Definitions, Trivial and Non trivial
dependencies, closure of a set of dependencies, closure of attributes, irreducible set of
dependencies- Schema Refinement in Database Design- Problems Caused by Redundancy
– Decompositions – Problem Related to Decomposition –- Lossless Join Decomposition –
Dependency Preserving Decomposition - FIRST, SECOND, THIRD Normal Forms – BCNF –
– Multi valued Dependencies – Fourth Normal Form.
UNIT V
Transaction concept- Transaction state- Implementation of atomicity and Durability-
Concurrent executions – Serializability, Recoverability
File Organization – Organization of records in file - Data Dictionary Storage – Indexing and
Hashing – Basic Concepts , Ordered Indices,B+Tree Index files, B- tree index files
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Database System Concepts, Silberschatz, Korth , Fifth Edition, McGraw hill.
2. Introduction to Database Systems, C.J.Date, Pearson Education.
REFERENCES:
1. Fundamentals of Database Systems, Elmasri Navrate Pearson Education
2. Database Management Systems, Raghu ramakrishnan, Johannes Gehrke, TATA
Mc Graw Hill.
3. Data base Systems design, Implementation, and Management, Peter Rob and
Carlos Coronel 7th Edition.
4. Data Base Systems using Oracle : A simplified guide to SQL and PL /SQL, Shah,
PHI
163
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(5AE72) MODERN AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGIES
Course Prerequisites: Principles of automobile engineering
Course objectives:
• Provide an overview on advanced engine control system concepts
• Study the concepts and drivetrain configurations of electric and hybrid electric
vehicles
• Present principle, working and automotive applications of fuel cell and solar
technology
• Aware of intelligent vehicle technologies like navigation, safety, security and
comfort systems
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply advanced engine control system concepts in engineering
• Discuss electric and hybrid electric drivetrain technologies and drivetrain
components
• Describe automotive applications of fuel cell and solar technology
• Appreciate the technological advancements driver assistance systems
UNIT I
ADVANCED ENGINE CONTROLS:
Concept of an electronic engine control system, electronic fuel injection - throttle body fuel
injection, multi point fuel injection, gasoline direct injection, common rail direct injection,
electronic ignition control, engine mapping, on-board diagnostics – engine control module
and powertrain control module.
UNIT II
ELECTRIC AND HYBRID VEHICLES:
Electric vehicles - Layout of an electric vehicle, performance, energy consumption, advantage
and limitations. Hybrid electric vehicles - Concepts, types of hybrid drive train architecture,
merits and demerits.
164
UNIT III
FUEL CELL AND SOLAR VEHICLES:
Fuel cell vehicle – Operating principle, types of fuel cells, fuel cell options for fuel cell vehicle
and fuel cell hybrid vehicle. Solar vehicle - Solar photovoltaic cell, solar array, solar car
electrical system and drive train.
UNIT IV
TELEMATICS AND COMFORT SYSTEMS:
Global positioning system, geographical information systems, navigation system, automotive
vision system, adaptive cruise control system, active suspension system, power steering and
power windows.
UNIT V
SAFETY AND SECURITY SYSTEMS:
Active and passive safety, airbags, seat belt tightening system, collision warning systems,
anti lock braking systems, traction control system, electronic immobilizers, remote keyless
entry, smart card system, number plate coding.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. William B Riddens, “Understanding Automotive Electronics”, 5th edition, Butter worth
Heinemann Woburn,1998.
2. Mehrdad Ehsani, Yimin Gao, Sebastien E. Gay and Ali Emadi, “Modern Electric,
Hybrid Electric and Fuel Cell Vehicles: Fundamentals, Theory and Design”, CRC
Press, 2005.
REFERENCES:
1. “Automotive Hand Book” Robert Bosch, SAE, 5th edition, 2000.
2. Ljubo Vlacic, Michel Parent and Fumio Harashima, “Intelligent Vehicle Technologies”,
Butterworth-Heinemann publications, Oxford, 2001.
3. Iqbal Husain, “Electric and Hybrid Vehicles: Design Fundamentals, CRC Press, 2003.
4. “Navigation and Intelligent Transportation Systems – Progress in Technology”, Ronald
K Jurgen, Automotive Electronics Series, SAE, USA, 1998.
165
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Open Elective II 3 0 3
(5BS72) ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Course objectives:
• To introduce basics of entrepreneurship development and the skills set required for
innovation.
• To understand changing business trends to enhance decision making skills.
• To learn analytical and conceptual skills of identifying opportunities and check on
their feasibility for start-ups.
• To motivate the engineers to choose entrepreneurship as a career for personal and
societal growth.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• To identify business opportunities and equip themselves in preparing business
plans
• To analyze and evaluate different proposals and its requirements for start-up’s.
• To pitch the ideas to launch their own venture.
• To assess the impact of competition and find methods to overcome the problems in
business.
UNIT I
ENTREPRENEURIAL SKILLS-OPPORTUNITIES:
Entrepreneurship as a career, Personality and Skill Set of Entrepreneur, The Wisdom of Five
WHY’s and in action, Value and Growth-Stories of Successful Enterprises.
Innovation and Entrepreneurship: Three Learning Milestones of Innovation: Use of
Minimum Viable Product-Startup’s must tune the baseline towards the ideal-Pivot or
Persevere.
UNIT II
CHANGING BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT-ROLE OF ENTREPRENEUR:
The Role of Quality and Design, Beyond “The right place at the right time”, Current trends in
Business, Entrepreneurial Management.
UNIT III
ORIGINS OF LEAN START-UP-BUSINESS PLANS:
The Concept of Vision to Steering: From Start-Define-Learn-Experiment to Leap-Test-
Measure-Pivot.
166
UNIT IV
VALIDATION OF PROJECTS AND PRODUCTS:
Projects Evaluation by Budgeting Techniques, Value vs Waste, Analogs and Antilogs,
Analysis Paralysis, Why first products are not meant to be perfect-Experiences, Forecasting
and Experimenting of Products.
UNIT V
START-UP METHODS AND UNDERSTANDING COMPETITION:
Accelerating Start-up’s, optimization versus learning, Kanban Diagram of work as it
progresses from stage to stage, the value of three A’s: Actionable, Accessible and Auditable,
Engines of growth to determine product/market fit, adopting smaller batches, reasons for
Failures in Start-up’s, Pricing Strategies Based On Competition
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Eric Ries, “The Lean Startup”, Crown Business, New York. v.3.1.
2. Hisrich, Entrepreneurship, Tata McGraw Hill, New Delhi, 2001.
3. S.S. Khanka, Entrepreneurial Development, S. Chand and Company Limited, New
Delhi, 2001.
REFERENCES:
1. Mathew Manimala, Entrepreneurship Theory at the Crossroads, Paradigms &
Praxis, Biztrantra ,2nd Edition ,2005
2. Prasanna Chandra, Projects – Planning, Analysis, Selection, Implementation and
Reviews, Tata McGraw-Hill, 1996.
3. P.Saravanavel, Entrepreneurial Development, Ess Pee kay Publishing House,
Chennai -1997.
4. Arya Kumar. Entrepreneurship. Pearson. 2012
5. Donald F Kuratko, T.V Rao. Entrepreneurship: A South Asian perspective.
Cengage Learning. 2012
167
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5ME61) MACHINE TOOLS AND METROLOGY LABORATORY
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisite: Machine tools, Metrology and Engineering Materials
Course Objectives:
• Remember the working principles of various machine tools and their
accessories.
• Remember the significance of operating parameters and selection of
cutting tools for performing machining operations.
• Familiarize the calibration and measurement process.
• Impart the knowledge on characteristics of measuring instruments.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Perform various operations on various Machine tools
• Choose the appropriate cutting tools for various machining operations
• Measure the tolerances attained in different machining operations
• Perform analysis on the data attained from measuring instruments
MACHINE TOOLS: Any Six experiments from the following
1. Introduction of general purpose machines - Lathe, Drilling machine, Milling machine,
Shaper, slotting machine, Cylindrical Grinder, Surface grinder and Tool and cutter
grinder.
2. Exercise on Facing, turning, step turning and taper turning on lathe machine
3. Exercise on Grooving, Thread cutting and knurling on lathe machine.
4. Exercise on Drilling, Boring, Counter boring, Counter sinking and Tapping operations
on drilling machine
5. Exercise on Shaping to prepare plain surfaces
6. Exercise on Slotting to prepare contour surfaces
7. Exercise on Milling to perform plain /gear cutting
8. Exercise on Cylindrical Surface Grinding
9. Exercise on Grinding of Tool angles.
168
Demonstration on
Different methods of Taper Turning, Boring, Collar turning, use of four jaw chuck on lathe,
Cutting of V - block on shape, Key way cutting on shaper/milling
METROLOGY: Any Six experiments from the following
1. Measurement of lengths, heights, diameters by vernier calipers micrometers etc.
2. Measurement of bores by internal micrometers and dial bore indicators.
3. Use of gear teeth, Vernier calipers and checking the chordal addendum and chordal
height of spur gear.
4. Machine tool alignment test on a lathe.
5. Machine tool alignment test on a milling machine.
6. Tool makers microscope and its application
7. Angle and taper measurements by bevel protractor, sine bars, etc.
8. Use of spirit level in finding the flatness of surface plate.
9. Thread measurement by two wire/ three wire method or tool makers’ microscope.
10. Surface roughness measurement by TalySurf.
11. Surface wear resistances test using electro spark coating device.
REFERENCES:
1. Workshop Technology by W.A.J. Chapman (Parts I, II, and III); Publisher: Viva Books.
2. The Principles of Metallographic Laboratory Practice by George L. Kehl; Publisher:
McGraw Hill.
169
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5BS03) ADVANCED ENGLISH COMMUNICATION SKILLS LABORATORY
(Common to CE, EEE, ME, ECE, CSE, IT, EIE & AE)
Introduction
This course aims to offer students a practical approach to Technical Writing, and provide a
relevant, contemporary and authoritative introduction to the dynamic field of technical
communication that prepares them for Workplace Communication. Each unit in the syllabus
is devised so as to include a writing component as well as an oral component.
Course objectives:
• Enable the students to create clear, accurate, and succinct content to write business
letters, resume, SOP, Proposals and Technical Reports for academics as well as for
workplace
• Enable students to adjust technical content to meet the needs of a specific target
audience
• Groom students to speak accurately and fluently and prepare them for real world
activities through behavioral skills.
• Train students in soft skills through role play and group discussion to improve their
EQ.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• summarize and synthesize information and produce technical writing that is required
in academics as well as in the engineering profession
• write covering letters, resume, SOP, Project Proposals and Technical Reports
• speak fluently and address a large group of audience and participate in debates and
discussions.
• negotiate terms, manage complex situations through interpersonal skills, persuade
people and make quick decisions.
Methodology
Writing Component
A Process- Genre methodology will be used in teaching the technical genres. This method
would enable students to understand the use of particular lexico-grammatical patterns
required of in the context of technical writing. They would learn to use language to express
the particular communicative intent that is required of in the context of writing these genres.
Syllabus Outline
UNIT I
• Oral Communication :Talking About Yourself
• Applications and Covering letters
• Resume Writing
170
• Verbal Ability: Vocabulary ( Technical and Non-Technical) reading and listening
(analysis and reasoning)
UNIT II
• Oral Communication: Making Presentations
• Writing an SOP
• Summarizing and Synthesizing Information
UNIT III
• Oral Communication: Group Discussions
• Writing Abstracts
UNIT IV
• Oral Communication : Debate
• Writing Reports
UNIT V
Soft Skills
REQUIRED TEXT AND MATERIALS
1. Ashraf Rizvi, M (2005). Effective Technical Communication, Tata Mc Graw Hill
Publishing Company Limited, New Delhi.
2. Anderson, Paul V. (2003). Reports. In Paul V. Anderson's Technical
Communication: A Reader-Centered Approach ( 5th ed..) (pp. 457-473). Boston:
Heinle.
3. William S. Pfeiffer, (2012) Technical Communication: A Practical Approach (7th ed.)
Longman
REFERENCES:
1. Burnett, Rebecca. Technical Communication. 5th Ed., Heinle, 2001.
2. Gerson Sharon J. and Steven Gerson: Technical Writing Process and Product. 3rd
edition, New Jersey: Prentice Hall 1999
3. Markel, Mike. Technical Communication: Situations and Strategies (8th EDITION
(2006-2007)
4. R. C. Sharma and K. Mohan, Business Correspondence and Report Writing, Third
Edition, TMH, 2002. (Indian Edition)
5. M. Raman and S. Sharma, Technical Communication : Principles and Practices,
OUP, 2004. (Indian Edition)
171
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
III Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5EI95) INSTRUMENTATION AND CONTROL SYSTEMS LABORATORY
Course Objectives:
• To make student get hands on experience in active and passive sensors.
• Understand the principles and appreciate the working of controllers, degrees of
freedom, control valves.
• Learn systematic engineering method to solve practical process control problems.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Appreciate the use of sensors.
• Suggest the type of sensors required for any operation.
• Design and develop a simple measuring devices.
• Design and develop a control unit for Francis turbine.
List of Experiments:
1. Measurement of Load using Strain Gauge bridge
2. Measurement of Temperature using Thermistor, RTD and Thermocouple
3. Measurement of Displacement using LVDT, use of LVDT for Capacitance
measurement
4. Measurement of L,C and R using Bridges and comparing them with Q-Meter
5. Characteristics of Opto-Electric Transducers (Photo Transistor, Photo Diode and
LDR)
6. Pressure measurement through Bourdon Tube
7. Radiation and optical Pyrometers
8. Flow level control unit.
9. Temperature level control unit.
10. Servo and regulator operation.
11. Realization of control actions: Pneumatic controllers.
12. Hydraulic controllers.
172
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
3 1 4
(5ME15) FINITE ELEMENT METHOD
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Strength of Materials, Mechancal Vibrations
Course Objectives:
• Quote different concepts of traditional methods to evaluate FEM.
• Summarise the boundary conditions, formulations and other functional approaches of
FEM.
• Demonstrate simulation process using FEM software.
• Explain real life applications in dynamic analysis.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Name and tabulate various approaches leads to FEM to solve a given problem.
• Describe the given problem for finding solution using finite element technique.
• Apply the concept of FEM to solve different field problems.
• Assess real life problems using dynamic analysis.
UNIT I
FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTS:
Introduction; Historical background; Stresses and equilibrium; Boundary conditions; Strain-
displacement relations; Stress-strain relations; Temperature effects.
ONE-DIMENSIONAL PROBLEMS:
Introduction; Finite element modeling; Co-ordinates and shape functions; The potential
energy approach; Rayleigh-Ritz method; Galerkin’s method, The Galerkin approach;
Assembly of the global stiffness matrix (K) and load vector; Properties of K; The finite
element equations; Treatment of boundary conditions; Quadratic shape functions;
Temperature effects.
UNIT II
TRUSSES:
Introduction; Plane trusses; Three-dimensional trusses; Assembly of global stiffness matrix
for the banded and skyline solutions.
173
TWO-DIMENSIONAL PROBLEMS USING CONSTANT STRAIN TRIANGLES:
Introduction; Finite element modeling; Constant strain triangle (CST); Problem modeling and
boundary conditions.
UNIT III
TWO-DIMENSIONAL ISOPARAMETRIC ELEMENTS AND NUMERICAL INTEGRATION:
Introduction; The four-node quadrilateral; Numerical integration; Higher-order-elements.
DYNAMIC ANALYSIS USING FINITE ELEMENT METHOD:
Introduction; Vibration problems; Equations of motion based on weak form; Longitudinal
vibrations of bars; consistent mass matrices; element equations; solution of Eigen value
problems.
UNIT IV
AXISYMMETRIC SOLIDS SUBJECTED TO AXISYMMETRIC LOADING:
Introduction; Axisymmetric formulation; Finite element modeling - triangular element; Problem
modeling and boundary conditions.
STEADY STATE HEAT TRANSFER ANALYSIS:
One dimensional analysis of Slab, fin and two dimensional analysis of thin plate.
UNIT V
BEAMS:
Introduction; Finite element formulation; Hermite shape function, Load vector; Boundary
considerations; Shear force and bending moment; Beams on elastic supports;
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Introduction to Finite Elements in Engineering, 2E, by Tirupathi R. Chandrupatla,
Ashok D. Belegundu; Publisher: Prentice Hall of India.
2. Text book of Finite Element Analysis by Seshu.
REFERENCES:
1. Finite Element Analysis using ANSYS 11.0 by Srinivas et all.
2. Finite Element Method by Zienkiewicz.
3. An Introduction to Finite Element Methods by J. N. Reddy.
4. Finite Element Method by S. S. Rao.
174
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5ME16) CAD/CAM
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Engineering Graphics, Engineering Design, Production technology
Course Objectives:
• Understand the mathematics behind the transformations and projections in design
of products on CAD devices.
• Know the various types of modeling and drafting.
• Learn the fundamentals of part programming required for manufacturing a product.
• Appreciate the integration of design and manufacturing functions through CAD and
CAM.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Select the types of computer devices and solve the problems on transformations
and use them in CAD software.
• Compare the different types of models and perform drafting.
• Prepare part programs involving various operations for the manufacturing
of simple and complex products.
• Integrate the knowledge learnt in CAD and CAM.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION:
Computers in Industrial Manufacturing, Product cycle, CAD and CAM, Overview of CAD /
CAM Hardware, Display devices, Hard copy devices.
COMPUTER GRAPHICS:
Raster scan graphics, Coordinate systems, Database structure for graphics modeling,
Transformation of geometry, 3D Transformations, Mathematics of projections, Clipping,
Hidden surface removal.
UNIT II
GEOMETRIC MODELING:
Geometric models, Geometric construction methods, Curve representation, Surface
representation methods, Modeling facilities desired, Solid modeling.
175
DRAFTING SYSTEMS:
Basic geometric commands, Layers, Display control commands, Editing, Dimensioning.
UNIT III
COMPUTER NUMERICAL CONTROL:
Introduction to NC machines and CNC machines, Structure of CNC machine tools, Features
of Machining center, Concept of ATC & APC, Feedback control.
CNC PART PROGRAMMING:
Fundamentals, Introduction to G & M codes, Manual part programming methods, Computer
Aided Part Programming.
UNIT IV
GROUP TECHNOLOGY:
Philosophy of Group Technology, Part families, Methods of Parts Classification and Coding,
Advantages and Limitations.
COMPUTER AIDED PROCESS PLANNING:
Introduction, Retrieval type and Generative type, Benefits.
UNIT V
COMPUTER AIDED QUALITY CONTROL:
Introduction, Terminology in quality control, The computer in QC, Contact inspection
methods, Noncontact inspection methods-optical and nonoptical, Computer aided testing,
Integration of CAQC with CAD/CAM.
COMPUTER INTEGRATED MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS:
Introduction, Types of Manufacturing systems, Machine tools and related equipment, Material
handling systems, Computer Control Systems, Human labor in the manufacturing systems,
CIMS benefits.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. CAD / CAM by A. Zimmers and P. Groover; Publisher: Prentice Hall
International/Pearson Education.
2. CAD/CAM Principles and Applications by P N Rao; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill
REFERENCES:
1. CAD / CAM Theory and Practice by Ibrahim Zeid; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill
2. Automation, Production Systems and Computer integrated Manufacturing by
Groover; Publisher: Pearson Education.
3. CAD / CAM / CIM by Radhakrishnan and Subramanian; Publisher: Pearson
Education
176
4. Principles of Computer Aided Design and Manufacturing by Farid Amirouche;
Publisher: Pearson Education
5. CAD/CAM: Concepts and Applications by Alavala; Publisher: Prentice Hall
International
177
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5ME17) OPERATIONS RESEARCH
Course Prerequisites: Mathematics, Industrial Engineering
Course Objectives:
• To analyze linear programming models in practical and their practical use.
• To apply the Transportation, Assignment and sequencing models and their solution
methodology for solving problems
• To apply the Theory of games, Replacement, Inventory and Queuing models and
their solution methodology for solving problems.
• To evaluate the Dynamic programming and simulation models.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Analyze Assignment, Transportation, Sequencing, Replacement, Inventory and
Queuing problems.
• Apply Theory of games in various applications.
• Evaluate the Problems using Linear Programming.
• Apply dynamic programming problem solving and simulation models.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION:
Origin, Development-Definition-Characteristics and Phases-Types of OR models-
applications, limitations.
ALLOCATION:
Linear Programming Problem Formulation- Graphical solution-Simplex method-Artificial
variables technique-Two phase method, Big-M Method-Duality Principle.
UNIT II
TRANSPORTATION PROBLEM:
Formulation-Optimal solution-unbalanced transportation problem-Degeneracy. Assignment
problem-Formulation-Optimal solution-Variations of Assignment Problem-Travelling
Salesman Problem.
Sequencing: Introduction-Flow Shop sequencing-n jobs through two machines-n jobs through
three machines-Job shop sequencing-two jobs through m machines.
178
UNIT III
REPLACEMENT:
Introduction-Replacement of items that deteriorate with time-when money value is not
counted and counted-Replacement of items that fail completely, group replacement.
THEORY OF GAMES:
Introduction-Minimax (maximin) - criterion and optimal strategy-Solution of games with saddle
points-Rectangular games without saddle points-principles of dominance-M X 2and 2 X n
games-graphical method.
UNIT IV
WAITING LINES:
Introduction-Single channel-Poisson arrivals-exponential service times-with infinite population
and finite population models-Multichannel-Poisson arrivals-exponential service times with
infinite population single channel Poisson arrivals.
INVENTORY:
Introduction-Single item-Deterministic models-Purchase inventory models with one price
break and multiple price breaks-shortages not allowed-Stochastic models-demand may be
discrete variable or continuous variable-Instantaneous production, Instantaneous demand
and continuous demand and no set up cost-single period model.
UNIT V
DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING:
Introduction-Terminology-Bellman’s Principle of optimality- Applications of dynamic
programming- shortest path problem-linear programming problem.
SIMULATION:
Definition-Types of simulation models-phases of simulation-applications of simulation-
Inventory and Queuing problems-Advantages and Disadvantages-Brief Introduction of
Simulation Languages.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Operations Research by J.K.Sharma; Publisher: Mac Milan.
2. Operations Research by R. Pannerselvam; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
REFERENCES:
1. Operations Research by A. M. Natarajan, P.Balasubramani, A.Tamilarasi;
Publisher: Pearson Education.
2. Operations Research: Methods and Problems by Maurice Saseini, Arthur Yaspan
and Lawrence Friedman.
3. Introduction to OR by Taha; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
179
4. Operations Research by Wagner; Publisher: Prentice Hall International.
5. Operations Research by S.D.Sharma-Kedarnath.
180
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech ME I Semester L T/P/D C
Elective I 3 0 3
(5ME74) REFRIGERATION AND AIR CONDITIONING
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Thermodynamics, Heat & Mass Transfer.
Course Objectives:
• Apply the fundamentals of Thermodynamics and its relative laws and effect on the
system.
• Analyze the concept of Heat and Mass Transfer on the system.
• Evaluate performance of various thermodynamic cycles used in RAC
• Evaluate the performance of vapour compression and vapour absorption system
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Develop and analyze a system which totally based on the refrigeration concept.
• Apply the basic principles on the Thermodynamics to solve an engineering
problem related to Refrigeration and Air conditioning.
• Select suitable Refrigeration cycle and apply the concept of Heat and Mass
Transfer and obtain the result.
• Develop and Evaluate the performance of air conditioning system
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO REFRIGERATION: Necessity and applications – Unit of refrigeration
and C.O.P. – Mechanical Refrigeration – Types of Ideal cycles of refrigeration. Air
Refrigeration: Bell Coleman cycle and Brayton Cycle, Open and Dense air systems –
Actual air refrigeration system problems – Refrigeration needs of Air crafts. Refrigerants –
Desirable properties – classification refrigerants used – Nomenclature – Ozone Depletion–
Global Warming .
UNIT II
Vapour compression refrigeration – working principle and essential components of the plant
– simple Vapour compression refrigeration cycle – COP – Representation of cycle on T-S
and p-h charts – effect of sub cooling and super heating – cycle analysis – Actual cycle
Influence of various parameters on system performance – Use of p-h charts – numerical
Problems.
181
SYSTEM COMPONENTS: Compressors – General classification – comparison –
Advantages and Disadvantages. Condensers – classification – Working Principles
Evaporators – classification – Working Principles Expansion devices – Types – Working
Principles.
UNIT III
Vapor Absorption System – Calculation of max COP – description and working of NH3 –
water system and Li Br –water ( Two shell & Four shell) System. Principle of operation
Three Fluid absorption system, salient features.
Steam Jet Refrigeration System – Working Principle and Basic Components. Principle and
operation of (i) Thermoelectric refrigerator (ii) Vortex tube or Hilsch tube.
UNIT IV
INTRODUCTION TO AIR CONDITIONING: Psychometric Properties & Processes –
Characterization of Sensible and latent heat loads –– Need for Ventilation, Consideration of
Infiltration – Load concepts of RSHF, GSHF- Problems, Concept of ESHF and ADP.
Requirements of human comfort and concept of effective temperature- Comfort chart –
Comfort Air conditioning – Requirements of Industrial air conditioning , Air conditioning
Load Calculations.
UNIT V
Air Conditioning systems - Classification of equipment, cooling, heating humidification and
dehumidification, filters, grills and registers, fans and blowers. Heat Pump – Heat sources –
different heat pump circuits.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning / CP Arora / TMH.
2. A Course in Refrigeration and Air conditioning / SC Arora & Domkundwar /
Dhanpatrai.
REFERENCES:
1. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning / Manohar Prasad / New Age.
2. Principles of Refrigeration - Dossat / Pearson Education.
3. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning-P.L.Bellaney.
4. Basic Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning – Ananthanarayanan / TMH.
5. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning – R.S. Khurmi & J.K Gupta – S.Chand –
Eurasia Publishing.
182
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Elective I 3 0 3
(5ME74) AUTOMATION & ROBOTICS
Course Prerequisites: Production technology, control power systems, mathematics,
kinematics of machinery.
Course Objectives:
• To analyze the concepts of automation and robotics and components, end effectors of
robots.
• To evaluate the motion analysis, kinematics, dynamics and types of robot motions.
• To study the different actuators and sensors used to control the robots.
• To analyze the basics of robot programming, its languages and the industrial
applications of robots.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Evaluate the positions, angles of the manipulators given the required motion analysis,
kinematics, dynamics and trajectory planning concepts.
• Analyze the different types of feedback components and sensors used in robots.
• Create and analyse the program for a robot using the programming languages.
• Analyze the applications of robots in manufacturing by studying different work cells of
the robots.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION:
Basic principles of automation, Hard Automation, Flexible Automation, basic elements of
automated system, levels of automation. Automation & Robotics, An overview of Robotics,
Classification by Coordinate Systems and control systems. Components of the Industrial
Robotics: Degrees of freedom, End effectors – Mechanical gripper, Magnetic, Vacuum cup
and other types of grippers, General consideration on gripper selection and design.
Motion Analysis: Basic rotation matrices, Composite rotation matrices, Euler angles,
Equivalent angle and axis, Homogeneous transformation, Problems.
183
UNIT II
KINEMATICS AND DYNAMICS:
Manipulator Kinematics: D-H notations, Joint coordinates and world coordinates, Forward
and Inverse kinematics, Problems.
Differential Kinematics: Differential kinematics of planar and spherical manipulators,
Jacobians, Problems.
Robot Dynamics: Lagrange-Euler formulations, Newton-Euler formulations, Problems on
planar two link manipulators.
UNIT III
TRAJECTORY PLANNING:
Joint space scheme, Cubic polynomial fit, Avoidance of obstacles, Types of motions: Slew
motion, Joint interpolated motion, Straight line motion, Problems.
UNIT IV
ROBOT ACTUATORS AND FEEDBACK COMPONENTS:
Actuators – Pneumatic, Hydraulic and Electric actuators, DC Servo motors, Stepper motors.
Feedback components – Position sensors, Potentiometers, Resolvers and Encoders, Velocity
sensors, Tactile sensors.
UNIT V
ROBOT PROGRAMMING AND LANGUAGES:
Lead through programming, Motion programming, Motion interpolation, Robot
programming language, interlock and sensor commands, Simulation and Off-Line
programming.
ROBOT APPLICATIONS IN MANUFACTURING:
Material Handling and transfer, Welding, Assembly, Inspection, Future applications
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Industrial Robotics by M. P. Groover; Publisher: Pearson Education
2. Introduction to Robotic Mechanics and Control, by J. J. Craig, Publisher: Pearson
Education
REFERENCES:
1. Robot Dynamics and Control by M.W.Sponge and M.Vidyasagar; Publisher: John
Wiley.
2. Robotics by K.S.Fu; Publisher: McGraw Hill.
3. Robotic Engineering by Richard Klafter, Publisher: Prentice Hall.
4. Robot Analysis and Intelligence by Asada & Slotine, Publisher: Wiley Interscience.
5. Robotics & Control by Mittal R. K. & Nagrath I. J., Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
184
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 0 3
(5ME75) THEORY OF METAL CUTTING
Course Prerequisites: Production technology, Machine tools
Course Objectives:
• Evaluate the cutting tools geometry and their areas of application based on principles
of metal cutting.
• Analyze cutting forces, cutting temperature and their measurement.
• Evaluate tool wear, replacement strategy, tool materials and their properties.
• Analyze the economics of machining.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Analyze a cutting tool, its geometry and arrive at the cutting process.
• Create a cutting tool material and appropriate material to be cut.
• Apply the methods of measuring the cutting forces, temperature and their
significance
• Apply a cutting tool with optimal tool life to maximize material removal rate.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION:
Mechanics of Metal Cutting: Mechanism of chip formation, Orthogonal and Oblique cutting,
Determination of shear plane angle, forces on the chips, forces in orthogonal cutting,
merchant circle diagram and analysis, co-efficient of friction, power and energy relationship,
velocity relationship, shear-strain relationship, factors affecting forces and power, types of
chips, built-up edge, problems.
UNIT II
MEASUREMENT OF CUTTING FORCES:
Reasons for measuring cutting forces, Classification of cutting force dynamometers –
mechanical, piezoelectric, and strain gage type dynamometers, Dynamometers for lathe,
drilling, and milling, Calibration of dynamometers.
TOOL WEAR, TOOL LIFE:
Mechanisms of tool wear, Sudden, gradual wear, crater wear, flank wear, tool failure criteria,
tool life equations, effect of process parameters on tool life.
185
UNIT III
GEOMETRY OF CUTTING TOOLS:
Single point and multi point cutting tools, tools in hand nomenclature, tool point reference
systems, tool angle specifications – ISO and ASA systems, conversion from one system to
another. Effect of cutting parameters on tool geometry.
TOOL MATERIALS AND THEIR PROPERTIES:
Characteristics of tools materials, types of tool materials – carbon tool steels, high speed
steels, cast alloys, cemented carbides, ceramics, diamonds, sialon, CBN, UCON,
recommended cutting speeds for the above tools.
UNIT IV
THERMAL ASPECTS IN METAL CUTTING:
Heat sources in metal cutting, temperature in chip formation, temperature distribution,
experimental determination of tool temperatures.
CUTTING FLUIDS:
Basic actions of cutting fluids, properties of cutting fluids, selection of cutting fluids,
application of cutting fluids, recommended cutting fluids.
UNIT V
ECONOMICS OF MACHINING:
Introduction, elements of total production cost, optimum cutting speed and tool life for
minimum cost, optimum cutting speed and tool life for maximum production, problems.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Principles of Metal Cutting by G. C. Sen and A. Bhattacharya; Publisher: New
Central Book Agency.
2. Metal Cutting Principles by M C Shaw; Publisher: Oxford and IBH Publications
REFERENCES:
1. Fundamentals of Machining by Boothroyd; Publisher: Edward Amold
2. Metal Cutting Theory and Cutting Tool Design by V. Arshinov & G. Alekseev;
Publisher: Mir Publishers, Moscow
3. Fundamentals of Metal Cutting and Machine tools by B. L. Juneja, G. S. Sekhom &
Nitin Seth; Publisher: New Age International
4. Principles of Metal Cutting by G. Kuppuswamy; Publisher: Universities Press
186
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 0 3
(5ME76) QUALITY ENGINEERING IN MANUFACTURING
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Statistics, Statistical Quality Control.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the types of factors and principles of Quality Loss Function.
• Understand the robust design methodology in solving practical engineering problems.
• Comprehend the various quality control tools.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Value the concept of quality, use quality tools and obtain the quality loss.
• Utilize the analytical techniques to find out the variation in the data and obtain
optimal results.
• Select and use the proper orthogonal arrays in designing, conducting and analyzing
the experiments.
• Formulate parameter and tolerance design strategies.
UNIT I
QUALITY VALUE AND ENGINEERING:
An overall quality system, Quality engineering in product design, Quality engineering in design of
production processes, Quality engineering in production.
LOSS FUNCTION AND QUALITY LEVEL:
Derivation and use of Quality Loss Function (QLF), Economic consequences of tightening
tolerances as a means to improve quality, Evaluations and types tolerances - N-type, S-type and
L-type.
UNIT II
ANALYSIS OF VARIANCE (ANOVA):
No - way ANOVA, One-way ANOVA, Two-way ANOVA, Critique of F-test, ANOVA for four level
factors.
UNIT III
ORTHOGONAL ARRAYS:
Introduction to OA, Degrees of Freedom, Structure of OA, Linear Graphs & Interaction tables,
Strategies in Experimentation - Typical test strategies, Better test strategies & Efficient test
strategies, Steps in designing, conducting and analyzing an experiment.
INTERPOLATION OF EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS:
Interpretation methods, Percent contribution, Estimating the mean.
187
UNIT IV
TOLERANCE DESIGN AND TOLERANCING:
Functional limits, Tolerance design for N-type, L-type and S-type characteristics, Tolerance
allocation for multiple components.
PARAMETER AND TOLERANCE DESIGN:
Introduction to parameter design, Signal to noise ratios, Parameter design strategy, Some of the
case studies on parameter and tolerance designs.
UNIT V
QUALITY TOOLS:
ISO-9000 Quality System, Business Process Re-engineering (BPRE), Six-sigma, Bench making,
Quality circles, Brain Storming, Fishbone diagram.
TEXT BOOK:
1. Taguchi Techniques for Quality Engineering /Phillip J. Ross/ McGraw Hill, Intl. II Edition,
1995.
2. Quality Engineering in Production systems / G. Taguchi, A- Elsayed et al / McGraw Hill
Intl. Edition, 1989.
REFERENCES:
1. Quality Engineering using Robust Design / Madhav S. Phadke / Pearson Education.
2. Total Quality Management / Poornima M. Charantimath / Pearson Education.
3. Taguchi Methods explained: Practical steps to Robust Resign / Tapan P. Bagchi /
Prentice Hall Ind Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi.
188
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 0 3
(5ME77) COMPUTATIONAL FLUID DYNAMICS
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisite: C Programming skills, Numerical Methods, Fluid
Mechanics.
Course Objectives:
• familiar with the differential equations for flow phenomena and numerical methods
for their solution
• Understand different methods involved in solving problem numerically.
• Formulate different kinds of physical problems with the different schemes and
boundary conditions.
• Develop a code in a programming language to numerically solve a practical
problem.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Solve fluid flow and heat transfer problems using numerical methods &
Programming.
• critically analyze different mathematical models and computational methods for flow
simulations
• Write algorithms to solve the complex non linear equations numerically and able to
do a project demonstrating your understanding
• Conduct the stability analysis and check the applicability of different schemes.
UNIT I
ELEMENTARY DETAILS IN NUMERICAL TECHNIQUES:
Number system and errors, representation of integers, fractions, floating point arithmetic, loss
of significance and error propagation, condition for instability, computational methods for error
estimation, convergence of sequences.
APPLIED NUMERICAL METHODS:
Solution of a system of simultaneous Linear Algebraic Equations, iterative schemes of Matrix
Inversion, Direct Methods for Matrix inversion, Direct Methods for banded matrices.
189
UNIT II
FINITE DIFFERENCE APPLICATIONS IN HEAT CONDUCTION AND CONVECTION:
Heat conduction, steady heat conduction in a rectangular geometry, transient heat
conduction, finite difference application in convective heat transfer, closure.
Finite Differences, discretization, consistency, stability, and Fundamentals of fluid flow
modeling: Introduction, elementary finite difference quotients, implementation aspects of
finite-difference equations, consistency, explicit and implicit methods.
UNIT III
INTRODUCTION TO FIRST ORDER WAVE EQUATION:
Stability of hyperbolic and elliptic equations, fundamentals of fluid flow modeling,
conservative property, the upwind scheme.
UNIT IV
REVIEW OF EQUATIONS GOVERNING FLUID FLOW AND HEAT TRANSFER:
Introduction, conservation of mass, Newton’s second law of motion, expanded forms of
Navier-stokes equations, conservation of energy principle, special forms of the Navier-stokes
equations.
UNIT V
FINITE VOLUME METHOD:
Approximation of surface integrals, volume integrals, interpolation and differentiation
practices, upwind interpolation, linear interpolation and quadratic interpolation.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Numerical Heat Transfer and Fluid Flow / Suhas V. Patankar/Hemashava
Publishers Corporation &McGraw Hill.
2. Computational Fluid Flow and Heat Transfer/ Muralidaran/Narosa Publications.
REFERENCES:
1. Computational Fluid Dynamics: Basics with applications/John D. Anderson/
McGraw Hill.
2. Fundamentals of Computational Fluid Dynamics/Tapan K. Sengupta / Universities
Press.
3. Introduction to Theoretical and Computational Fluid Dynamics/C. Pozrikidis/Oxford
University Press/2nd Edition.
190
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 0 3
(5ME78) MECHANICAL VIBRATIONS
Course Prerequisites: Design of Machine Members, Engineering Mechanics, Maths
Course Objectives:
• Remember and appreciate the importance of vibrations in mechanical design of
machine parts that operate in vibratory conditions.
• Create linear vibratory models of dynamic systems with changing complexities
(SDOF, MDOF).
• Formulate the differential equations of motion of vibratory systems.
• Determine a complete solution to the modeled mechanical vibration problems.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply vibration analysis in mechanical design of machine parts that operate in
vibratory conditions.
• Evaluate at linear mathematical models of real life engineering systems.
• Analyze the mathematical model of linear vibratory system to determine its
response.
• Analyze vibration of continuous system under various conditions
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION:
Introduction to vibrations & basic concepts
SINGLE DEGREE OF FREEDOM SYSTEMS – I:
Undamped and damped free vibrations, Forced vibrations, Coulomb damping, Response to
excitation, Rotating unbalance and support excitation, Vibration isolation and transmissibility.
UNIT II
SINGLE DEGREE OF FREEDOM SYSTEMS – II:
Response to non periodic excitations, Unit impulse, Unit step and unit ramp functions,
Response to arbitrary excitations, The convolution integral, Shock spectrum, System
response by the Laplace Transformation method.
UNIT III
VIBRATION MEASURING INSTRUMENTS:
Vibrometers, Velocity meters & Accelerometers.
191
NUMERICAL METHODS:
Rayleigh Stodola matrix iteration, Rayleigh Ritz method and Holzer method.
UNIT IV
TWO DEGREE FREEDOM SYSTEMS:
Principal modes, Undamped and damped free and forced vibrations, Undamped vibration
absorbers.
MULTI DEGREE FREEDOM SYSTEMS:
Matrix formulation, Stiffness and flexibility influence coefficients, Eigen value problem, Normal
modes and their properties, Free and forced vibration by Modal analysis, Method of matrix
inversion, Torsional vibrations of multi-rotor systems and geared systems, Discrete time
systems.
UNIT V
CONTINUOUS SYSTEM:
Free vibration of strings, Longitudinal oscillations of bars, Traverse vibrations of beams,
Torsional vibration of shafts.
CRITICAL SPEEDS OF SHAFTS:
Critical speeds without and with damping, secondary critical speed.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Fundamentals of Vibrations by Leonard Meirovitch; Publisher: McGraw Hill
2. Mechanical Vibrations by Groower G. K
REFERENCES:
1. Mechanical Vibrations by Rao V Dukkipati & J. Srinivas, Publisher: Prentice Hall
2. Vibration Problems in Engineering by S. P. Timoshenko
3. Mechanical Vibrations by S.Graham Kelly; Publisher: Schaum’s Outline, TMH
4. Mechanical Vibrations by Rao S. S., Publisher: Pearson
5. Mechanical Vibrations SETO Schaumm Series, Mc Graw Hil Publications.
192
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 0 3
(5ME79) ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING
Course Prerequisites: Metrology, Manufacturing Technology, solid modeling.
Course Objectives:
• To know the principle methods, areas of usage, possibilities and limitations as well
as environmental effects of the Additive Manufacturing technologies
• To be familiar with the characteristics of the different materials those are used in
Additive Manufacturing.
• Understand the operating principals, capability, and limitations of state-of-the-art
Method.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Compare different method and discuss the effects of the Additive Manufacturing
technologies and analyse the characteristics of the different materials in Additive
Manufacturing.
• Understanding the application of Rapid Prototyping and Additive Manufacturing
systems.
• Able to produce a component on a Rapid Prototyping/ Additive Manufacturing
systems.
• Selection of appropriate Additive Manufacturing process for advance components.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION:
Overview – History - Need-Classification -Additive Manufacturing Technology in product
development- Materials for Additive Manufacturing Technology – Tooling - Applications.
UNIT II
CAD & REVERSE ENGINEERING:
Basic Concept – Digitization techniques – Model Reconstruction – Data Processing for
Additive Manufacturing Technology: CAD model preparation – Part Orientation and support
generation – Model Slicing –Tool path Generation – Softwares for Additive Manufacturing
Technology: MIMICS, MAGICS.
193
UNIT III
LIQUID BASED ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS:
Classification – Liquid based system – Stereolithography Apparatus (SLA)- Principle,
process, advantages and applications
UNIT IV
SOLID BASED ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS:
Solid based system –Fused Deposition Modeling - Principle, process, advantages and
applications, Laminated Object Manufacturing
UNIT V
POWDER BASED ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS:
Selective Laser Sintering – Principles of SLS process - Process, advantages and
applications, Three Dimensional Printing - Principle, process, advantages and applications-
Laser Engineered Net Shaping (LENS), Electron Beam Melting.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Chua C.K., Leong K.F., and Lim C.S., “Rapid prototyping: Principles and
applications”, Third Edition, World Scientific Publishers, 2010.
2. Gebhardt A., “Rapid prototyping”, Hanser Gardener Publications, 2003.
REFERENCES:
1. Liou L.W. and Liou F.W., “Rapid Prototyping and Engineering applications : A tool
box for prototype development”, CRC Press, 2007.
2. Kamrani A.K. and Nasr E.A., “Rapid Prototyping: Theory and practice”, Springer,
2006.
3. Hilton P.D. and Jacobs P.F., “Rapid Tooling: Technologies and Industrial
Applications”, CRC press, 2000.
194
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
Elective II 3 0 3
(5ME80) PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE MANAGEMENT
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisite: Mathematics, computers and use of software’s packages.
Course Objectives:
• Understand PLM Strategies.
• Understand the principles of product life cycle.
• Understand business process.
• Understand importance of forecasting.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Forecast the demand of the product.
• Develop a new product strategy.
• Predict the life cycle of product.
• Interpret the life cycle process of individual items.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO PLM:
Need for PLM, opportunities and benefits of PLM, different views of PLM, components of
PLM, phases of PLM, PLM feasibility study, PLM visioning.
PLM STRATEGIES:
Industrial strategies, strategy elements, its identification, selection and implementation,
change management for PLM.
UNIT II
PRODUCT DATA MANAGEMENT(PDM):
PDM systems and importance, reason for implementing a PDM system, financial justification
of PDM, barriers to PDM implementation.
PRODUCT DESIGN:
Engineering design, organization and decomposition in product design, product design
process, methodical evolution in product design, concurrent engineering, design for 'X' and
design central development model. Strategies for recovery at end of life, recycling, human
factors in product design. Modeling and simulation in product design.
195
UNIT III
NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT:
Structuring new product development, building decision support system, Estimating market
opportunities for new product, new product financial control, implementing new product
development, market entry decision, launching and tracking new product
program, Concept of redesign of product.
UNIT IV
TECHNOLOGY FORECASTING:
Future mapping, invocating rates of technological change, methods of technology forecasting
such as relevance trees, morphological methods and mission flow diagram, combining
forecast of different technologies, uses in manufacture alternative.
UNIT V
PRODUCT CONCEPTION PROCESS:
Business processes, data-process relationship, from the idea to waste disposal Product
structures: Variant management, product configuration, material master data, product
description data, Data models, Life cycles of individual items, status of items.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Fabio Giudice, Guido La Rosa, Product Design for the environment-A life cycle
approach, Taylor and Francis 2006.
2. Robert J. Thomas, NPD: Managing and forecasting for strategic processes.
REFERENCES:
1. John Stark, Springer-Verlag, ”Product Lifecycle Management Paradigm for 21st
century Product Realization”, London, 3rd printing (2006). 441 pp., ISBN: 1-85233-
810-5.
2. Product Lifecycle Management, Michael Grieves, Tata McGraw Hill
3. Martins Joseph, Technological Forecasting for decision Making, 2nd edition, North
Holland.
196
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5ME62) CAD/CAM LABORATORY
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: CAD, CAM and SOM.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the ways in which 2D sketches and 3D models – solid and surface are
made using appropriate CAD packages.
• Know the procedure of building assembly drawings and obtain drafted views from it.
• Learn the part programming techniques in turning, milling and drilling operations.
• Understand the determination of stresses and strains in systems like trusses and
beams.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Summarize the skills learnt in sketching and modeling using CAD packages
• Design product assemblies and obtain drafted views from it.
• Produce components with different features using CNC machines and machining
centers.
• Analyze the stress and strain in various structures.
12 exercises from the following syllabus:
1. CAD:
i) 2D Drawing using Sketcher workbench – 1 exercise containing atleast
3 drawings
ii) 3D modeling using 3D features – 1 exercise containing atleast
3 models
i) Assembly and drafting – 1 exercise containing 1
assembly
iv) Surface Modeling – 1 exercise
v) Sheet Metal Working – 1 exercise
Softwares: AutoCAD, IronCAD, CATIA, CREO
197
2. CAM:
i) Part programming for Turning, Facing, Chamfering, Grooving, Step turning, Taper
turning operations.
ii) Part programming for Point to point motions, Linear motions, Circular interpolation,
Contour motion, Pocket milling - Circular, Rectangular and Mirror commands.
iii) Part Programming using Fixed or Canned Cycles for Drilling, Peck drilling, Boring,
Tapping, Turning, Facing, Taper turning, Thread cutting.
iv) Generation of tool path, NC part program and its simulation.
v) Machining of small components using CNC Lathe, CNC Mill and CNC Turning
center.
Softwares: CNC Offline Simulation, EdgeCAM
3. CAE:
i) Determination of deflection and stresses in 2D and 3D trusses and beams.
ii) Determination Principal/ Von-mises stresses and deflections, in plane stress/
plane strain/ axisymmetric models.
iii) Determination of stresses in 3D and shell structures.
Softwares: Ansys
198
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech. ME I Sem L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5ME63) PRODUCTION DRAWING PRACTICE LABORATORY
Course Prerequisites: Engineering drawing and Machine Drawing
Course Objectives:
• Understanding of conventional representations of various materials and machine
components.
• Understanding limits, fits and tolerances and their representation in drawings.
• Understand part drawings procedures using CAD software
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Represent various materials and machine components on part drawings
• Use limits fits and tolerances on drawings along with dimensions.
• Produce part and detailed drawings of various assemblies using cad.
• To represent Heat treatment and surface treatment symbols used on drawings.
UNIT I
Conventional representation of Materials – conventional representation of parts – screw
joints, welded joints, springs, gears, electrical, hydraulic and pneumatic circuits – methods of
indicating notes on drawings.
UNIT II
LIMITS AND FITS: Types of fits, exercises involving selection / interpretation of fits and
estimation of limits from tables.
UNIT III
FORM AND POSITIONAL TOLERANCES: Introduction and indication of the tolerances of
form and position on drawings, deformation of runout and total runout and their indication.
UNIT IV
SURFACE ROUGHNESS AND ITS INDICATION: Definitions – finishes obtainable from
various manufacturing processes, recommended surface roughness on mechanical
components.
UNIT V
Heat treatment and surface treatment symbols used on drawings.
199
UNIT VI
DETAILED AND PART DRAWINGS: Drawing of parts from assembly drawings with
indications of size, tolerances, Roughness, form and position errors etc.
UNIT VII
Part drawing using computer aided drafting by CAD software
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Production and Drawing – K.L. Narayana & P. Kannaiah/ New Age.
2. Machine Drawing with Auto CAD- Pohit and Ghosh, PE.
REFERENCE:
1. Geometric Dimensioning and Tolerancing- James D. Meadows/ B.S Publications.
2. Engineering Metrology, R.K. Jain, Khanna Publications.
200
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech I Semester L T/P/D C
0 3 2
(5ME64) AUTOMATION & ROBOTICS LABORATORY
Course Prerequisites: Manufacturing processes, fluid and electric controllers, robot
programming, mathematics, Kinematics of machinery.
Course Objectives:
• To analyze the experiments for understanding the working of hydraulic, pneumatic,
electric and electronic controls used in automation.
• To evaluate the concepts of PLC’s, microcontrollers in automation.
• To analyze the functioning of automated transfer devices by applying the sensors
concept.
• To create the robotics manipulator motions using the robotic programming and
languages.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Analyze the working of different controls used in automation.
• Create and analyze the hydraulic/pneumatic circuits.
• Analyzing the concepts of instrumentation to the automation processes.
• Creating a robot program.
Experiments to demonstrate:
1. Pneumatic, hydraulic, electrical systems in automation
2. Microprocessor applications in automated systems.
3. Robotics Systems and Programming
4. Automated transfer devices.
5. Training on Programmable Logic Controllers
201
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
3 0 3
(5ME18) INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING AND MANAGEMENT
Course Prerequisite: Knowledge of Manufacturing, General Management, Business
Economics, Mathematics & Statistics
Course Objectives:
• Perform as industry leaders in the global marketplace, capable of successfully
planning, controlling, and implementing large-scale projects.
• Flourish and work effectively in diverse, multicultural environments emphasizing the
application of teamwork and communication skills.
• Understand and apply the principles of Management, science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics involving industry-relevant problems.
• Maintain high standards of professional and ethical responsibility.
• Contribute to the profitable growth of industrial economic sectors by using IE
analytical tools, effective computational approaches, and systems thinking
methodologies.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply knowledge of Management, mathematics, science, and engineering.
• Design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic
constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and
safety, manufacturability and sustainability.
• Communicate effectively.
• Function on multidisciplinary teams.
• Acquire knowledge on contemporary & emerging issues important to professional
practice.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING AND MANAGEMENT:
Concept of Industrial Engineering (I.E),History and Development of I.E, Role of I.E,
Applications of I.E, Production Management vs I.E, Principles of Management, Functions of
Management, Taylor's Scientific Management, Maslow's Theory of Human Needs,
Leadership Styles, Principles of Organization, Types of Organization Structures their Merits
and Demerits, Entrepreneurship.
202
UNIT II
PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT:
Plant Location, Principles of Plant Layout, Different Types of Plant Layouts, different Types of
Production Systems, Travel Chart Technique, Simple Problems on Assembly Line Balancing.
Production Planning and Control: Production Cycle, Product Design and Development,
Production Planning and Control Techniques, Simple problems.
PLANT MAINTENANCE:
Objectives and Types, Equipment Selection, Maintenance Planning.
Materials Handling- Principles, Concept of Unit Load, Containerization, Selection of Material
Handling Equipment, Applications of Belt Conveyors, Cranes, Forklift Trucks in Industry.
UNIT III
WORK STUDY:
Concept of Productivity, Method Study - Basic steps in Method Study, Process Charts,
Diagrams, Models and Templates, Principles of Motion Economy, Micro Motion Study,
Therbligs, SIMO Chart, PMTS, MOST, Work Measurement - Stop Watch Procedure of Time
Study, Performance Rating, Allowances, Work Sampling, Simple Problems, Ergonomics.
MATERIALS MANAGEMENT:
Introduction, Purchasing, Objectives of Purchasing Department, Buying Techniques,
Purchase Procedure, Stores and Material Control, Inventory Control, EOQ Model(Simple
Problems), Supply Chain Management.
Quality Control - Statistical Quality Control, Control Charts for Variables and Attribute, Simple
Problems, Acceptance Sampling, Deming's Contribution to Quality. Total Quality
Management, Taguchi’s Quality Engineering, Value Analysis and Value Engineering
UNIT IV
MARKETING:
Functions of Marketing, Marketing Mix, Product Life Cycle. Channels of Distribution and
Sales Management.
Manufacturing planning: MRP, MRP-II, JIT, CIM.
UNIT V
HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT(HRM):
Concepts of HRM, Basic Functions of HR Manager: Manpower Planning, Recruitment,
Selection, Training and Development, Placement, Wage and Salary Administration,
Promotion, Transfer, Separation, Performance Appraisal.
203
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS:
Trade Unions, Industrial Disputes, Strikes, Lock-Out, Picketing, Gherao, Settlement of
Industrial Disputes, Collective Bargaining, Industrial Dispute Act 1947 and Factories Act
1948.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Aryasri: Management Science, TMH, New Delhi, 2009.
2. Industrial Engineering and Management, by Dr. O. P .Khanna.
REFERENCES:
1. Principles of Management by Koontz and ODonnel.
2. Production and Operations Management by Everette Adam and Ronald Ebert.
3. Operations Management by John McClain and Joseph Thames.
4. Industrial Engineering and Production Management by Tulsa, S. Chand and Co.
204
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 0 3
(5ME81) POWER PLANT ENGINEERING
Course Prerequisites: Thermal Engineering and Basic Electrical Engineering.
Course Objectives:
• Understanding the layout of the different types of Power plants.
• Understanding the concept of power from non-conventional source.
• Applying the Knowledge on various components in the power plants.
• Understanding the power plant economics and power distribution.
Course outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Analyzing the working principal of the power plant, scope for future expansion.
• Understanding the concept on various equipments used in the plant.
• Evaluating the power plant economics and environmental consideration.
• Applying the Knowledge to the power distribution and load factor importance.
UNIT I
Introduction to the Sources of Energy – Resources and Development of Power in India.
STEAM POWER PLANT:
Plant Layout, Working of different Circuits, Fuel and handling equipments, types of coals,
coal handling, choice of handling equipment, coal storage, ash handling systems.
COMBUSTION PROCESS:
Properties of coal – overfeed and underfeed fuel beds, traveling grate stokers, spreader
stokers, retort stokers, pulverized fuel burning system and its components, combustion needs
and draught system, cyclone furnace, design and construction, Dust collectors, cooling
towers and heat rejection..
UNIT II
INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE PLANT:
DIESEL POWER PLANT: Introduction – IC Engines, types, construction– Plant layout with
auxiliaries – fuel supply system, air starting equipment, lubrication and cooling system – Cost
of Diesel power Plant – Testing Diesel Power Plant Performance.
205
UNIT III
GAS TURBINE PLANT:
Introduction – classification - construction – Layout with auxiliaries – Principles of working of
closed and open cycle gas turbines. Combined Cycle Power Plants and comparison.
HYDRO ELECTRIC POWER PLANT:
Water power – Hydrological cycle / flow measurement – drainage area characteristics –
Hydrographs – storage and Pondage – classification of dams and spill ways.
HYDRO PROJECTS AND PLANT:
Classification – Typical layouts – plant auxiliaries – plant operation pumped storage plants.
UNIT IV
POWER FROM NON-CONVENTIONAL SOURCES:
Utilization of Solar energy - Collectors- Fuel CellsPrinciple of Working, Wind Energy – types –
HAWT, VAWT -Tidal Energy.
NUCLEAR POWER STATION:
Nuclear fuel – breeding and fertile materials – Nuclear reactor –reactor operation. Types of
Reactors: Pressurized water reactor, Boiling water reactor, sodium-graphite reactor, fast
Breeder Reactor, Homogeneous Reactor, Gas cooled Reactor, Radiation hazards and
shielding – radioactive waste disposal.
UNIT V
POWER PLANT ECONOMICS AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS:
Capital cost, investment of fixed charges, operating costs, general arrangement of power
distribution, Load curves, load duration.
curve. Definitions of connected load, Maximum demand, demand factor, average load, load
factor, diversity factor – related exercises. Effluents from power plants and Impact on
environment – pollutants and pollution standards – Methods of
Pollution control.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. A Text Book of Power Plant Engineering / Rajput / Laxmi Publications
2. Power Plant Engineering – G.R. Nagpal/ Khanna Publishers
REFERENCES:
1. Power Plant Engineering: P.K.Nag/ II Edition /TMH.
2. Power Plant Engineering/ Ramalingam/ Scietech Publishers
3. Power Plant Engineering – P.C.Sharma / S.K.Kataria Pub
4. A Course in Power Plant Engineering: / Arora and S. Domkundwar.
5. Power Station Engineering – ElWakil / McHill.
206
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 0 3
(5ME82) DESIGN FOR MANUFACTURING
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Production Technology, Metallurgy & Material Science, Design
Concepts, Automation, Machine Tools.
Course Objectives:
• To understand the methodology of AFMA, in terms of design process,
Material selection and its relationship with the Manufacturing Processes
• To understand the manufacturing processes like machining, casting, metal joining,
cold working operations like forging, extrusion of metals
• To understand various sheet metal operations and the design concepts behind
them.
• To understand various design processes to be used manual, automatic
assembly and material handling equipment.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Apply the rules and methods for the design of machine component and products.
• Apply appropriate methods for selecting the materials and the processes
involved in manufacture of various components and systems.
• Process metals by cold working, sheet metal and joining operations by applying
relevant rules.
• Design and develop manual and automatic assembly processes using various
tools
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION:
Design philosophy, Steps in design process, General design rules for manufacturability,
Basic principles of designing for economical production, Creativity in design - Design aspects
covering environmental concerns, power consumption, operational safety and fool proofi
MATERIALS:
Selection of materials for design, commonly used metal sections, Criteria for material
selection, Material selection interrelationship with process selection, Process Selection
charts.
207
UNIT II
MACHINING PROCESS:
Overview of various machining processes, General design rules for machining, Dimensional
tolerance and surface roughness, Design for machining ease, Redesigning of components for
machining ease with suitable examples, General design recommendations for machined
parts.
METAL CASTING:
Appraisal of various casting processes, Selection of casting process, General design
considerations for casting, Casting tolerances, Use of solidification simulation in casting
design, Product design rules for sand casting.
UNIT III
METAL JOINING:
Appraisal of various welding processes, Factors in design of weldments, General design
guidelines - Pre and post treatment of welds, Effects of thermal stresses in weld joints,
Design of brazed joints.
FORGING:
Design factors for Forging, Closed die forging design, Parting lines of die drop forging die
design, General design recommendations.
EXTRUSION AND SHEET METAL WORK:
Design guidelines for extruded sections, Design principles for Punching, Blanking, Bending,
Deep Drawing, Keeler Goodman Forming Line Diagram, Component design for Blanking.
UNIT IV
ASSEMBLY ADVANTAGES:
Development of the assembly process, Choice of assembly method, Assembly advantages,
Social effects of automation.
AUTOMATIC ASSEMBLY TRANSFER SYSTEMS:
Continuous transfer, Intermittent transfer, Indexing mechanisms and operator - paced free
transfer machine.
UNIT V
DESIGN OF MANUAL ASSEMBLY:
General design guidelines for manual assembly, Development of the systematic DFA
methodology, Assembly efficiency, Classification system for manual handling, Classification
system for manual insertion and fastening, Effect of part symmetry on handling time, Effect
of part thickness and size on handling time, Effect of weight on handling time.
208
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Assembly Automation and Product Design by Geoffrey Boothroyd, Publisher:
Marcel Dekker Inc.,
2. Engineering Design – Material and Processing Approach by George E. Dieter,
Publisher: McGraw Hill Intl.
REFERENCES:
1. Hand Book of Product Design by Geoffrey Boothroyd, Publisher: Marcel and
Dekker
2. Computer Aided Assembly Planning by A. Delchambre, Publisher: Springer
209
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 0 3
(5ME83) UNCONVENTIONAL MACHINING PROCESSES
Course Prerequisites: Manufacturing Technology & Engineering materials
Course Objectives:
• Know the importance of classification of various Non-Traditional machining
processes and their applicability to various metals, non - metals & alloys
• Understand the working principles of mechanical energy based and spark energy
based material removal processes
• Remember the working principles of chemical and electro-chemical based material
removal processes
• Remember the Working principles of thermal energy based material removal
processes
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Summarize various Non-Traditional machining methods which are applicable for
difficult-to-cut materials, defense and aerospace sectors
• Analyze and decide the process parameters to be adopted and applicability of
various materials that are suitable for mechanical energy and spark energy based
machining processes
• Analyze and decide the process parameters to be adopted and applicability of
various materials that are suitable for chemical and electro-chemical energy based
machining processes
• Analyze and decide the process parameters to be adopted and applicability of
various materials that are suitable for thermal based machining processes
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION:
Unconventional Machining Process, Need, Classification, Brief overview of all techniques,
Study of material removal phenomena.
210
UNIT II
MECHANICAL ENERGY BASED PROCESSES:
Abrasive Jet Machining – Water Jet Machining – Abrasive Water Jet Machining- Ultrasonic
Machining (AJM, WJM, AWJM, USM). Working Principles – equipment used – Process
parameters – MRR – Applications.
UNIT III
ELECTRICAL ENERGY BASED PROCESSES:
Electric Discharge Machining (EDM) - working Principles-equipments-Process Parameters-
MRR- electrodes Used – Power Circuits – Dielectric – Flushing – Applications, Wire Cut
EDM- Applications
UNIT IV
CHEMICAL AND ELECTRO-CHEMICAL ENERGY BASED PROCESSES:
Chemical Machining and Electro-Chemical machining (CHM and ECM)-Etchants-maskants -
techniques of applying maskants-Process Parameters – MRR-Applications-Principles of
ECM-equipments-MRR-Processes Parameters.
UNIT V
THERMAL ENERGY BASED PROCESSES:
Laser Beam Machining (LBM), Plasma Arc Machining (PAM) and Electron Beam Machining
(EBM), Principles-Equipment-Process Parameters - Applications.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Advanced Machining Processes by Vijay K. Jain; Publisher: Allied Publishers
2. Modern Machining Processes by P. C. Pandey, H. S. Shan, Publisher: Tata
McGraw-Hill Education
REFERENCES:
1. Nontraditional Manufacturing Processes by Benedict. G. F; Publisher: Marcel
Dekker
2. Advanced Methods of Machining by McGeough; Publisher: Chapman and Hall,
London
3. Unconventional Machining Processes by P. K. Mishra; Publisher: Narosa
211
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Elective III 3 0 3
(5ME84) PRINCIPLES OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: General Management & Financial Accounting concepts,
Enthusiasm towards Entrepreneurship
Course Objectives:
• To analyze the entrepreneurial process involved in creating, managing a new
enterprise.
• To analyze the background and apply tools necessary to participate in
the entrepreneurial process
• To evaluate the fundamental business framework.
• To enables students to master the need to effectively apply the theories and various
approaches of entrepreneurship to create wealth.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Identify the key steps required for exploiting an innovative idea or opportunity to
develop an existing business, launch a new venture, or initiate a social enterprise.
• Recognize and evaluate business opportunities under dynamic economic settings.
• Identify and create opportunities to solve entrepreneurial issues while starting
an enterprise.
• Master the relevance of Entrepreneurship and Entrepreneurs to the economic
development of the nation especially regarding job creation and poverty alleviation
in general.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO ENTREPRENEURSHIP:
Definition of Entrepreneur, Entrepreneurial Traits, Entrepreneur vs. Manager, Entrepreneur
vs intrepreneur, The Entrepreneurial decision process, Role of Entrepreneurship in Economic
Development, Ethics and Social responsibility of Entrepreneurs, Opportunities for
Entrepreneurs in India and abroad, Woman as Entrepreneur.
UNIT II
CREATING AND STARTING THE VENTURE:
Sources of new Ideas, Methods of generating ideas, creating ideas and problem solving,
product planning and development process.
212
UNIT III
THE BUSINESS PLAN, NEW VENTURE EXPANSION STRATEGIES AND ISSUES:
Nature and scope of Business plan, Writing Business Plan, Evaluating Business plans, Using
and implementing business plans. Marketing plan, financial plan and the organizational plan,
Launching formalities. Features and evaluation of joint ventures, mergers, acquisitions,
franchising. Public issues, rights issues, bonus issues and stock splits.
UNIT IV
FINANCING AND MANAGING THE NEW VENTURE:
Sources of capital, Record keeping, Recruitment, Motivating and leading teams, Financial
controls, Marketing and sales controls, E-commerce and Entrepreneurship, Internet
advertising.
UNIT V
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT TO ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND LABOUR LEGISLATION:
Role of Directorate of Industries, District Industries Centers (DICs), Industrial Development
Corporation (IDC), State Financial Corporation (SFCs), Small Scale Industries Development
Corporations (SSIDCs), Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC), Technical
Consultancy Organization (TCO), Small Industries Service Institute (SISI), National Small
Industries Corporation (NSIC), Small Industries Development Bank of India(SIDBI). Salient
Provision under Indian Factories Act, Industrial Disputes Act, Employees State Insurance
Act, Workmen's Compensation Act and payment of Bonus Act.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Robert Hirsch and Michael Peters: Entrepreneurship, TMH, 5th Edition.
2. Dillinger: Entrepreneurship, 4/e, Pearson, 2004.
REFERENCES:
1. Vasant Desai: Dynamics of Entrepreneurial Development and management,
Himalaya Publishing House, 2004.
2. Harvard Business Review on Entrepreneurship, HBR Paper Back, 1999.
3. Robert J.Calvin: Entrepreneurial Management, TMH, 2004.
4. Gurmeet Naroola: The Entrepreneurial Connection, TMH, 2001.
5. Bolton and Thompson: Entrepeneurs- Talent, Temperament, Technique,
Butterworth Heinemann, 2001.
213
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(5ME85) AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
Course Prerequisites: Thermodynamics, Basic Electrical Engineering.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the basic concepts and working of automotive systems and
subsystems
• Present constructional features and working of automotive cooling, lubrication and
fuel systems
• Discuss constructional features and working of automotive electrical, driveline and
transmission systems
• Provide an overview on latest IC engine technologies, alternative fuels and
alternative electric powertrain systems
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Learn the concepts, functions and working of automotive systems and subsystems
• Gain knowledge on constructional details and functionality of automotive cooling,
lubrication and fuel systems
• Able to explain the constructional details and functionality of automotive electrical,
driveline and transmission systems
• Aware of latest IC engine technologies, alternative fuels and alternative electric
powertrain systems
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION:
Components of four wheeler automobile – chassis and body – power unit – power
transmission – rear wheel drive, front wheel drive, 4 wheel drive – types of automobile
engines, engine construction, turbo charging and super charging –
ENGINE LUBRICATION:
Splash and pressure lubrication systems, oil filters, oil pumps – crank case ventilation –
engine service, reboring, decarbonisation, Nitriding of crank shaft.
214
COOLING SYSTEM:
Cooling Requirements, Air Cooling, water Cooling, Thermo syphon and Forced Circulation
System – Radiators – Types – Cooling Fan - water pump, thermostat, pressure sealed
cooling – antifreeze solutions.
UNIT II
FUEL SYSTEM:
S. I. Engine: Fuel supply systems, Mechanical and electrical fuel pump – filters – carburettor
– types – air filters – petrol injection.
C. I. ENGINES:
Requirements of diesel injection systems, types of injection systems, fuel pump, nozzle,
spray formation, injection timing, testing of fuel pumps.
EMISSION FROM AUTOMOBILES AND ALTERNATE FUELS:
Pollution standards, National and international, Pollution Controll, Techniques, Multipoint fuel
injection for SI Engines, Common rail diesel injection Energy alternatives, Photo-voltaic,
hydrogen, LPG, CNG, hybrid and electrical vehicles their merits and demerits.
UNIT III
ELECTRICAL SYSTEM:
Lead acid battery, generator, current – voltage regulator, starting system, Bendix drive
mechanism, solenoid switch, lighting systems, Horn, wiper, fuel gauge, oil pressure gauge,
engine temperature indicator etc.
IGNITION SYSTEM:
Function of an ignition system, battery ignition system, contact breaker points, condenser and
spark plug – Magneto coil ignition system, electronic ignition system using contact breaker,
electronic ignition using contact triggers – spark advance and retard mechanism.
UNIT IV
TRANSMISSION SYSTEM:
Clutches, principle, types, single plate clutch, multi plate clutch, centrifugal clutches, fluid fly
wheel – gear boxes, types, sliding mesh, constant mesh, synchro mesh gear boxes, epicyclic
gear box , over drive, torque converter, Propeller shaft, Hotch – Kiss drive, Torque tube drive,
universal joint, differential rear axles – types, wheels and tyres.
SUSPENSION SYSTEM:
Objects of suspension systems – rigid axle suspension system, torsion bar, shock absorber,
Independent suspension system, air suspension system, MacPherson Strut suspension
system.
215
UNIT V
STEERING SYSTEM:
Steering geometry – camber, castor, king pin inclination, combined angle, toe-in, toe-out,
center point steering. Types of steering mechanism – Ackerman steering mechanism, Davis
steering mechanism, steering gears – types, steering linkages under steering and over
steering, Power steering.
BRAKING SYSTEM:
Mechanical brake system, Hydraulic brake system, Master cylinder, wheel cylinder, tandem
master cylinder, Requirement of brake fluid, Pneumatic and Vacuum brakes, ABS (Anti Lock
Breaking System).
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Automotive Mechanics by Heitner.
2. Automotive Mechanics by William Crouse.
REFERENCES:
1. A Text Book of Automobile Engineering by Manzoor, Nawazish Mehdi & Yosuf Ali;
Publisher: Frontline Publications.
2. Automotive Engineering by Newton; Publisher: Steeds & Garrett.
3. Automotive Mechanics by G. B. S. Narang.
4. Automotive Engines by Srinivasan.
5. Automobile Engineering by K. K. Ramalingam; Publisher: Scitech.
216
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(5ME86) TOOL DESIGN
Course Prerequisites: Design principles, machine tools, process engineering.
Course Objectives:
• Analyze the properties of tool materials such as ferrous, non ferrous, non metallic
materials and their heat treatment .
• Create single and multi point cutting tools for various applications.
• Create Jigs and Fixtures design.
• Analyze design of sheet metal tools for blanking, piercing, bending, forming and
drawing etc.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Evaluate single and multi point cutting tools for various methods.
• Analyze design for jigs and fixtures for several components depending on quantity
requirement.
• Analyze the sheet metal tools for blanking, piercing, bending, forming and drawing.
• Apply an appropriate heat treatment for the tools.
UNIT I
TOOL MATERIALS AND HEAT TREATMENT:
Introduction, Properties of Materials, Ferrous Tooling Materials: Tool Steels, Cast Iron and Mild or Low
Carbon Steels; Non Metallic Tooling Materials, Non ferrous Tooling Materials, Heat Treating, Appearance of
Carbon in Steel, Factor Affecting Heat Treating, Heat Treatment and Tool Design.
UNIT II
DESIGN OF CUTTING TOOLS:
Introduction, A Brief History of Metal Cutting, The Metal Cutting Process: The Basic
Requirements of a Cutting Tool, Mechanism and Geometry of Chip Formation, General
Consideration for Metal Cutting, Metal Cutting Tools: Single Point Cutting Tools, Milling Cutters,
Drills and Drilling, Types of Drills, Reamers, Reamer Classification, Taps, Taps Classification; The
Selection Of Carbide Cutting Tools: Carbide Tools Determination of Shank Size for Single Point Carbide
Tools, determining the Insert thickness for Carbide Tools
217
UNIT III
DESIGN OF DRILL JIGS AND FIXTURES:
Introduction, Definition of a Drill Jig, Types of Drill Jigs, Chip Formation in Drilling, General
Considerations in the Design of Drill Jigs, Drill Bushing, Methods of Construction, Drill Jigs and Modern
Manufacturing,. Fixtures and Economics, Types of Fixtures: Vice Fixtures, Milling Fixtures, Boring Fixtures,
Broaching Fixtures, Lathe Fixtures, Grinding Fixtures;
UNIT IV
DESIGN OF SHEET METAL BLANKING AND PIERCING DIES:
Introduction, Introduction to Die Cutting Operations: The Fundamentals of Die Cutting Operations,
Power Press Types, General Press Information, Materials Handling Equipment. Cutting action in
Punch and Die Operations. Die Clearance, Types of Die Construction; Die Design Fundamentals:
Blanking and Piercing Die Construction, Pilots, Stripper and Pressure Pads, Presswork Material, Strip
Layout, Short-Run Tooling for Piercing.
UNIT V
DESIGN OF SHEET METAL BENDING, FORMING AND DRAWING DIES:
Introduction, Bending Dies, Drawing Dies, Forming Dies, Drawing Operations, Variables that affect metal
flow during Drawing. Determining Blank Size, Drawing Force, Single and Double - action draw dies.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Tool Design by Cyril Donaldson, George H LeCain & V C Goold; Publisher: Tata
McGraw Hill.
2. Fundamentals of Tool Design by Jeff Lantrip, John G. Nee, David Alkire Smith,
Society of Manufacturing Engineers.
REFERENCES:
1. Fundamentals of Tool Design by David Splitler, Jelf Lantrip & D. A. Smith;
Publisher: Society of Manufacturing Engineers.
2. Production Engineering by P.C. Sharma; Publisher: Sultan Chand.
218
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(5ME87) METAL CASTING TECHNOLOGY
Course Prerequisite: Production Technology
Course Objectives:
• Comprehend the various casting processes, their applications and understand the
use of patterns and their design.
• Know the design of runner, riser and gating systems and allowances to be
provided.
• Understand the construction and working of various melting furnaces.
• Understand the process of removing castings, inspection methods for defects
present and their remedies.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Select appropriate casting process for a component meeting design specifications
and identify the correct type of pattern.
• Design a casting - gating and risering system for a specific part.
• Distinguish the various type of melting furnaces for different materials.
• Assess the castings for defects and apply remedies to the defects found through
inspection.
UNIT I
PATTERN AND FOUNDRY SAND:
Foundry as manufacturing process- Types of patterns- Pattern Materials- Pattern
Allowances- Pattern Layout, Pattern making- Various sands- Testing of foundry sand:
Strength Permeability, Moisture Content.
UNIT II
MOULDING METHODS:
Moulding methods: Green sand moulding- dry sand moulding- no bake moulding- shell
moulding- Investment casting- Permanent moulding- die casting and Centrifugal casting.
Modern moulding methods: Rheocasting- Thixocasting and Squeeze casting.
UNIT III
GATING AND RISERING:
Solidification- Gates- their functions, design of gating system- Risers- their functions- design
219
UNIT IV
MELTING FURNACES:
Constructional details - Operation of crucible furnaces, Reverberatory furnaces- Cupola,
Rotary furnace – Core type and Coreless type Induction furnaces - Arc furnace (direct and
indirect arc furnaces).
UNIT V
FETTLING AND INSPECTION:
Removal of gates and risers, Grinding, Shot blasting and finishing, Inspection, Casting
defects, Remedies.
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Principles of Metal Casting by Heine R. W, Loper C.R & Rosenthal P.C; Publisher:
Tata McGraw Hill.
2. Principles of Foundry Technology by Jain P. L; Publisher: Tata McGraw Hill.
REFERENCES:
1. Metal Casting Principles and Practice by Ramana Rao T.V; Publisher: New Age.
2. Foundry Technology by Beeley P. R; Publisher: Butterworth.
3. Foundry Engineering by Srinivasan N. K., Publisher: Khanna.
4. Casting Vol. 15 by ASM Metals Hand Book; Publisher: ASM International.
220
VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology
IV Year B.Tech II Semester L T/P/D C
Elective IV 3 0 3
(5ME88) NANO SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
(Common to ME & AE)
Course Prerequisites: Maths, Physics and chemistry.
Course Objectives:
• Understand the Nanomaterials and their properties.
• Gain knowledge of different nanostructures of carbon and their properties
• Know applications of carbon nanotubes.
• Build technologies to design, realize and analyze micro and nano-scale
electronic devices, materials and systems, coupled with general and technology
management.
Course Outcomes:
After completion of the course the student is able to:
• Create solutions in engineering, biotechnology and manufacturing by identifying
current nanotechnology.
• Apply the fundamental knowledge of science to characterize the Nano
Materials.
• Synthesize carbon Nano tubes and nano materials.
• Evaluate tools in nanoscience for applications in various sectors.
UNIT I
INTRODUCTION TO NANO:
Importance, Definition and scope, Nano size, challenges, applications. Electrons, Atoms and
Ions, Molecules, Metals, Other Materials.
HISTORY OF NANO-SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY:
Nano magnetism as a case study; Fundamental terms (Physics & Chemistry) in nano-science
and technology; Feynman’s perspective; Scaling laws pertaining to mechanics, optics,
electromagnetism; Importance of Quantum mechanics, statistical mechanics and chemical
kinetics in nano-science and technology;
UNIT II
CLASSIFICATION OF NANO MATERIALS:
Scientific basis for top-down and bottom-up approaches to synthesize Nanomaterials; How to
characterize Nanomaterials? Electrons in Nanomaterials.
221
TOOLS OF THE NANOSCIENCE:
Tools for Measuring Nanostructures, Tools to Make Nanostructures. Nano scale
Biostructures, Energy Capture, Transformation, and Storage Optics, Magnets, Fabrication,
Electronics, Electronics Again Modelling.
UNIT III
NANO-BIOTECHNOLOGY:
Bio-molecules; Biosensors; Nanomaterials in drug delivery; Working in clean room
environments; Safety and related aspects of Nanomaterials.
UNIT IV
CARBON NANOTUBES & STRUCTURES :
Carbon Nano structures and types of Carbon Nano tubes, growth mechanisms of carbon
nanotubes. Carbon clusters and Fullerenes, Synthesis of CNTs by Flame, CVD, Laser & Arc-
discharge process.
UNIT V
Lithium & Hydrogen adsorption & storages, Fuel cell applications and energy storage,
Chemical Sensors applications of CNTs
TEXT BOOKS:
1. Nanotechnology Fundamentals and Applications- by Manasi Karkare I.K
International.
2. Nanoscience and Nanotechnology in engineering – by Vijay K Varadan A
Sivathanupillai Word scientific.
REFERENCES:
1. Nanotechnology applications to telecommunications and networking By Daniel
Minoli, Wiley Interscience.
2. Nanotechnology Principles and Applications by Sulabha Kulkarni.
222
