SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/mechdept/faculty/Satya-Prasad-Paruchuru.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

Profile
Name : Satya Prasad Paruchuru,
MS in ME, Ph.D., Fast Track (2003) and BOYSCST Fellow of DST-GoI
Designation : Professor; Alumnus of JNTU, AY 1988-1992
Department: Mechanical Engineering, VNRVJIET, Hyderabad-500090
Email ID : psprasad@vnrvjiet.in
Total Experience (in years) Teaching Research Others (if any, specify):
31+ 31+ 31+ 5 (Industry)
Objective: To remain in the academic fields of Technology and Engineering, with focus on
the institutional and professional interests, in alignment with the institutional Vision, Mission,
Quality Policy, and Goals, in order to continue to produce the professionals of quality that is
justifiable with the enrolled programme of study, for the wellbeing of the profession
Summary:
Work Experience that projects the versatility of investment and reachability, as appropriate to
the specific academic position : Responsibilities and post-qualification (i.e., subsequent to
the attainment of the qualifications, namely, B.Tech. at JNTU College of Engineering, and
simultaneously Advanced Diploma in Systems Management at the National Institute of
Information Technology – Regional Center and NCC training) experience at MNCs and
nationally, commensurately professionally, and internationally reputed organizations over the
past few decades, in order to meet the purpose of engineering education (details at point 7) ;
design of the enrolled-aware curriculum for UG to enable the enrolled/ taught, achieve
trustworthiness, as relevant to the programme of study ; the curriculum improvements from
2011 resulted as a means to handle unawareness, alleviate fears, and tackle with courage ;
first to implement instructing ‘engineering drawing and graphics courses, and the relevant
courses’ of the institution using CAD, continuously from 2011 in the undivided state, in spite
of severe conservatory pressures due to the non-existence of the consistent practice in the
nation ; organized preparatory course on CAD for the faculty members who taught
engineering graphics, engineering drawing, machine drawing, production drawing, etc., by the
manual drafting methods ; Sufficient time lapsed to perceive the unsuitable apprehension?
Purpose of implementation: (1) Basic career essential and pre-requisite for
understanding CAD software as appropriate to the core engineering specializations of UG
and (2) Spending time with CAD software in the first year imbibes the practice of various
software concepts that are relevant to the other engineering specializations of UG ; later, it
became the continuous practice at the participating institutions of the nation ; within the
tenure of much less than an year (details at the point 2.2) ; Relevant example? Subsequent
progress - UG programmes? Result: Upgraded the quality of the UG programmes of
study and the ethically teaching faculty research by providing feasible and respectful
access to the world class learning resources - R11, R12, and R13 ; An ample opportunity?
Worthiness of the Specific Academic Experience - Subsequent to the completion of Master’s
qualification, work experience at UTHSCSA, MNC experience mentioned in the previous
point, and academic experience : openly competed for Fast Track (2003) and BOYSCAST
1
(2005) research fellowships of DST, GoI : applicants are the scientists of national research
organizations including all the DRDO and National Laboratories as well as the faculty
members from the Indian institutions as well as the institutions of national importance
including IITs/ IISc., in the areas of science, technology, engineering, mathematics, and
medicine (further details, up to the present day, at 5.7, 5.8, 5.9, and 5.10) and continued in
spite of the bitter professional and personal constraints, for the past two decades. Every
precaution has been taken as the faculty member and the investigator to abide by the
guidelines of the authorities eg. (1) Exclusive contribution to the enrolled UG, (2) awareness
of time, efforts, and expense involved in producing a commensurately technical result in spite
of the prevailed awareness, and (3) protection of the institutional resources ; Relevant
example to perceive the unethical efforts, when the schedule, non-allocation, allocated
activities like the commensurate inputs, and indicatively ascribed activities like – the Quality,
Quantity, and Communication of teaching - short term courses - participating project
dissemination - sponsored research projects of post-graduate level, post-doctoral level, and the
senior post-doctoral level, etc., explained either ‘the lack of effort to know the time-extent
involved in a professionally genuine activity’ or the unawareness ; anybody affords the
blame-alternative? Right to protect the interests of the institutional co-authors!
Result: Improved the quality of the programmes of study and the ethically teaching faculty
research
In spite of the systemic barriers : Presently the employment institution offers no Ph.D.
programme/ degree ; however, the institution facilitates the guidance of GoI nominated
candidates, time to time, with a provision to register (enroll) at JNTU-H, as such a provision
does not exist at the institution ; efforts to produce the consistent academic development for
UG - for the noble cause of attaining exclusivity for UG programmes - amidst of the
professional constraints, explain? Result: A publication at the most reputed journal of ASTM
+ 11 unique journal publications, only with the UG/ Graduate students and/or the guide – man
years of work including UG, PG, doctoral, post-doctoral, senior post-doctoral, professorial,
and senior professorial contribution at the varied education systems? Explains?
Education that reflects the expense of life : Earned UG qualification, after attaining an
EAMCET rank of 417, through a regular 4 year programme at the University (main campus)
College of Engineering , JNTU (now JNTU-H) during AY 1988-1992 ; simultaneously earned
comprehensive and dual qualifications from NIIT-Regional Centre (RC) for the undivided
state, and undergone NCC training, during the mentioned time ; such a programme acted as
one of the means to gain the necessary comprehension, knowledge, skills, and capabilities to
impart training ; the programme demonstrated the need for competency and consistency in
education and the subsequent employment, provided the essence to interpret qualification as a
means to further the ambition and not as granted, inferred to provide the supervision in order
to further the goals and inculcate trustworthiness, emphasized the contribution of such an
academic programme to overcome the apprehensions and face the actuality, and sufficiently
hinted to continue the consistent and able work ; Result: Admission at an international
university
2
Contemporary PostGraduate education ; achievement of the cognizant-atmosphere and
objectives, to balance and benefit the life of the enrolled UG in the chosen way ; guidance for
the projects of high impact and comprehension ; Result: Publications in ASTM
Exclusive career education imparted up to date (as applicable to the education and experience)
: Initiation of the practice of organizing the full time short term courses/ faculty development
programmes of a minimum of 40 hours each, that does not seek any kind of financial support
from the funding agencies or the employer, in UGC/MHRD/AICTE approved colleges - when
there existed no mandatory curricular requirement for the students at the employment
institution ; Fifteen short term courses of 24-96 hour duration (details at point 4), those
conformed to the aforesaid norm, eleven other technical programmes (details at point 3.2),
and several other professional programmes as the coordinator and instructor ; effective
utilization in implementing the significant curricular-improvements ; details at point 2.2, 3.2,
and 4.0 ; Leveraged and updated the activity to the next level by emphasizing the purpose,
from 2010? insecure feeling? Relevant example that suggests – on continuing the needful?
Result: Improved the quality of the programmes of study and the ethically teaching faculty
research - within the short administrative tenure? ; An ample opportunity to identify the
benefit of pioneering efforts?
Feasibility studies and further developments - educational programs, sectorial revival, etc. ;
Learning resources - comprehensive, confident, and effective education with sufficiency ;
Development and implementation of a concept, ‘bridge course’ as a means to significantly
improve the ‘learning methodologies’ ; Curricular improvements with significant progress - to
benefit the enrolled UG/ surroundings ; Result: Transformation into Policy, R11, R12, R13
… R22 and ethically teaching faculty research
Initiation of the practice of summer project training (as applicable to the education and
experience) in the undivided state, for the undergraduates for a minimum of 30 full time
working days ; continuation of the same by extending to the department level for the existing
industry oriented mini-project as the Head of ME/ AME from 12.2010 to 08.2011 ; witnessed
an unimaginable reaction in 2011 while being involved in the various prevailing initiatives as
the Head of the Department and Chairman-Board of Studies-Mechanical Engineering
Department (ME) and Automobile Engineering (AME) Department, e.g. (1) R11 for the first
autonomous batch, (2) finishing school, (3) preparedness for R11, (4) Research oriented short
term courses to prepare for R11, (5) direct course development and instruction through the
faculty preparatory programme to introduce CAD to teach ‘engineering drawing and graphics
courses, and the relevant courses’ effective from 2011 to those faculty members who taught
the relevant courses without CAD, (6) preparation and submission of an application for
National Board of Accreditation (NBA) recognition, (7) preparing for the recognition of the
department as academic excellence, (8) submitting several external funding applications,
including a fetched sponsored research project, with state of the art equipment and a grant for
the up gradation of laboratory with the proposed equipment development plan, etc. and (9)
withstanding the ‘unethical and behavioral advances’ ; Relevant example to understand the
3
need to conform with the essentials in tricky situations? Result: the initiative catalyzed the
‘enrolled-training’ and the completion of Ph.D. of the ethically teaching faculty members
Preparation - R11: Demonstration and practice sessions on breathing and relaxation exercises,
and subsequent discussions on the technical topics that are part of the curricular courses,
immediately prior to the sessions ; help to interpret the ‘nationally, commensurately
professionally, and internationally’ good textbooks and to remind through effective methods
about the need to purchase the textbook of every course, well before the commencement of
the respective semester as well as the retention of the same practice ; academic help to those
who travel long distances : allocation of office hours, prior to the commencement of sessions
; training with effective diet practices to facilitate the ‘advanced learning’ and healthy life ; on
playing a crucial role to enable and support an ethical, stable, healthy, and happy society ;
Suitable example to identify that the personnel are within the administrative control, and
continue with the essentials? Result: Relevant academic projects that brought the national
reputation and ethically teaching faculty research ; R11, R12, R13, …R22
Time effective academic service up to date : details at points 5.7 and 5.8 ; Initiation of the
state of the art research facilities with access to the world class learning resources to further
the multifaceted education and ethics, for over two decades. Post Graduate level, Post-
Doctoral level, and Senior Post Doctoral Level Sponsored Research Revenue: Started with a
sponsored research project as the Principal Investigator which fetched 2.5% of the annual
revenue of the institution, at a self-financed affiliated college. Details at 5.9 and 5.10.
Learning methods in accordance with the ‘chosen field and interest’ - to ensure the integrity ;
Ethical practices and thinking to ensure a stable economy ; Development of courses/
laboratory resources to alleviate the learning difficulties ; Sufficient time lapsed to understand
the losses, while being entrusted with the concerned responsibility ; Result: R11, R12, R13
… R22, unique publications, and ethically teaching faculty research
Development and implementation of all time and high quality syllabus and curriculum of the
nation for the undergraduate mechanical and automobile engineering programmes of 2011-
2015 as HoD, ME and AME during 12.2010 to 08.2011 and Chairman of the department
board of studies during 01.04.2011 to 31.05.2012 ; proved at the right time and have been
proving the essence as an academician in technology and engineering, amidst of adversities ;
continuation of the quality, quantity, and communication ; extension to various other
programmes (point 2.2) ; initiation of the intention? (reaction for continuing the technical
activities inculcated from early 1990s - the organizational structure which intended to ensure
the progress, was inadvertently overridden?) Relevant example to understand the
compatibility, repercussions, and the subsequent enrollment – any effort or intervention to
ensure exclusivity for the UG programmes? Result: Tribute for the gracious award of
autonomy to the institution, in 05.2012 (effective from AY 2011-2012), for the starting
initiative of UG R11, ME/ AME and the ethically teaching faculty research
Demonstration of the importance of improving the absorption of certain basics/ prerequisites
of the chosen field that fosters the continuous learning ; Insistence on continuing to achieve
4
excellence and exclusivity in skills and capabilities, apart from the depth of knowledge to
ensure the effectiveness ; Result: Saved effort and time ; ensured contentment
Socrates: Superior Minds discuss ideas ; Average Minds discuss events ; Weak Minds
discuss names
Inference: An idea may be explained by means of an event ; mention of an example (case
study/ enterprise/ entity? Need for cautiousness about the possible wrong interpretation of an
example) might provide the further understanding of the corresponding event/ idea ; every
mind plays appropriate roles including the mentioned, while addressing the distributed
requirements of the audience ; clarity on the purpose ; role of the presenter might vary from
that of the enrolled ; every individual might have a distinct objective ; perceivable
comprehensiveness may be essential to develop in to an all-round personality that supposedly
preserves the immortal values of ancient culture and tradition ; most of the ancient
philosophers/ scientists suffered due to lack of food and ensured accessibility of the
sustainable resources, for the globe ; precaution is necessary to improve the skills and
capabilities and also preserve the confidence of the broad set of audience? to make use of the
institutional mechanisms to grasp the professional essence?
Interpretation: Being a technical (mechanical) professional with a hefty regular salary and
[
incompatible UG qualification legitimate? moral? learning from 1991-1994 intended to
serve the specific purpose of education that was contrary to the administrative role? Sure
about the stance? regulatory guidelines? Justification for the administrative position in the
department that offers predominantly 4 year programmes? The movements to submit the
department data of the applications of the institution for accreditation, NAAC, etc., excluding
the exclusive, essential, and relevant details by abstaining – to the extent that it is severely
harming the strength of the department with the stance that nothing happens to me? Eg.
Without giving the information on how exclusively the department was able to retain the
contributors to academics and ASTM/ASME journal publications, published while serving the
institution for prolonged time, how can the regulatory authority reasonably evaluate the
application? How such information will influence the evaluation process? examples? If the
application reflects the institutional facts, will there be any scope for surprise. Perceive the
well-known examples? The reason for telling the factual statements is provided at the end of
the parenthesis. Even after availing unlimited opportunity, expending 90+% of the recent
tenure, from 08.2021, and not cognizing? After observing continuously from 2009, requesting
the institution to include the communication, in the personal file, from 2022, did not help to
understand the situation? – other than continuing the methods to provoke the naïve faculty
members – If there is a dispute among two people, the situation is troublesome because, each
person is like an eye to the institution - Therefore the institution only indicates to overcome
the inter-personnel glitches – However, if a person gained the skill to misinterpret in an
undue manner, what role can the institution play? If the other person is abnormally tolerating
such behaviour, and striving to perform in spite of the hurdles posed, what role can the
institution play? What other option is available to prevent the repetition of the notorious and
influential misleads? – after attaining the confirmation about the role up to 2015 and after
5
2015 – even after (1) experiencing unimaginable repercussions, and still being modest in the
best interests of the profession, (2) tolerating with the humanitarian stance of not obstructing
the tenure of a faculty member or administrative faculty member, (3) overcoming the
repercussions by the abnormal adjustments made, over an abnormal amount of time, in spite
of the bitterness, (4) witnessing the misuse of the designation/ influence, department/
institution resources, infrastructure, etc., for influencing the people who do not have an
opportunity to understand the facts, e.g. association/s and following silence due to the
abnormal tolerable limits from 2009? (5) understanding the advances to hurt the interests of
the co-authors, considering that the co-authors up to 2016 are in another continent, and trying
to use the situation to get the undue clues on their future work to favour someone, (7) after
witnessing to harm the technical and financial position by causing the delay, (8) misguiding
the department, by creating the false image of the professional activities, and (9) also
understanding the limitation of the supervisory personnel on the mentioned matters – I am left
with the only option to give awareness on the matters that are responsible for the situation,
thereby functioning to improve the situation within the reasonable influence, with the
preparedness to competently face the abnormal situations being caused, against the
]
conscience of the institution– Also, pages 7 and 17 , is nothing but mocking and ridiculing
the efforts of professional orientation, undergone (at least from 2015)? responsibility?
influence? who gets benefitted? intention is clear? Any proactive measures, in spite of the
dissatisfaction over the source that substantially served the purpose and cannot give anymore,
due to the contribution? result? remuneration/ tendency – one of the reasons for the abnormal
bias/ behaviour? repercussions? Any understanding of the consequences of not intimating
the needful? – Undue encroachment being one of the reasons? Floating the same format to
the academic assistants and professors, being one of the reasons? encouraging plagiarism?
encouraging illegitimate tendency? repercussions? Awareness? Causing? Modalities on the
specifics will prevent the unawareness? continuing? just the thought process might revive? is
it appropriate to be unnecessarily apprehended, just with the fear of not being able to follow
undue short-cuts – after feeling the unethical freedom by understanding insufficiently?
A popular portrait with closed eyes, another portrait with closed ears, and another
portrait with closed mouth
Inference: Life, entrusted by the nature and God has prominence
Not even a minute’s time spent on OD/ leave of absence in the name of an observer, resource
person, or any other role external to the employment institution at any point of time and in
any form (point 7 for the complete list of ‘unique employer at each time') ; belief in the
practices of nationally, commensurately professionally, and internationally reputed
institutions that aim at the deserving institutional and national growth through exclusivity ;
actuality versus interpretation
Not even a paise (penny) or its equivalent, other than the regular salary in any form or at any
time, in total or by parts – not even a paise (penny) or its equivalent, more than the deserved,
as salary or any other form, at any time in total or by parts – suitable savings plan versus
6
remuneration/propagation? ; nothing unauthorized at any time either by the employment
institution or the government - world acknowledged qualifications and credentials, never
poised at deceiving anybody or any other entity by the reason of ignorance or any other ;
commensurate training in spite of the glitches ; regular and classroom education of sufficient
quantity, quality, and communication for the righteous purpose of education ; educating the
possible extents ; the exclusive purpose of each individual and the requirement of rational
balance for the useful existence ; enthusiastically and interestingly surviving for the purpose
of education, in a less aware ‘field and domain’ consisting of few qualified people, where
insufficient comparisons and impatience supersede in all the matters ; habits that develop
over a period of time and illegible promises appear to be the reason for intense thoughts or
actions ; remuneration/ moonlighting – consequences if it was perceived late? – actuality/
preparedness
The enrolled UG and ‘work force’ need to be wary about the unknown and unpredicted
consequences of ‘Attending the Classes from Home’ and ‘Work from Home’, obviously due
to the lack of understanding of the new situation that never existed in the recent history ; to
remember that the members of family need sufficient time to understand the stance and the
inherent consequences ; a meticulous and patient explanation by sparing sufficient time is
necessary to avoid such misunderstanding ; especially Dedicated/ Trustworthy/ Talented/
Mighty/ Capable enrolled UG and ‘Work Force’ need to observe special attention to the
situation for the reason that it is hard to find the necessary spare time in the schedule, due to
preoccupation by knowledge-thoughts ; restraint from the contempt-answers is primary ; think
twice if your answer may hurt the other members of the family ; integrity is important ;
Result : Preparation for the effective work ; essentials to receive the remuneration
Improvement of skills and capabilities in an ethical manner to gain the relevant exclusivity
Lack of ethics in interpreting the effectiveness of a professional activity at a point of time, can
cause abnormal circumstances. The interest on plagiarism/ time-expense may be
transformed in to useful processes ; In most of the situations, the response towards the
validated initiative efforts evolves as an objectionable behaviour that can lead to the practices
which presume the presence of an illegitimate tendency. After identifying the absence of such
a presumption, the revelation can lead to the propagation of a piece of information that can
never be substantiated by any legitimate methods and stand in the way of contemporary
progress – Furthermore, the tendency towards the unawareness, allocation, non-allocation,
resource orientation, and the sufficiency of people, catalyse further and there is seldom time
to question the authenticity of the interpretation. Such a situation causes unimaginable
circumstances to ensure the output, without subjecting to plagiarism. Role? basis to develop
unethical expectations/ grabbing-tendency/ propagation, in support? What commensurate
effort has been made? reason for not being able to continue the stance?
Even after being entrusted for an abnormal amount of admeasuring time until today, in spite
of the bias, if the deeds clearly poise at a disappointing trend, how justified is the suitability of
the position – especially if the effectiveness is trivial – the fancy decisions only result in the
7
loss of effort, time, and money of the beneficiaries – the beneficiaries take an example from
the icons – any realization that the projection of the trivial practices can discourage the work
force and the aspirants (what if they repeat?) ; qualitative measures – liquidity? any
understanding of how few personnel act under the shelter – sure about the consequences of
continuing? – if the eternal decision does not consider further opportunity?
Tribute to the stake holders of the teaching, academic, industrial, and research fields, and the
present employer/ past employers (point 7) for providing a leading, satisfactory, professional,
and valued life that ensures optimal performance and communication at all the times ;
Sufficiently conveyed the essentials
1 Educational/ Technical Qualifications:
S Level (UG / PG ) Year of Specialization/ Institution
No passing
S.S.C. (I – X 04.86 Nirmala High School, Board of Secondary
standard) Education – Hyderabad, India
H Certificate of National Merit, GoI
S +2 education 03.88 The Hindu College, Board of Intermediate
Education – Hyderabad, India
U B.Tech. (full time, 06.92 Engineering and Medical Common Entrance Test
N regular); from (month (EAMCET) Rank, in the undivided state in the
D JNTUCE ( the main- of the first attempt: 417 (place of study: a municipal
E campus college, award of town) ; Admission Acceptance rate: 2.5%;
R Kukatpally); the the Mechanical Engineering, Jawaharlal Nehru
college used to offer degree Technological University College of Engineering
G part time certificat (JNTUCE), JNTU, Hyderabad; (Project Guide:
R programmes e) Dr. K. Eswar Prasad, JNTUCE, Er. R. Naidu,
A BDL)
D 2 semesters : 25 + 27 teaching weeks
U ADSM-Advanced 04.92 Systems Management, National Institute of
A Diploma in Systems Information Technology (NIIT)-Regional Centre
T Management (dual (RC) for the undivided state, Hyderabad, Gained
I qualification) the working knowledge of programming and
O systems
N Audit for the next 3rd semester – Honours Diploma in Systems
08.92
sem. (discontinued Management (HDSM);
ug. to join UT abroad) Systems Management, NIIT-RC, Hyderabad
Result: Outstanding grade in the B.Tech. Project
NCC Hyderabad
08.91
Result of the total UG training: Admission at
an International University
M Audit of computer 12.92 GRE: Quantitative: 780/800; Verbal: 460/800;
A science – UG Analytical: 570/800; Year of Test: 1991 ;
S courses The University of Texas
T Result: Knowledge of relevance to Mechanical
E Engineering
8
R’
MS in ME 05.1995, Mechanical Engineering, The University of
S
defence ; Texas, Thesis Supervisor: Dr. Athanasiou – The
08.1995, University of Texas; Dr. Agrawal – UTHSCSA ;
awarded Result: Publications in specialist proceedings,
indexed research books, journals, etc. from 1995
that exceeded the educational qualification in the
Home Country ; details in 5.3, 5.7, 5.8, 5.9, and
5.10 ;
Exclusive learning Advanced Mechanism Design
Exclusive Inspiration imparted from the
commencement of the semester in August 1993,
without even speaking a word Professor Brinson ;
Attended numerous guest lectures taught by the
Industry and the Academic leaders in
Bioengineering ;
Executed course projects from ASME papers ;
Exclusive teaching (i) Fracture Mechanics, (ii)
domain specific fundamental courses of UG ;
Attended Industrial Training Programs on TQM ;
Experience at nationally, commensurately
professionally, and internationally reputed
MNCs, research, and academic organizations ;
Fast Track (2003) and BOYSCAST (2005)
Fellow, DST, GoI – competed with the scientists
of national research organizations including all
the DRDO and National Laboratories as well as
the faculty members from the institutions of
national importance including IITs/ IISc. in the
areas of science, technology, engineering,
mathematics, and medicine (further details at 5.7,
5.8, 5.9, and 5.10) ;
Sponsored Research Projects from the National
Funding Agencies (NFA);
Short Term Courses - teaching and organization
exclusivity that reflected in R11, R12, R33, …
R22 (details at 3.2, 4.0) ;
Exclusive Summer Training (details at 3.2) ;
Commensurate Consultancy (details at 5.10) ;
Proposal writing, submitting, and scheduling ;
Industrial Initiatives
9
D Ph.D. 07.2007, Applied Mechanics/ Mechanical Engineering/
O defence ; Bioengineering, Motilal Nehru National Institute
C 11.2008, of Technology (MN NIT – India); Jointly trained
T awarded at The University of Texas for one year; Thesis
O Supervisor: Dr. Jain – MN NIT; Dr. Wang – UT ;
R Result: Continuation of the mentioned exclusive
A results of the Master’s programme ;
L Teaching, educational research, feasibility study
Initiation of ASTM/ ASME publications ;
A Sponsored Research Project ;
Curriculum and syllabus, R11, R12, and R13 ;
Technological Education in a metropolitan city ;
Enabling the education atmosphere ;
Academic inputs for the institution autonomy ;
Exclusive education and justifiable impartment ;
Post-Doctoral and 01.2009- BOYSCAST Fellowship research
Senior Post-Doctoral 03.2016 Result: Continuation of the mentioned exclusive
results of the Master’s programme and Ph.D.
programme ;
Dissemination through ASTM and ASME ;
Exclusive academic initiatives of the institution
2 Teaching and Learning:
2.1 Teaching Interests:
Academic; Taught: UG- 26, PG - 9
Taught/ Worked (typical list):
 Engineering Mechanics – Statics (Text Book: EM by Timoshenko and Young)
 Engineering Mechanics – Dynamics (Text Book: EM by Timoshenko and Young)
 Kinematics of Machinery (Text Book: Theory of Machines by Bevan and Theory of
Machines and Mechanisms by Shigley)
 Dynamics of Machinery (Text Book: Theory of Machines by Bevan and Theory of
Machines and Mechanisms by Shigley)
 Mechanics of Solids - I (Text Book: Mechanics of Materials by Gere and
Timoshenko)
 Mechanics of Solids – II (Text Book: Mechanics of Materials by Gere and
Timoshenko)
 Finite Element Method (Text Book: Introduction to Finite Elements in Engineering by
Chandrupatla and Belegundu)
 Structural Analysis (Text Book: Structural Analysis by Hibbeler)
10
 Fracture Mechanics (Text Book: Fracture Mechanics: Introduction and Applications
by Anderson)
 Mechanism Design Laboratory (Lincages software, mechanism design for the
biomedical applications, design of machines, etc.)
 Materials Engineering Laboratory
 CNC Laboratory (Development of module for the machining time anticipation of jobs
when such a feature did not exist in commercial software, in 1992)
 Vehicle Dynamics Laboratory
 Craniofacial Mechanics Laboratory (change of file format of CT scan images when
there existed no commercial software to allow to input an image to any of the FEM/
FEA software)
 Computer Aided Equipment and Plant Layouts Laboratory (using AutoCAD)
 CAD Laboratory (3D Modeling; FEM/ FEA; modeling of residual limb; analysis of
bolted connections; dataflow diagrams, handling databases, etc.)
To Teach (Typical list; in addition to the aforesaid):
Theory of Elasticity and Plasticity, Theory of Plates and Shells, Theory of Elastic
Stability, Advanced Mechanism Design, Machine Design, Advanced Machine Design,
Advanced Mechanics of Solids, Vibrations, Biomechanics, Biology
2.2 Novel Teaching & Learning Techniques adopted:
Curricular reforms of R11 (AY 2011-2015) – ME and AE being a source for the
following:
 Comprehensive learning resources
 Lab protocols/ management
 Bridge course
 Learning by Doing
 Exercises and experiments
 To convey the essence of several sponsored research projects to the enrolled UG
 To convey the essence of several industry projects to the enrolled UG
 State of the art facilities and intellectual resources
 Exclusive curricular courses
 Fifteen short term training programs, eleven other technical training programs, and
numerous other personnel development programs
 A net revenue (after expenses) of INR 127,000.00 on short term training programs
(STTPs) during 2002-12 through a ‘nominal fee’ charged to the participants in order to
revive the ethics
 Assistance in addition to the regular teaching
References include:
11
 Detailed syllabus (curriculum) books for B.Tech. - R11 of ME and AE ; Chairman,
Board of Studies – ME and AE up to May 2012 ; presently available on the institution-
website)
 Minutes of the institutional meetings conducted during 2009-2011,
 Organization and teaching of STTPs and other programmes up to 2012
 Paruchuru, S.P., Syllabus, Curriculum, and Evaluation Concerns that Affect Quality in
Technical Education, National Conference on Quality in Technical Education,
VRSEC, Vijayawada, 18 November 2002, pp. 56-57
 Proposal submitted to CRISIL in 2001
 Proposal submitted to NIIT, New Delhi in 2001
Involvement in Curriculum Updating/ Design:
 Inputs to the engineering programs
 Effective revival of the curricula of UG programs starting from the first batch of the
autonomous institution (VNRVJIET)
 Guidance to obtain CAD software from the authorities much before the
commencement of Academic Year (AY) 2011-2012 with the existing resources,
providing thorough training of the members of faculty, and implementing instruction
of ‘engineering drawing and graphics courses, and the relevant courses’ of the
institution using CAD, from 2011, in spite of severe conservatory pressures from the
institution and the other regulatory authorities – one of the reasons to step down as
HOD, due to the burden of enforcement surveillance, in spite of the exclusive teaching
 Relevance of CAD to the circuit branches of study
 Source for the evolution of significant teaching improvements in the workshop
methodology from the commencement of AY 2017-2018 ; Demonstration of the
teaching methodology of laboratory classes that involves the instruction required from
the members of faculty, and the help of instructors, thus ensuring value addition to the
enrolled UG by involving the exclusive efforts and significant contribution of both the
roles of human resources mentioned above, by avoiding the overlap of responsibilities
 Resource and assistance in addition to the regular teaching; details at point 7.
3 Co-curricular and Extra-Curricular Activities:
3.1 Interests and Hobbies: most of the contents apply to the specific domains
Clear objective and the necessary approach (insufficiency might mislead; gratitude from
the inner heart; tolerance)
Aggressiveness versus conservativeness
Need to retain the healthy economy, thus promoting a healthy attitude towards the
necessary means ; mutual respect for the inheritance, history, and culture of each economy
; the need for retention ; critical and sufficient erudition ; Stability to ensure sufficiency
and balance ; need to enable the healthy transition
12
Enduring growth, reasonable standards of living, and improvement of various practices ;
Need for the work and the education practices – dignity of labor ; persistence on
tolerance, integrity, and humanity
Sustainable assistance to the needy in order to meet the basic requirement : exercise,
awareness about constraints, etc.
Means to effectively reduce the burden and enhance the result, for durability of the
systems
Setting up processing units at the probable pollution arising places, at the designated
places where there is surveillance about the operations and disposals is a step forward to
protect the water resources ; holding a market value to the used materials for recycling
purposes is one of the ways of reducing the pollution?
To ensure an ethical, stable, healthy, and happy world in spite of obstacles, and suitably
transfer to the next generation by the legitimate methods (citizens with ‘discipline and
dedication’ and individuals with values make the institutions, businesses, and economies
run efficiently)
Means to produce effective human resources that prevent the employment in fraud sectors
Efficiency in organizations: false beliefs about wrong activities could lead to severe
implications ; conscience/ consciousness ; integrity versus intolerance/ inhumanity ;
learning versus inertness/ interference ; means of enduring)
To restrain from involuntary or inappropriate public expression and the effect on values ;
cautiousness about the obvious interpretation of the unmeant ; refinement in the other
viewpoints, causing no/ minimum disturbance to the progress
Awareness on cleanliness of public premises is a good initiative that happened in the recent
past. Posters may campaign the practice of bringing a hygienic waste-bag to put the
probable waste of eatables, safe products as permitted, etc. that accumulate during the
travel, hold the responsibility for the contents, and dispose after getting down the train in
order to meet the constraints. Such measures might help to stop the prevalence of diseases
in the nation of high population, at the affordable costs. Modification to the toilets in rail,
put forward as a part of this initiative can be further improved. The modification to other
public facilities by considering the humanitarian practices, improves the ambience and
work conditions. ‘Ways of acknowledging the initial accomplishment in a proper manner
being one of the moral responsibilities’ versus inhuman traits. The ancient and
contemporary Dignity of labour!
The methods to improve the income as well as the practices that interfere with the life,
might need reconsideration ; The practice of building ramp in the road margin has one of
the concerns that requires consideration - encroachment ; addressing the sensitive problem
could enable the effectiveness of the roads and the life
13
Improvement of a reliable, safe, and secure public transportation system is one of the
measures for implementing an effective society in the countries of high population density?
Such a public transportation system might run vehicles of relevant size (like SETWIN?) to
suit the local needs and roads – time, effort – For example, smaller vehicles might run the
shuttle service effectively on the roads of smaller width and help to effectively transport
the public to the wider ‘roads and junctions’? Such an initiative reduces the pressure for
human resources? Thus provides an opportunity in an endeavour to improve the national
productivity that meets the basic needs?
The policies that (1) improve the output that meets the basic needs of the population, (2)
improve the demand versus supply and the effectiveness of the human resources, (3)
enable the capability to minimize the burden, and (4) implement visionary incentives – that
help to perceive the legitimate livelihood with contentment, are some of the ways of
minimizing the unrest
At present there exist two streams to study the engineering UG programmes (B.E/ B.Tech/
B.S) in the nation. One of those streams is to study 12 years (10+2) of high school
education (apart from Kinder Garten – KG, i.e. apart from the education prior to I
standard) and then enter into the I year of the UG programme. The other stream is to
study 10 years of high school education (apart from KG), then to study a 3 year poly-
technique diploma programme, and then enter into the II year of the UG programme
mentioned above. Therefore, the enrolled UG from both the streams study common
syllabus starting from the II year of the programme. Such a system might nullify the
exclusive strengths of the enrolled UG of the second stream, mentioned above. The
students belonging to the second stream mentioned above might possess skills that might
help the manufacturing sector if they study a UG programme that constitutes
laboratory and theory courses in 2:1 proportion. The enrolled UG belonging to the
first stream may possess better skills that help the design, analysis, and development
sectors. Caution
Consequences of wrong feedback systems and the use of such feedback, on the
education can adversely affect the life. Using an influential role and maintaining silence
to enable the prevalence of ignorance is one of the professional barriers for the teachers
with student centric teaching as appropriate to the programme of study and proven
academic record ; Experienced people have succumbed to blunders in interpreting the
feedback system (just a question of ‘what is the purpose of teaching a course?’ will
explain?)
Mechanisms to encourage reading ‘nationally, commensurately professionally, and
internationally’ good textbook for each course (subject) of the engineering programs, and
the feasible methods to implement ; awareness on the practice to routinely write the
disconnected content during the lecture ; perceiving the distinction between the intricate
situations and functioning accordingly ; practice of office hours ; avoidance of wrong use
of the flexibility in the preparation of the syllabi/ curriculum and sensible methods to
14
implement ; a rational approach to prevent the technical lapses ; the applicable suggestions
as per the cognition in order to ensure peace and integrity
The expectations might reflect the actuality, considering the awareness on the effective
modern learning techniques especially when the specific educational field and the
emerging employment sector are new. To note that no educational institution can assure
100% faculty of particular quality and no regulatory authority specifies that the senior-
most faculty teach specific courses. Therefore, it is good to draw advantage, when it
comes within the reach and it is important to perceive that certain guidelines are poised to
bring the situation into the regulatory ambience and insisting on such things even in the
case where each and every second of time is important only proves the susceptibility to
misleads ; eg. a fair opportunity to follow ‘nationally, suitably professionally, and
internationally’ good text book and gain the professional exclusivity ; until such a practice
becomes common, is it good if the faculty members above the designation of Assistant
Professor, teach only the programme specific prerequisite courses of UG and suitably
commensurate non-elective UG courses, in terms of quality, quantity, and communication
up to the ‘Vision and Mission’? The skill capability gained through teaching the regular
course work is supposed to aim at the national, suitably professional, and international
quality that is commensurate with the programme of study. Following the academic
inputs, develops the skill to ‘follow and teach’ the contents of ‘nationally, suitably
professionally, and internationally’ good text book and the courage to ‘fairly encourage
and guide’ to follow such a textbook. The institutions do not follow a general guideline of
only rendering to the practices that may be understood by the ‘enrolled UG’. Does the
nature create an infant only up to the knowledge that can be perceived by the infant? The
authorities need to have a firm plan and implementation to ensure the ethical
effectiveness. Establishment strategy and the allocation may further address the unethical
practices. If the supervisory personnel do not have the awareness to interpret the
dissemination, the same opinion must reflect. If the sources that have conflict of interest
form a kotary to fabricate the grants, is it not the time to give up the unethical short-cuts?
If it is not too late, a sincere mechanism of allocation by considering the justifiable
approach will help? If there lacks an understanding to interpret the activities being put
forward, after being literally absent from 2011 for an abnormal amount of time after the
induction of autonomous practices, considering that the education did not give the
exposure, what would be a better option than to provide the awareness, even though there
is no receptive stance? Any understanding of ‘what information is essential’ to interpret
the genuine professional activities in the wake of the awareness at the point of time? If
one can get away with unethical short-cuts, is it possible to restrict the prevalence?
Avoiding the wrong use of flexibility in the preparation of syllabus/ curriculum, might be
one of the ways of improving the situation, especially if an institution wants to train the
enrolled UG at the national and the commensurately professional quality in accordance
with the vision and mission. Technical knowledge that has been emphasized at the
beginning of the introduction of the programme of study will primarily create the overlap
of the responsibilities. One of the better options is to gain the knowledge that is
15
commensurate with a pioneering institution. Due to age or learnt behavior, if the
mentioned option is not viable, the simple acceptance so that the unethically oriented
motive (details in summary) would not repeat intentionally/ unintentionally, could
improve the situation. Even after experiencing such a behavior, for an abnormal duration,
with no change in the attitude, and reiteration of the attitude, time to time, does the
profession withstand? If a technical faculty member follows the ‘nationally, suitably
professionally, and internationally’ good text book and follows the ways of not
encouraging the enrolled UG to follow such text book, such a practice only remains in the
syllabus book. If the syllabus narration is made and implemented in a manner where the
students build up the pre-requisites from the first semester, is there any possibility of the
students not being able to follow? If sincere efforts are being put forward to develop the
practices of following the ‘nationally, commensurately professionally, and internationally’
good textbook, the efforts of various resources might pose a challenge to such an
initiative. Just like the use of CAD became a continuously common instruction practice
for ‘engineering drawing and graphics courses, and the relevant courses’ in the nation,
starting from 2011, why cannot the continuous practice of effectively recommending
‘nationally, commensurately professionally, and internationally’ good textbook become so
common? Unless such a system is implemented, the PG programmes cannot stand up to
the deserving standards of the nation ; until such a practice becomes common, is it good if
the faculty members above the designation of Assistant Professor, teach only the
programme specific prerequisite courses of UG and suitably commensurate non-elective
UG courses, in terms of quality, quantity, and communication up to the ‘Vision and
Mission’? Few institutions have already started and the others might fall behind ; need
verification? may choose to degrade ; following ‘nationally, commensurately
professionally, and internationally’ good text book is not sufficient ; essential to
effectively recommend and encourage the enrolled UG within the limits of influence ;
let’s face the negative campaigning by legitimate methods. Perceiving the exclusive
strength is essential ‘to gain the confidence and give up the direct/indirect unethical
propagation’ and target the continuous improvement. If the practices followed until now
have not been sincerely utilized to understand the essentials, such practices may be
reviewed with purity of thought and capable reasoning? How reasonable is it to evasively
ignore each and every practice that can be implemented? What is essential to ensure the
retention of every genuine human resource, the genuineness being unaltered?
Implementing suitable initiative by ethical means in the context of the teaching profession
might be possible by concatenating and uploading the certificates of high school education
up to the 10th standard, +2 education, ITI/ poly technique details if not the 10th standard/
+2 education, UG education regular/ part-time/ three-year/ four-year programme, study-
institution, acceptance rate, along with the affiliating university, similar details of post
graduate education, Ph.D. programme, etc. along with the profile that clearly outlines the
above details, C.V./ resume, and the clear proofs of the accumulated in-service credentials
in an accessible form with the proper surveillance, and clear instructions could minimize
the consequences and provide awareness? By glancing at the mentioned details, even a
16
guided-layman can figure out the resourcefulness, with the basic knowledge. Awareness
is the primary source to revive. A massive evaluation phenomenon needs
reconsideration? Imparting knowledge is important and the capabilities are more
important and therefore cannot afford to render to the incompatible practices? The details
are conclusive.
Prevailing concern: The members of faculty of several institutions get paid
proportionately with the members of faculty of the Institutes of National Importance and
why are the average achievements of members of faculty of the former, not even 10% of
the average achievements of the members of faculty of the later, in terms of quality,
quality, communication, and dedication? The education field looks so simple as well as
complex such that for every thought provoking question, there is an easy answer that
appears to look right – misinterpreting the ethics of training, undergone? – does the
training not answer the essentiality of the initial training – if so, not cognizing even the
basic ethics, made a tangible attempt to nullify the purpose of R11, the first curriculum
and the and the subsequent revisions (being abnormally absent during the improvement
process from 08.2011, due to trivial reasons) in spite of not realizing the ‘incompatible
technical (mechanical) UG qualification for the administration purpose’? – What if a
legitimate objection at the regulatory level arises, about the incompatibility of the level of
inputs, understanding the limitation of the administration? – finding basis to blame the
quality of enrollment of the UG programme that is being offered (previous to the previous
question ; also, pages 5 and 7)? One of the mechanisms to proactively and sufficiently
improve, is to monitor the syllabus narration (caution!), follow ‘nationally,
commensurately professionally, and internationally’ good text book for each and every
teaching-subject, announce the same in the class, fairly at the beginning of the respective
semester and be supportive to the aspiringly enrolled UG in overcoming the inherent
difficulty, get advice and try the ‘faculty initiatives’ suggested by the regulatory authority
even if it consumes good amount of time initially, and work sufficiently beyond the
normal work-hours from the beginning of the service or until meeting the sufficiency.
Such practices may be feasibly implemented by every individual and enable to think
beyond the incompatible behavior. Such practices along with the attitude might transform
the nation into a sustainably resourceful nation
In an education system where most of the practices still need the refinement, it is
impractical to have a fair opinion of the value impartment through the curricular activity.
The following discussion might help? Identification of 4 – 6 programme specific
prerequisite courses in every UG programme of ‘technology and engineering’
specialization is essential, to gain the prerequisite knowledge that in turn helps to
understand the further courses and subsequently helps to fare well in the early days of the
career. The concerned people do not usually get an opportunity to perceive on time. In
other words, if a junior or senior of an UG program or early professionals perceive for the
first time, it is life consuming because, the spent time can never be made available. It is
not sufficient to merely pass such courses and every enrolled UG may aim at attaining
17
maximum knowledge by sincere efforts. One of the reasons that the enrolled UG do not
have a chance to perceive on time is that the technical education system did not yet
impose the sufficient prerequisite system that takes care of such a problem. The
international universities of the developed countries follow individual course specific
prerequisites and therefore such a problem does not arise. However, the medical colleges
of the nation follow a prerequisite system that is feasible in the technical education as
well. The medical colleges give a clear instruction to the enrolled UG, at the time of
admission, that passing few essential courses like anatomy (similar to the programme
specific prerequisite courses in technology and engineering) is a prerequisite to get
promoted to the next semester. Therefore the medical students observe the importance of
such courses at the time of admission and spend good amount of time to excel in their
careers of choice. It is good to note from the effective implementation point of view that
the concerned resources do not have the possibility to get mislead, because the essentiality
of prerequisite courses appears in writing. It is good to note that few aware-teachers
instruct the enrolled UG of trustworthy conduct, so that they gain a fair chance to excel in
the programme of study as well as the career. It is also good to note that only the senior
members of faculty teach such courses in the medical colleges. Also, to note that such
senior faculty members in good medical colleges are not undermined and defamed to the
possible extent, due to the bias of the incompatible occupants of administrative positions.
Until such a system is customized to the technical education, is it good if the institutions
follow their strategies for the effective implementation? Just like the use of CAD
became a continuously common instruction practice for ‘engineering drawing and
graphics courses, and the relevant courses’ in the nation, starting from 2011, why
cannot the practice of effectively intimating the importance of the programme specific
prerequisite courses be inculcated, apart from effectively recommending ‘nationally,
suitably professionally, and internationally’ good textbook for the curricular
courses? Until such a practice becomes widely common, is it good if the faculty
members above the designation of Assistant Professor, teach only the programme
specific prerequisite courses of UG and suitably commensurate non-elective UG
courses, in terms of quality, quantity, and communication, up to the ‘Vision and
Mission’? The problem relevant to the mentioned situation is so severe that the
employment organizations are forced to test for the pre-requisites to the ‘programme
specific prerequisite courses’. Testing the job aspirants merely by the mentioned
procedure further confuses the enrolled UG in identifying the programme specific
prerequisite courses. For example, such prerequisite courses in the mechanical
engineering specialization are Engineering Mechanics – Statics and Dynamics,
Mechanics of Solids (or Strength of Materials/ Mechanics of Materials), Metallurgy, Fluid
Mechanics, Thermodynamics, Kinematics of Machinery, and Production Technology (or
Production Engineering/ Manufacturing Technology/ Manufacturing Engineering). An
example for Civil Engineering: Engineering Mechanics, Mechanics of Solids (Strength of
Materials/ Mechanics of Materials), Fluid Mechanics, Structural Analysis, Building
Drawing, Construction Materials, etc. An example of software and connecting branches
18
of study: Introduction to Programming (like C), Data Structures, Advanced Data
Structures (data Structures – II), Discrete Mathematics, Computer Organization,
Computer Architecture, and Operating Systems, etc. The change of course/ subject names
is possible ; Creating a nationally and internationally good text book involves ; Fluency in
such courses puts the graduate at the helm of the engineering field. The lists given here
are the essential courses in which good efforts and knowledge are necessary to gain the
programme specific knowledge, through the curricular courses, in the named
specializations. In other words, this list cannot be interpreted that the other courses are
insignificant ; sufficient inputs as per the cognition
There is a requirement to implement the practical mechanisms to improve the competencies of
the engineering programmes, at par with the national, commensurately professional, and
international norms, for the benefit of the nation, profession and industrialization. The
alternatives to effectively implement such mechanisms, might help? Can the exclusivity
gained through effectively encouraging the enrolled UG to follow ‘nationally,
commensurately professionally, and internationally’ good text book provide the reliable
solution? Is it possible that such a practice might develop in to a widely accepted practice
similar to the continuous practice of instructing the ‘engineering drawing and graphics
courses and the relevant courses’ through CAD software, from 2011? Until such a practice
becomes common, is it good if the faculty members above the designation of Assistant
Professor, teach only the programme specific prerequisite courses of UG and commensurate
non-elective UG courses, in terms of quality, quantity, and communication up to the ‘Vision
and Mission’? Thus, is it reasonable to allow the responsibility of gaining nationally,
commensurately professionally, and internationally evident exclusivity on behalf of the
institution? Caution: The sincerity and the dedication in imparting the inputs may continue.
This alternative is much softer than the less-known ‘cultural revolution’ (closing the
educational institutions and asking to work in the farms/ industry/ government/ military) that
prevailed at another place. Modification of the minimum duration of academic programmes
and the minimum requirement of academic credits, for the award of academic degrees might
help to accommodate the changes including the placement of emphasis on attendance. For
example, universities of few developed nations successfully run the academic programmes in
a semester system, by limiting the minimum requirement of academic credits for the award of
UG programmes, to one hundred and forty and this number is about 30% less than the
comparative credit requirements of the domestic universities. Unless there is sufficient policy
backup from the authorities, it is very difficult to bring the resourceful change – due to the
fear of the students facing difficulty – a genuine attempt will confidently defend the reform –
if there is sufficient number of people who can vouch, such a reform further paves way – lack
of the willingness will prolong the process – fancy attempts to attain sponsored research
projects by TRUCE, or by feigning attempts, by convincing by the ridiculous logic will pose
several glitches to such a reform ; PLEASE DO NOT BLAME ; HAVE BEEN
INTIMATING ; Patents are supposed to reduce the financial burden on the institution – why
the contrary – diverting the institutional revenue by the unethical advances? repercussion?
until the process is on the right track, is it good if the faculty members above the designation
19
of Assistant Professor, teach only the programme specific prerequisite courses of UG and
commensurate non-elective UG courses, in terms of quality, quantity, and communication up
to the ‘Vision and Mission’? The society gives a fair opportunity to rehabilitate those who
had objectionable habits that are not suitable to the academic field, with the intention that the
individual has been transformed ; However, if the transformation only happened from a habit
to another habit – The rationale for including the communication in the personal (personnel)
file, further helped?
Even after being entrusted continuously for an abnormal amount of time, until now, in spite of
the bias, is it not unfair to blame the immaculate achievers especially when the resources
being enjoyed are the fortune of the unmentioned achievers – just with the assumption that
there is little scope for perceiving? – If such obvious traits are prevalent, the available metrics
are insufficient?
Basic needs ? – sufficiency? – reliable grout output? answerable legitimate occupancy?
cost? affordability? insufficient comparisons? taming the attitude? opportunity? – safety? Is it
not unfair to pretend, being in a position, when the resources of objectionable traits stand in
the way of the duties thus arising legitimate migration concerns, for an abnormal amount of
time, especially if the position is the result of the fortune created by the unmentioned
achievers, unmentioned in the context of the duties? Is it not an expense of time? To not
distinguish the lead versus mislead? Stance? sure about the consequences of continuing? If the
sources understand that it is just about retaining the position?
If the priority is to appoint the individuals, so that silence can be observed even when the
blunders are not brought to notice, how justified is it to make an attempt to utilize the
situation when it appeared harmless? How justified is it to professionally harm, when a
genuine attempt was made to identify the lapses, in spite of the situation, which could have
been avoided if there is willingness? How justified is it to try to use the leads to cover up the
blunders? can someone getaway with the self-survival attempts, if the baseless and ignorant
apprehension that prevailed long time ago primarily due to lack of information, is being
utilized, when the prevailing people have no acquaintance? Consequences, if the concerned
details are interpreted the right way? (1) without cognizing, (2) without even making use of
the abnormally continuous extent of time, (3) only interpreting each and every lead for the
self-survival, and (4) misusing the position to stall the progress, by maintaining silence to
illegitimacy - any possibility of understanding the mentioned revelations? eternal decision!
It is not possible to bring strict regulation in all the required aspects due to the informal/
logical restraint of maximum reforms within the tenure, considering the conventional mindset
of the incumbents, the natural public restraint to a social change, and the obligations that
might come in the way, even in the case of convincing and rationally good law or act at the
time. It is a constant phenomenon to meticulously scrutinize and tolerate the improvements at
the time, for the sustenance of the society and the young nation that was reborn amidst of
several opposing forces only few decades ago. Consequences of continuing?
At any point of time during the high school education, no student may be compelled to study
more than one curricular subject (course) on languages irrespective of the medium of
20
instruction in order to establish an effective and regionally/ nationally/ internationally
competent curriculum – to understand that even the regionally good industry has to compete
at the international level ; However, there may be a choice of opting for one spoken
domestic-language course as a non-curricular (like co-curricular or extra-curricular) course.
The English translation of technical words/ terms of high school sciences and mathematics
subjects (courses) may be introduced in the text books, irrespective of the medium of
instruction.
It is imperative to effectively and peacefully deal with the neighbors and the reliable
competency come in to utmost importance. Health, fitness, less dependence on the medicines,
and character are some of the possible features that influence the efficiency. One year of
military training for at least the aspiring graduate men is essential to develop a competent
defensive restraint and also to develop the physique and health. Eg.: selective prospering
nations have been following such practice
Developing the Industrial Training Institutions (ITIs) and other institutions that provide
effective training in the manufacturing sectors at par with the modern norms and the growing
population might help? The demand, domestic pay potential, and incentives for such
disciplines may be effectively intimated?
Prerequisites to enable? Repercussions? Awareness?
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
3.2 CCA/ ECA Organized: Without financial burden on the employment institution
Result: (1) Started the continuous practice of instructing ‘engineering drawing and
graphics courses, and the relevant courses’ for all branches of study from 2011 – till date,
using CAD; to the knowledge, it is the first time in the nation, and later, it became the
common practice in the nation (2) Ways to improve employability through curricular
improvements (3) Faculty, started following and recommending nationally and
professionally good textbooks (4) Faculty and enrolled UG started to get the complement-
help from several NPTEL courses that were added from 2014
Purpose of Engineering Drawing and Graphics using CAD : (1) Basic career essential
and pre-requisite for understanding CAD software, as appropriate to the core
engineering specializations of UG and (2) Spending time with CAD software in the first
year imbibes the practical knowledge of various software concepts that are relevant for
the other engineering specializations of UG
Reminder: The effective method of encouragement to sufficiently follow ‘nationally and
professionally’ good text book still needs further implementation
 Quality Placement Essentials for Engineers; AY 2020 – continues the essence;
coordinator and instructor, MED
 Solid Mechanics and Practical Problems in Mechanics of Solids; AY 2014-2015;
coordinator and instructor; MED
 Analysis of Engineering Problems; AY 2014 – continues the essence; coordinator and
instructor; MED
 Utilities in Creo; December 18 2013; coordinator and instructor; venue: AED
 Construction used in Various Parts of the World and Relevance to the Topics of
Engineering Analysis; AY 2013 – Continues the essence ; coordinator and instructor,
MED
 CAD Review; 12 hrs; August 07-23 2013 ; coordinator and instructor, MED
 Assistance to the sale of prescribed textbooks on the campus, as per the versions,
namely, R11 and R12 of the autonomous curriculum, Mechanical and Automobile
Engineering (MAE); August 01-09 2013
 MOU, brochure (drafts) and a feasibility report on the Post Graduate (PG) program
planned; AY 2008-2010
 PG program brochures, for AY 2009-2010, 2010-2011 and 2011-2012
 Introduction to 3D Finite Element Modeling using MDT; 08 hrs;.April 22-25 2004;
coordinator and instructor; MPED
 CAD/ CAM/ CAE; 04 hrs; February 25 2004; coordinator; Mechanical and Production
Engineering Department (MPED)
 On presenting papers at the national conventions held by reputed societies
 CAD; 08 hrs; October 29 2002; coordinator and one of the instructors (02 hours as the
instructor), MPED
36
 Curriculum, co-curriculum, and extra-curriculum, as a means of achieving the
educational objectives
 Choosing the best textbook in order to achieve the course objectives and as a means of
gaining comprehensive education
 Reading of nationally and professionally good textbooks, in order to meet technical
expectations of the enrolled UG and the education program
 Effective improvements in the curricula, ensuring assimilating of skills, and improving
abilities
 Significance of preparation to receive a lecture for effective learning, and
enhancement of skills and abilities
 Allocation of office hours to enhance the skills and abilities of the needy and enrolled
 Influence of breathing, relaxation, and physical exercises on ethical learning,
retaining, and practice
 Effective performance methods for the benefit of the people, organizations, economy,
nation, and the world
 Learning methods in order to ensure course and program objectives and to transform
into a successful person
 Effective means for withstanding the distractive elements and remaining as an
effective contributor in the profession
 Submission of NBA application of the department in AY 2010-2011, and the
necessary preparation
 Gnat Chart for versatile applications, and effectively scheduling the tasks and
resources for an endeavor
 Group technology and the effects versus involuntary/ ambiguous/ unknown/ discrete
destruction
 Means of creating an interest and the necessary action required to achieve it, in the
national and global scenario
 Interests, integrity, stance, and unity in no uniformity; benefits of refinement over
interests and the applicable near term goals; tolerance versus personal gain
 Campus atmosphere and everlasting practices for the stability; need to face the day
today challenges
 Choice as per the strengths, interests, conservativeness, aggressiveness, and need in
the wake of global changes; ability to withstand
 Comprehensive reports on industrial visits of academia in order to ensure and
comprehend the purpose of engineering
 Feasible methods and preparation for leading to academic excellence, and reviving the
lives
37
 Class work and reviews, and participation in the effective events, industrial visits and
development; requirements for allocation
 Several sponsored research projects and a number of industry projects, over a large
realm and methodology
 Several state of the art facilities and intellectual resources, up to the maximum extent
that the human resources and the institution can assimilate, without financial burden,
intended to revive education and ethical practices
 Global ‘phenomena and transformation’ and its relevance to the need for education
and development
 Importance of the students, improving the abilities of absorbing certain basics/
fundamentals pertaining to the chosen field of academic specialization that fosters the
continuous learning as long as alive and imbibe the abilities to quickly verify and
utilize the available multipurpose intelligence
 Achieving excellence in skills and abilities in the medium of instruction apart from
gaining the depth of knowledge and continuously improving the technical and general
abilities for ensuring effectiveness in the job
 Skills, abilities, and other necessities needed in order to enable and support an ethical,
stable, healthy, and happy world
3.3 CCA/ ECA Attended: Events
3.4 Counseling and Mentoring Activity: Mentioned
3.5 Committees Involved in: Member, Board of Studies, Regulations R12 and R13, UG and
PG (2012-2013), Chairman, Board of Studies, Regulation R11, UG and PG (2011-2012),
Head of the Department (HoD), MAE; 12.2010 – 08.2011, Member, disciplinary
committee (2010), Member, academic projects committee (2010), Member, project review
committee (2009-2011; 2018-), Member, academic council (2009), Member, research
committee (2009-2011; 2018-), Member, curriculum preparation committee (2009),
Editor, for two editions of knowledge asset (05/2009-03/2011)
4. Conference / Workshop / Seminar / Guest Lectures:
4.1 Conducted: Without financial burden on the employment institution or NFA
Result: Started the continuous practice of instructing ‘engineering drawing,
engineering graphics, and the relevant courses’ for all branches of study from 2011 –
date, using CAD; to the knowledge, it is the first time in the nation and later, it became
the common practice in the nation
Purpose: (1) Basic career essential and pre-requisite for understanding CAD
software – as appropriate to core engineering specializations of UG and (2) Spending
time with CAD software in the first year imbibes the practical knowledge of various
software concepts that are relevant for other engineering specializations of UG
 Machine Drawing using AutoCAD; 24 hrs; September 04-October 31 2014;
coordinator and instructor; MED
38
 Machine Drawing using AutoCAD; 24 hrs; August 03-18 2012; coordinator and
instructor; MAE
 CAD/ CAE; 96 hrs; June 20-July 02 2011; coordinator and one of the instructors (66
hrs as the instructor); MED
 Process Plan for Machining Jobs; 24 hrs; June 27-July 02 2011; MAE
 Computational Fluid Dynamics; 24 hrs; June 09-11 2011; MAE
 Finite Element Analysis using ANSYS; 24 hrs; June 02-04 2011; coordinator and one
of the instructors (24 hours as an instructor); MAE
 Refresher Course in Mechanical Engineering; 54 hrs; May 02-June 01 2011;
coordinator and one of the instructors (11 hrs as the instructor); MED
 Use of AutoCAD for Teaching Engineering Courses (04 modules); 58 hrs; April 11-
August 25 2011; coordinator and one of the instructors (58 hrs as an instructor); MAE
 Refresher Course in Mechanical Engineering; 39 hrs; January 20-March 31 2011;
coordinator and one of the instructors (12 hrs as the instructor); MED
 Machine Drawing using AutoCAD; 30 hrs; January 10-March 21 2011; coordinator
and instructor; MAE
 CAD/ CAE 48 hrs; November 30-December 05 2010; coordinator and instructor;
MAE
 Computer Aided Drafting using AutoCAD; 24 hrs; September 20-October 15 2010;
coordinator and instructor; MAE
 CAD/ CAE, 40 hrs; November 23-27 2009; coordinator and instructor; MED
 Computer Aided 3D Modeling and Finite Element Analysis using MDT 6.0; 48 hrs;
May 30-June 04 2005; coordinator and instructor; MPED
 Computer Aided Drafting using AutoCAD; 40 hrs; October 27-November 01 2003;
coordinator and instructor; MPED
4.2 Attended: Without financial burden on the employment institution or NFA
 ECMFD; MN NIT-A, July 7-19 2008
 QSI:DA, TATA STEEL/SNTI - Jamshdpur, September 01-04 1998
 Technical talks
5. Academic Contribution and Research & Consultancy:
5.1 Invited Lectures: 1 (at a conference)
5.2 Articles/ Chapters Published in Books:
5.3 Books Published as Single Author or as Editor: 5 technical reports (additionally, 6
books in progress at various stages of development)
39
Eg. of a completed book: Development of a new technique to determine the critical strain
energy release rate of bone and other biological materials, 1994
5.4 Projects Guided:
UG final projects (including Part Time Program): 22; UG pre-project training: 23; PG
theses: 4; without financial involvement from the employment institution
5.5 Research Interests:
Mechanical Engineering, MultiDisciplinary Research; Bioengineering
5.6 Ph.D. Students:
a) Enrolled: b) Submitted: c) Awarded:
No Ph.D. program offered at the institution
5.7Papers Presented in International/ National Journals:
Result: Improved the quality of the programmes of study and the ethically teaching faculty
research by providing feasible and respectful access to the world class learning resources –
R11, R12, R13, and reports ; Head count versus purpose
Initiation of several publications in wos/ jcr/ sci journals, held by the internationally proven
professional societies, from 1993, in order to establish the consistency in teaching ; first
international journal publication in ‘technology and engineering’, as the primary and the
corresponding author, at a self-finance institution in the undivided state, in a JCR journal (not
a conference proceedings journal or volume or issue or similar) – at the time when not a self-
finance autonomous institution existed at the mentioned geography and in the area of
technology and engineering ; this is the first journal paper published in fracture mechanics, as
the primary and the corresponding author, at a self-finance institution in the nation ; first in
the nation to publish 12 international (includes the most reputed journal from ASTM
International, namely JTE-2017, online-07.2016) journal papers as the primary and the
corresponding author in specialist journals, from a self-finance institution ; grateful justice to
the educational infrastructure followed by the development of reasonable employment and
infrastructural roadmap!
Significant publication and the result:
S.P.Paruchuru, Consumer-Credit-Rating-System for Developing Countries, 2004 (and
discussions with the corporate, CRISIL between 2001-2003 transformed into a national credit
policy decision and Unique Identification – UID programs during 2005-2009)
5.8 Papers Presented in International/ National Conferences:
Started with an international publication in 1996.
Continued in the conferences of Vignana Jyothi Society, ASTM, and ASME till the present
day.
Time is the only limitation to restrict to the mentioned professional societies.
5.9 Sponsored Research Projects: National Funding Agencies ; typical list ; obtained and
executed ; during 1993-2018
40
Result: Improved the quality of the programmes of study and the ethically teaching
faculty research by providing feasible and respectful access to the world class learning
resources - R11, R12, R13 and use of CAD thereafter
Title Agency Period Grant Ongg/
amount Compl
Sponsored Research
Standardization Aspects of Compact SERC, DST, NFA 2003- 7,42,000.0 Comple
Sandwich Specimen for Fracture 2006 0 ted
Result: at points
Toughness Testing of Bone, Principal
5.7, 5.8, 6, and 7
Investigator, SR/FT/L-83/03
Total number awardees throughout the
nation: 200 (Two hundred only)
Open competition: (i) the scientist
designates in science, technology,
engineering, mathematics and medical
domain of the research establishments,
though out the nation including DRDO
and National Laboratories and (ii) the
regular faculty members of the
institutions of national importance
including IITs and IISc. My consistent
contribution to the employment
institution is clear and proven in spite
of the awareness
Better Opportunities for Young SERC, DST, NFA Selecte INR ‘
Scientists in the Chosen Fields of d:2005 13,46,490.
Science and Technology Result: at points 00
2006-
(BOYSCAST), Principal Investigator, 5.7, 5.8, 6, and 7
2007
SR/BY/E-038/05
Total number of awardees throughout
the nation: 43 (Forty three only)
Open competition: (i) the scientist
designates in science, technology,
engineering, mathematics and medical
domain of the research establishments,
though out the nation including DRDO
and National Laboratories and (ii) the
regular faculty members of the
institutions of national importance
including IITs and IISc. My consistent
contribution to the employment
institution is clear and proven in spite
of the awareness
BOYSCAST Fellowship Research, Only technical 2007- INR13,46, ‘
sanction with no 2008;
41
Principal Investigator financial 2009- 490.00
commitment: 2016
SR/BY/E-038/05 (at the employment
SERC, DST, NFA
institution)
Result: at points
Total number of awardees from all the
5.7, 5.8, 6, and 7
relevant disciplines in the nation: 43
(Forty three only)
Open competition: (i) the scientist
designates in science, technology,
engineering, mathematics and medical
domain of the research establishments,
though out the nation including DRDO
and National Laboratories and (ii) the
regular faculty members of government
funded institutions of national
importance including IITs and IISc.
My consistent contribution to the
employment institution is clear and
proven in spite of the awareness
Multiscale Mechanical Methods for AICTE, NFA 2012- INR ‘
Characterization of Bone and 2016 17,52,088.
Result: at points
Biomaterials, Principal Investigator 46
5.7, 5.8, 6, and 7
8023/ RID/ RPS-74/Pvt (II
policy)/2011-2012
The grant is not applicable to the
government funded nationally
important institutions like IITs, IISc,
etc. or the research establishments like
DRDO and National Laboratories. It is
only applicable to the state funded
academic institutions of the nation
including Universities. However, the
nature of funding that is clear from the
sanction order (four pages) is in
accordance with the quality of the
national competitiveness explained for
the aforesaid sponsored research
projects/ fellowships. My consistent
contribution to the employment
institution is clear and proven in spite
of the awareness : Autonomous
Syllabus, R11, R12, R13, … R22
Continuous research at the employment Genuine Expenses From 9 Lakhs 4 Lakhs
institution, exceeding the glitches – international 2011 up to 2018 from
quality research
42
equipment 2018
Result: at points
5.7, 5.8, 6, and 7
Other external funding from the National Funding Authorities can be found in the next table,
following the appended table
Craniofacial Mechanics: FEA of UT 1994- USD ‘
Human Craniofacial Skeleton to 1995 3,000.00
Analyze the Influences of Buttress
Fracture Mechanics of Bone UT 1993- USD ‘
1994 11,000.00
Interspecies Study of Bone Fracture UT 1994- USD ‘
Toughness 1995 10,000.00
Vehicle Dynamics: Stability of Heavy UT 1993 USD ‘
Articulated Vehicles 2,000.00
Other external funding (from the National Funding Agencies):-
Upgradation of Thermal Engineering AICTE, 2012-2013 INR Completed
Laboratory; Chief Coordinator NFA 4,85,12 (Executed by
5.00 the prevailing
8024/RIFD/MOD-370 (Pvt.)/policy-
HOD)
III/2011-2012
Travel Grant UGC, 09-15 INR Completed
NFA November 1,49,07
F. No. 6-420/2018(TG) ;
2018 2.00
CAUTION about the prevalence ; A
tangible attempt to degrade the Beware of the dormant practices that are poised to
Institutions of Study, the Employment hurt the reputation of the institution, authority,
Institution, and the Authority! Hidden professional, etc.
Motive to degrade technically and
Being in an exemplary position, if the unethical
financially? Who is helping?
What could have been the adverse effects practices are followed, such efforts finalize?
on me in the absence of the auxiliary
Black Mail tendency - no matter what I do,
professional training and credentials?
nothing happens to me, because of the kotary
Result of hiding the credentials?
network, made after the appointment? Stance?
Unprofessional advances of one of the
Consequences? Pages 5, 7, and 17 ; One of the
staff members, while the file is being
reasons for asking to include in the personal file?
retrieved in 2019? Influence?
5.10 Consultancy Projects: Typical list; 1995 – 2002 ; Suitable professional revenue
Title Agency Per Grant Ongoing/
iod amount Completed
43
Multipurpose Materials Processor MCC 1y NA; part of Completed
the job
Roof Support FP “ “ “
Versatile Rolling MCC “ “ “
Use of Simulators in Manufacturing KI “ “ “
Member Data System SME “ “ “
Resource Data System AFB-R “ “ “
Multipurpose Recycling Enabler EII “ “ “
Plant Layouts for Ambience FP “ “ “
Preventive Maintenance System EII “ “ “
Activity Based Costing AI “ “ “
Development of Manufacturing Systems AI “ “ “
Handling of Metallic Products FP “ “ “
Handling of Heavy Equipment TS “ “ “
Indexing of Engineering Drawings EII “ “ “
Indexing of BIS codes TS “ “ “
Development of Sluice Gates TS “ “ “
Development of Reinforced Concrete Mixer MCC “ “ “
Analysis of Engine Components KI “ “ “
Development of Container Systems EII “ “ “
Development of Containers EII “ “ “
Development of Bio Systems UT “ “ “
Development of Advanced Materials FGS “ “ “
Submitted CCRS Proposal CRISIL Not applicable; Prepared/
Submitted during my stay at
Submitted Bridge Course Proposal NIIT
VRSEC
Submitted Powered Roof Support Proposal APHMEL
44
6 Awards / Honors Received: NO FINANCIAL BURDEN
 BOYSCAST fellowship, University of Texas, awarded by: Department of Science and
Technology, GoI ; details at point 5.9
 Fast Track, Awarded by: Department of Science and Technology, GoI ; details at point
5.9
 Openly competed for Fast Track (2003) and BOYSCAST (2005) of DST, GoI :
scientists of national research organizations including all the DRDO and National
Laboratories as well as the faculty members from the institutions of national importance
including IITs/ IISc. in the areas of science, technology, engineering, mathematics, and
medicine (further details in 5.7, 5.8, 5.9, and 5.10) and continued in spite of the bitter
professional and personal constraints, for decades. The consistent contribution to the
employment institution is clear and proven in spite of the awareness
 Certificate of National Merit, 1987 (GoI) : An option of the stipend could have
liberally, financially, and sufficiently funded throughout the education, irrespective of the
requirement for hostel admission
 Not even a minute’s time spent to attend as an observer, resource person, external faculty
or any other role external to the employment institution at any point of time or in any
form ; Details at point 7 for further clarity on the complete list of employers at each
time, throughout the career
 Initiated several sponsored research projects of NFA (DST, AICTE & UGC – GoI ;
details at point 5.9
 Assistance to the enrolled UG in making reliable professional contribution and
achievements ; suggestions to improve
 Guidance for the first Ph.D. in Natural Fiber Composite Materials at VRSEC, to the
senior most faculty member and Professor of Mechanical and Production Engineering
Department of the same Institution, from 2000 to 2003 (Registered in 1996 ; submitted
in 2003 ; awarded in 2004) ; the work became a focal point for Ph.D.s
 Pursued and completed the undergraduate and postgraduate education in regular
programmes of regular time at highly competent institutions with consistent learning
 Qualifications during the undergraduate education, in parallel, during AY 1988-1992
(page 8)
 High quality Post-doctoral research that helped the undergraduate programmes from 2009
 Visiting of several international universities around the globe, from 1992
 Award of nationally and professionally commensurate academic and industrial research,
from 1992, till date
 Editor, knowledge asset of VNRVJIET during AY 2009 - 2011
 Editor, R11 UG and PG regulation (curriculum)
 Preparation of autonomous curriculum for the first batch at VNRVJIET
45
 Able enrolled/ alma mater/ pedagogy from 1976, till date
 Relevant and commensurate high quality positions at MNCs and research positions in
academics from FY 1993
 Principal investigator, NFA (from 2003)
 Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE), Life Member
 Society for Biomaterials and Artificial Organs (SBAOI), Life Member
 ASTM, Member and Reviewer of the Standards
 ASME, Member and Reviewer of the Standards
 SME (Member, 2015-2016)
 BMES (Member, 2006-2007)
 Ambassador of Bentham Science Publishers - 2018
 Chairman, Board of Studies for ME and AME, R11 - UG and PG Regulation 2011
 Member, Board of Studies, R12, R13
 Effective mentoring to the participating members of faculty, with the target of resulting in
performance, at par with the international norms
 HoD, Mechanical and Automobile Engineering for the first autonomous batch at
VNRVJIET and a national conference
 First international journal publication in ‘technology and engineering’, as the primary
and corresponding author, at a self-finance institution in the undivided state, in a JCR
journal (not a conference proceedings journal or volume or issue or similar) – at the time
when not a self-finance autonomous institution existed at the mentioned geography and
technology and engineering ; this is the first journal paper published in fracture
mechanics, as the primary and corresponding author, at a self-finance institution in the
nation ; first in the nation to publish 12 international (includes the most reputed journal
from ASTM International, namely JTE-2017, online-07.2016) journal papers as the
primary and corresponding author in specialist journals, from a self-finance institution
(5.7 and 5.8)
 First SRP in ‘technology and engineering’, as the principal investigator/ fellow, at a self-
finance institution in the undivided state, from the NFA, DST (GoI) – at the time when
not a ‘self-finance autonomous institution’ existed at the mentioned geography and
technology and engineering ; the said SRP is the first in fracture mechanics, from a self-
finance institution, in the nation; first BOYSCAST fellowship (DST, GoI), at a self-
finance institution in the nation; Open competition with (i) the scientist designates in
science, technology, engineering, mathematics and medical domain of the research
establishments, though out the nation including DRDO and National Laboratories and (ii)
the regular faculty members of the institutions of national importance including IITs and
IISc. My contribution to the employment organization is clear and well proven
 Number of industry and academic projects (details at point 5.10) over the technical realm,
46
to help the human resources to absorb academics without burden, thus to revive ethics in
education
 Initiation of the practice to organize the full time short term courses/ faculty development
programmes (FDPs) of a minimum of 40 hours each, that does not seek any kind of
financial support from the funding agencies or the employer, in UGC/ MHRD/ AICTE
approved colleges – when there existed no curricular requirement ; organization of fifteen
short term training programs of 24-96 hour duration, eleven other technical training
programs, and several other professional training programs as the coordinator and
instructor, those conform to the aforesaid norm ; effective utilization of the same in
implementing the significant curricular-improvements ; details at points 2.2, 3.2, and 4.0
 Development and implementation of all time and high quality syllabus and curriculum of
the nation for the undergraduate mechanical and automobile engineering programmes of
2011-2015 as HoD, ME and AME during 12.2010 to 08.2011 and Chairman of the
department board of studies during 01.04.2011 to 31.05.2012 ; proved at the right time
and have been proving the essence as an academician in technology and engineering
primarily to facilitate imparting the deserving-essence through UG training; continuation
of the quality, quantity, and communication ; extension to various other programmes
(point 2.2)
 Promoted and have been promoting the enrolled UG as high quality authors
7. Appointments:
Typical high impact positions held:
March 1991 to August 1992 (Part Time): Project Trainee, NIIT – Regional Centre,
Hyderabad, India
January 1992 to May 1992 (Full time): Project Trainee, JNTU-Kukatpally
October 1992 to December 1992: Assistance for Dynamics, Mechanical Engineering, UT
January 1993 to September 1995: Research appointments at UT, CNC laboratory, Vehicle
Dynamics laboratory, Orthopaedic Biomaterials laboratory, Craniofacial Mechanics
laboratory – UT/ UTHSCSA
October 1995 to May 1998: Contract assignments, Project Engineer at AI, EII, CCI, SME,
AFB-R, etc.
June 1998 to July 2000: Asst. Manager, Design & Development group, TATA GROWTH
SHOP, TATA STEEL – India (Reference: Practice in 1998:- The starting position of
Officer Cadre is ‘Officer’; The next to last positions are ‘Senior Officer’, ‘Assistant
Manager’, ‘Deputy Manager’, and ‘Manager’ in the increasing order)
August 01 2000 to February 28 2006: Lecturer, Senior Lecturer, and Assistant Professor at
Velagapudi Ramakrishna Siddhartha Engineering College (VRSEC) – India
June 20 2003 to February 28 2006: Principal Investigator, Sponsored Research Project
(DST, GoI), VRSEC – India
March 01 2006: Principal Investigator, Sponsored Research Project, Department of Science
47
and Technology, GoI
March 01 2006: BOYSCAST Fellow, Department of Science and Technology, GoI
March 02 2006 to December 31 2008: Professor, Pragati Engineering College (PEC) –
India and BOYSCAST Fellow of DST, India (further details at point 5.9)
April 25 2006 to April 28 2007: BOYSCAST Fellow of DST and Visiting Research
Professor (on Lien from PEC ; further details at point 5.9)
01 January 2009: BOYSCAST Fellow of Department of Science and Technology, GoI
(further details at point 5.9)
January 02 2009, till the present date: Professor, Vallurupalli Nageswara Rao Vignana
Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology (VNRVJIET)
January 02 2009 to March 31 2016: BOYSCAST Fellow of DST, VNRVJIET (details at
point 5.9)
July 2009 to February 2016: Principal Investigator, Sponsored Research Project (NFA),
VNRVJIET ; Financial Sanction: 2 years from 07.2012 (31.03.2015, i.e., the end of the
financial year, subsequent to the completion of 2 calendar years) ; Technical Sanction: 3
years ; Date of the Initial submission: 31.07.2009 ; Date of the Next Submission: 02.2011
(further details at point 5.9)
March 2009 to May 2009: Member, Academic Council, VNRVJIET
March 2009 to March 31 2011: Member, Curriculum Preparation Committee, VNRVJIET
May 2009 to March 2011: Editor, Knowledge Asset, VNRVJIET
July 2009 to September 2011: Member, Research Committee, VNRVJIET
November 27 2010 to September 05 2011: Head of the Department, Mechanical and
Automobile Engineering, VNRVJIET
December 2010 to August 2011: Member, Disciplinary Committee, VNRVJIET
April 2011 to May 2012: Chairman, Board of Studies for R11, Mechanical and Automobile
Engineering Departments, VNRVJIET
June 2012 to May 2013: Member, Board of Studies for R12 and R13 of Mechanical
Engineering, VNRVJIET
Voluntary : avoiding the unethical practices within the domain of responsibility ; Donation
of Work ; Quest : Rural ambience; Outlook : Reaching the global norms with concern for
the ambience
8 Motto:
Work is Worship and Efficiency is Divine
Vision, Work, and Efficiency Secure Life
God and Nature Gave Everything to Know the Unknown
48
