SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/iqac/TSCOGN80327.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
SELF STUDY REPORT
FOR
rd
3 CYCLE OF ACCREDITATION
VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
VIGNANA JYOTHI NAGAR, PRAGATHI NAGAR, BACHUPALLY (M),
MEDCHAL-MALKAJGIRI (DIST), NIZAMPET (S.O),
500090
www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
Submitted To
NATIONAL ASSESSMENT AND ACCREDITATION COUNCIL
BANGALORE
July 2023
Page 1/157 17-04-2024 03:44:25
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.1 INTRODUCTION
Vallurupalli Nageswara Rao Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology (VNRVJIET), an
Autonomous institution sponsored by Vignana Jyothi Society, Hyderabad is established in the year 1995 in the
State of Telangana.
The institution is affiliated to Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad and was accorded the
status of Autonomous by UGC in 2012 and is extended for next 10 years from 2018 in view of its exemplary
performance and contribution to the domain of technical education. The institution is conferred with the honour
of “College with Potential for Excellence (CPE)" by UGC in August 2016.
The institute is accredited by NAAC with A Grade-CGPA of 3.21 in 2013 in the 1st cycle and with A++ Grade-
CGPA of 3.73 in the 2nd cycle in 2018. The institution is applying for the 3rd Cycle for re-accreditation.
To its credit, National Board of Accreditation (NBA) has accredited 8 UG Programmes: B.Tech-CE and B.Tech-
EEE for 6 years and B.Tech-CSE, B.Tech-ECE, B.Tech-EIE, B.Tech-IT, B.Tech-ME, and B.Tech-AE, PG
Programmes: M.Tech-STR, M.Tech-PE, M.Tech-SE, and M.Tech-AMS for 3 years.
MHRD has ranked VNRVJIET in the NIRF Engineering category, rank band of 101-150, 109, 127, 135, 113 in
the assessment period.
The departments of CE, EEE, ME, ECE & CSE has been recognised as Research Centres by AICTE and
JNTUH. The Institute has received 47 projects worth Rs.388.83Lakhs from funding agencies. The Institute has
been recognized as Scientific and Industrial Research Organization(SIROs) by DSIR, Government of India.
QS I. Gauge has rated the Institute with overall diamond rating. The NPTEL has rated the institution with AA
rating. The Institution is ISO 9001-2015 Certified. The Institute is rated Platinum by AICTE-CII survey.
ARIIA 2020 has placed VNRVJIET in rank band of 6 to 25. VNRVJIET has mentored peer institutions for
quality improvement and accreditation under AICTE- Margardarshan and UGC- Paramarsh schemes.
The institution with a vision of serving the society through value-based education has been making a mark in
the educational map of this region. The institute offers academic programmes with innovative curriculum,
advanced research in cutting-edge technologies and societal engagement through outreach activities. The
institute has 11 departments and offers 27 academic programmes both at UG and PG. In addition, the institute
offers Ph.D. Programmes through NDF-AICTE and JNTUH recognized Research Centres.
Vision
“To be a World Class University providing value-based education, conducting interdisciplinary research in
cutting edge technologies leading to sustainable socioeconomic development of the nation”.
Page 2/157 17-04-2024 03:44:25
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Mission
To produce technically competent and socially responsible engineers, managers and entrepreneurs who
will be future ready.
To involve students and faculty in innovative research projects linked with industry, academic and
research institutions in India and abroad.
To use modern pedagogy for improving the teaching learning process.
1.2 Strength, Weakness, Opportunity and Challenges(SWOC)
Institutional Strength
Proactive visionary management, leadership and administrative setup.
Committed, qualified and experienced faculty and Staff.
Autonomous Institution with a distinction of College with Potential for Excellence (CPE) by UGC.
NBA Accreditation for 8-UG and 4-PG Programmes notably CE & EEE programs are accredited for 6
Years indicating total adherence to Quality Education and Academic Excellence.
The Recognition of VNRVJIET as “AICTE Research Centre” under National Doctoral Fellowship
scheme and Five Departments – CE, ECE, CSE, EEE and ME as Research Centres by JNTUH
empowering the institution to make strides as a research-based teaching learning institute.
Offering minor degree programs in emerging technologies and track based courses in interdisciplinary
domains in line with NEP.
Teaching Learning process embraced with Hybrid Learning Model promotes personalized and self-
paced learning through VJ Differentiators - student centric methodologies viz. Course based projects,
WIT & WIL™, POGIL, VNR Lab Protocol™, Story Board, Open House, Show & Tell, Career Vision
Approach™ resulted in graduation of 91.63% students.
Centre for Educational Technology enhanced teaching skills, implementation of Novel Pedagogies &
ICT-Tools and has improved students learning to acquire 21st century skills in line with NEP-2020.
Robust research culture is evident from number of sponsored research projects, consultancy projects,
publications, and patents.
Projects-based learning yielded high package placements, internships, and social outreach activities.
VNRVJIET has 69 functional MoUs with premier industries and academic institutions fostering
collaborative research projects, internships, and placement opportunities.
Skill based training programs are organized to prepare competent graduates for Industry- 4.0 through
Mentoring Training and Placement (MTP) Cell and Competency Development Centre (CDC).
Well established infrastructure with ICT enabled classrooms, state-of-the-art laboratories, exclusive
centres for research, sports, library, IT students’ activity centre, and well-furnished hostels.
Students are encouraged to participate in extra-curricular and co-curricular activities.
Imparting value-based education for sustainability through design thinking and providing technical
solutions to societal problems.
Institutional Weakness
Commercialization of Intellectual Property Rights (IPR).
Attracting faculty and students from within and outside the country.
International partnerships and collaborations with foreign universities for student and faculty exchange.
Page 3/157 17-04-2024 03:44:25
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Institutional Opportunity
Starting industry- sponsored post graduate programmes and Ph.D. programmes.
Offering Executive Development Programmes for Industry.
Strengthening strategic alliance with international R&D labs to foster innovation, startups and to benefit
the Institution and broaden the scientific community.
Institution’s proximity to IITH, IIIT-H, BITS-Hyderabad, Central University (UoH), create an
opportunity for interdisciplinary collaborations, sharing of resources, knowledge exchange fostering an
impactful research ecosystem.
VNRVJIET has the potential to transform into a full-fledged university expanding academic offerings
and enhancing research capabilities.
Institutional Challenge
Enhancing industry academia joint products development
Increasing the number of faculty with Ph.D. from reputed institutions.
Twinning programmes with foreign universities.
Mobilization of resources for establishment of industry related research labs.
1.3 CRITERIA WISE SUMMARY
Curricular Aspects
The Institution has tailored its curriculum in tune with the needs of region, state, nation and global. Out of 6
B.Tech. programs introduced-Computer Science and Business System is offered in collaboration with Industry.
The other 5 B.Tech. programs in Computer Science and Engineering(Artificial Intelligence and Machine
Learning), Computer Science and Engineering(Data Science), Computer Science and Engineering (IOT),
Computer Science and Engineering(Cyber Security), Artificial Intelligence and Data Science are introduced in
line with NEP 2020 and current trends of the industry.
B.Tech. Minor degree programs in Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning, Internet of Things, Cyber
Security, Data Science, and Innovation & Entrepreneurship are introduced to provide academic flexibility to the
students and empower them with digital capabilities.
Curriculum for all 27 B.Tech. and M.Tech. programs was revised based on the local, regional, national, and
global development needs. Introduction of around 35% new courses across all the programs during the
assessment period demonstrate the efforts of the Institution towards enriching the curriculum based on the need
of industry and demands of the stakeholders.
Page 4/157 17-04-2024 03:44:25
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Choice Based Credit System curriculum has been implemented since 2015. Around 20% of the total credits are
earmarked for elective courses. Number of open electives are increased from 2 to 4 whereas professional
electives are increased from 4 to 6 for each B.Tech. program. Twelve interdisciplinary open elective tracks
based on emerging technologies are introduced. Academic flexibility is enhanced by increasing the number of
open and professional elective courses from 20 to 79 and 128 to 307 respectively during the assessment period.
Courses on Design Sensitization and Design Thinking are introduced across all programs. Course-based
Projects, Internship and Major Project are introduced to promote project-based learning and learning by doing.
It is noteworthy to mention that 90% of students undertook course-based projects, internship, mini-project and
major project during the academic year 2021-2022.
Credit transfer through NPTEL-SWAYAM for professional elective courses is implemented. Mandatory
courses like Environmental Science, Gender Sensitization, Indian Constitution etc. as well as courses on
Professional Ethics and Human Values, Research Methodology & IPR, are included in the curriculum.
100% of the courses in the curriculum are focused on employability/ entrepreneurship/skill development. A
total of 322 value-added courses were offered for imparting transferable and life skills to the students out of
which 86% student got benefitted. Revision of the curriculum has been implemented based on the analysis of
the stakeholder’s feedback.
Institute strives to update its outcome-based curriculum as well as introduce new academic programs through
structured design and review process to make industry ready engineers.
Teaching-learning and Evaluation
VNRVJIET, an autonomous institution affiliated to JNTUH is the most sought-after Engineering Institution in
the State. The Institute operates with the due approval of the statutory bodies: AICTE, UGC and Government
of Telangana.
VNRVJIET follows the admission process as per the guidelines of the statutory bodies: 70% of the seats are
filled through Convenor EAMCET and 30% of the seats are filled by the management as per the guidelines laid
down by the Government of Telangana. The institute strictly adheres to the Reservation policy set by the
government ensuring fair representation of different categories. On an average 93.9% of seats were filled in UG
and PG Programmes.
VNRVJIET adheres to UGC and AICTE guidelines maintaining an average Student Faculty Ratio of 18:1
during the assessment period.
Page 5/157 17-04-2024 03:44:25
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
The Institute prioritizes the needs of diverse learners offering personalized mentoring and support to foster
growth and development of slow learners, advanced learners, and differently abled students.
VNRVJIET continues to implement Active Teaching-Learning pedagogies which is well appreciated. The
strengthened Course based projects, ICT enabled hybrid mode teaching, and integration of course plans into the
LMS helped the teachers and students to address the challenges during and after the pandemic and has provided
a seamless learning experience.
VNRVJIET implements enriching learning experiences through VJ-Differentiators, hackathons, coding-
contests, industry interactions, and alumni involvement with emphasis on problem-solving skills through
projects and internships.
During Covid-19 the institution successfully measured the online conduct of classes with periodic monitoring
of the online classes and taking steps to reduce the gap between teaching and learning in the online hybrid
mode of education.
The Institute has strengthened the mentoring and counselling through automation for effective handling of
academic and career challenges.
The Institute has 43.4% faculty members holding Ph.D. qualification and an average experience of about 10
years. VNRVJIET prioritizes quality education and research-oriented teaching.
All examinations activities are automated through integrated Examination Management System(EMS) in line
with NEP-2020 reforms such as Digital Lockers and Academic Bank of Credits(ABC).
The COs, POs, and PSOs are well defined for all the programmes, duly validated and assessment of attainment
levels reflects the improved graduate outcomes. 91.63% graduated students from the Institute provide testimony
of the same.
The institution values student feedback and takes corrective measures to ensure continuous improvement in all
aspects of teaching and learning.
Research, Innovations and Extension
VNRVJIET has transformed from Teaching Learning Institute to a Research based Teaching Learning Institute
in the post accreditation period indicating a greater focus on integrating research into the teaching and learning
process.
The dedicated Research and Consultancy Centre(RCC), supported by a Research Advisory Board promotes and
facilitates research activities in the Institute.
VNRVJIET is recognized as a Research centre by AICTE and JNTUH-5 Departments are recognized as
research Centres. The Institute is recognized as Scientific and Industrial Research Organization(SIRO) by
DSIR, GoI. VNRVJIET offers Ph.D. programs in five disciplines through AICTE-NDF Scheme and JNTUH.
The institute has the state-of-the-art R&D Infrastructure with 8 exclusive R&D labs and 10 centres of research.
An amount of Rs.2.98 Crores has been invested on equipment to promote research in thrust areas during the
Page 6/157 17-04-2024 03:44:25
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
assessment period.
38 faculty have been recognized as research supervisors and 50 research scholars are enrolled for pursuing
research.
The faculty published 2657 research papers in Web of Science, SCI, Scopus indexed journals, conferences, and
book chapters. The h- index of the institute is 39 in Scopus and 27 in Web of science. VNRVJIET has 24
granted patents and 85 published patents.
The faculty at VNRVJIET have been granted 47 projects with a total worth of Rs. 388.83 Lakhs. Additionally,
the faculty has generated Rs. 144.13 Lakhs through consultancy services.
The Institute granted seed fund of Rs. 128.51 Lakhs for conducting initial research which led to major project
proposals.
IIC, IIIC, ED Cell, RCC and VJ Hub conducted 125 events to encourage students towards research, innovation,
incubation, invention, and entrepreneurship. Potential start-ups are identified through Big-Idea Competition and
are incubated in VJ-Hub. Four Startups have been graduated and 10 Startups are ongoing in VJ-Hub. Open
House, the annual Project-Expo showcases the innovative ideas, demonstrations, and projects.
The Institution in collaboration with HEI’s, Industries and Research Organizations conducted 323 activities and
has 69 functional MOUs mapping with requirements of the industry and academia.
Through NSS, VNRSF and other student professional bodies students and faculty actively participate in
extension and outreach activities. A total of 183 such programmes are conducted and an average of 84% of
students participate in all these activities. VNRVJIET received 68 awards and recognitions for all these
activities. More than 25,000 people are benefitted through these activities.
Infrastructure and Learning Resources
VNRVJIET has a spacious campus of 26.85 Acres, with a built-up area of 76,028 sq.m. which provides a
conducive environment for learning, research, and other activities on the campus and is upgraded as per the
statutory requirements. VNRVJIET has 113 ICT-enabled classrooms & seminar halls and 128 well-equipped
laboratories.
The Institute maintains a student computer ratio of 2:1 and has a fast internet connection with a bandwidth of
2350 Mbps. The campus is Wi-Fi enabled with 155 access points and the Sonic WALL 9200 firewall provides
robust cyber security. The Campus Networks Control Centre maintains IT infrastructure, CC cameras,
computers in the Institute and hostel.
An amount of Rs.9405.56 Lakhs is spent on infrastructure augmentation during the assessment period. A total
of 24 classrooms and 8 laboratories are developed during the assessment period. A total of 20886 Sq.mts built-
up area is added to the existing infrastructure. The expenditure on maintenance of physical and academic
support facilities during the assessment period is Rs.10829.29 Lakhs excluding salaries.
VNRVJIET has an automated Library & Information Resource Centre with Integrated Library Management
System(ILMS), - LIBSYS, and KOHA. An amount of Rs.16.00 Lakhs is spent on automation of the library by
Page 7/157 17-04-2024 03:44:25
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
installing RFID scanners. An amount of Rs.218.67 Lakhs is spent for procurement of books and journals during
the assessment period. Library has a collection of rare books, 82931 volumes and 17585 titles. The library is a
member of DELNET, N-LIST to enable e-learning. Remote access is provided through KNIMBUS and M-
Library Mobile App. Digital Library and computer labs provide remote access to learning resources 24/7.
Students and faculty utilize the library facilities both in offline and online mode.
E-content development facilities are available in the Institute to enhance the hybrid teaching learning
methodologies. Video lectures are recorded using the Media Centre and Lecturer Capturing System. Mixing
equipment and open-source software for editing the lectures are available. Audio Visual centre is available in
the Institute help the teachers to enhance the learning experience of the students. Standard Operating
Procedures (SOP) for the maintenance of physical, academic and support facilities are well defined and
circulated among the faculty and staff. During Covid 19, SOP’s for “VJ-MEDISCINE” are developed for
hygiene and health, and the same practices are shared with the peer institutions.
Student Support and Progression
VNRVJIET has student centred policies and approaches. This approach helps students to improve skills,
research competency, lifelong learning, leadership abilities, and critical thinking.
The 17 professional chapters and 16 student clubs in the Institute offers a platform for practical application of
knowledge and skills, enhancing students' professional growth through hands-on experiences.
Coding clubs – Turing Hut, Krithomedh, VJ Hackslash, and other clubs Art of Living club, IoT club,
Journalism club, Electoral club, Quality Standards Club, IEEE Student branch chapters-SPS, PES, Nano
Science, Microwave, CS, and ACM are introduced in the last 5 years.
Around 264 activities on life skills, language and communication skills, soft skills, and technological
developments were conducted.
55% of students receive government and institute-sponsored scholarships. An average of 77% of students have
been placed in the leading public and private organizations, indicating the effectiveness of the Institute’s career
guidance provided by Mentoring Training and Placements(MTP), Competency Development Centre(CDC).
During this period, the Institute recorded highest pay packages and median salaries in Telangana. MTP
employed video conferencing tools, to assist students to prepare video resumes during and after pandamic. The
resilience and adaptability of the students resulted in securing good number of job offers.
Page 8/157 17-04-2024 03:44:25
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
The students have opted for higher education abroad by qualifying national and international competitive
exams. 85% of students benefitted through the guidance and career counselling of MTP.
To address grievances, the Institute has implemented a robust e-governance system that effectively handles the
online grievance mechanisms within a stipulated time. The institution ensures speedy disposal of grievances.
Awareness about this mechanism is promoted through posters and the institute's website, ensuring transparency
and accountability.
The institute has constituted an Institute Complaint Committee (ICC) in accordance with the guidelines set by
UGC.
The students achieved remarkable success in sports and cultural activities, winning a total of 251 awards at
national and international levels. Additionally, a total of 255 sports, cultural activities, and competitions were
organized over the last five years.
The strong connection between the Institution and its alumni is evident, with 15,987 alumni actively staying
connected. Alumni chapters in USA, Australia, Bangalore & Chennai provides a forum for interaction among
the alumni. Alumni raised Rs. 31.07 Lakhs to support various activities along with guidance, placement
training, mentoring, and knowledge-sharing sessions.
Governance, Leadership and Management
VNRVJIET’s organizational structure encompasses decentralized decision making and participatory
governance. The roles and responsibilities of statutory and non-statutory bodies are well defined which aids in
policy implementation. The institution has an approved strategic plan with clearly stated short-term and long-
term goals.
The Strategic plan of the Institution in line with the institute vision, mission and quality policy drives the
academic, research, administrative and other activities. The internal and external audits ensure the efficacy of
the practices as per the institute quality policy.
VNRVJIET has implemented e-governance in domains of administration, finance & accounts, student
admission & support and examinations.
The Institute has spent an amount of Rs.11.33Crores towards welfare measures for teaching and non-teaching
staff, avenues for career progression. VNRVJIET takes all the steps to ensure the welfare of the employees.
Page 9/157 17-04-2024 03:44:25
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
The Faculty Professional Growth Plan (FPGP) provides, faculty with appropriate planning for Professional
development. In addition, the FPGP provides the institute to understand the training requirements of the faculty.
The Institute has spent Rs. 65.70 lakhs towards training of the employees.
The Finance Committee plans, mobilizes, and explores the financial resources required for the execution of
Institute activities. The internal and external financial audits are conducted regularly.
Students, Faculty, Alumni, Industry Experts, and Staff involve in decision-making processes at various levels
fostering a collaborative and inclusive environment. The Institute recognises the value of stakeholder’s
perspective, ideas, and expertise.
The Institute shares information pertaining to policies, processes and decisions in the institute website fostering
transparency, accountability and promoting a culture of open communication.
IQAC at VNRVJIET works with a moto of catalysing the quality initiatives and enhancement of these
initiatives. Through integrated regular quality measurement tools and techniques, sustenance and assurance of
internal systems and processes are taken care. A total of 141 professional development and administrative
programs are conducted for skill enhancement. On an average 72% of the faculty has undergone online/ face to
face FDPs. An amount of Rs.66.16 lakhs is spent for sponsoring faculty for advanced training and upskilling.
Along with the other objectives and goals, IQAC has major focus on nurturing academic environment through
sustenance and enhancement of teaching-learning process. Institution has well developed teaching-learning
methodologies in place and are practiced persistently. Regular monitoring is performed stringently through,
Student feedback system, Class Review Committee, Student Satisfaction Survey, Academic and Administrative
audits. Regular quarterly meetings are conducted and IQAC committee keeps concrete efforts for
internalization and institutionalization.
Institutional Values and Best Practices
VNRVJIET has an inclusive environment that values gender equity and does not discriminate based on gender,
caste, language, cultural and socioeconomic disparities. he Institute has 37.3 % girl students and 43% women
faculty and more than 50% of administrative positions are held by women. Gender just environment prevails in
the institution
VNRVJIET prioritises gender equity with value added programs and courses focused on Gender Sensitization,
Human values, and Professional Ethics in the curriculum.
The Institute has solar power plants with installed capacity of 765kWp connected to the grid which results in
50% of reduction in electricity power consumption. In addition, 50% of annual lighting power is saved through
the replacement with LED bulbs. These initiatives testify VNRVJIET’s commitment to inclusivity and
sustainability.
Page 10/157 17-04-2024 03:44:25
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
To create an inclusive physical environment the Institute has developed infrastructure to cater the needs of all
genders and Divyangjan. The surveillance systems monitor and provides safety and security to stakeholders.
Measures are taken to dispose and recycle various wastes generated in the campus. The institute has MoU for
solid waste disposal, recycling of paper and PET bottles. Treated liquid waste from 150KLD capacity STP is
utilized for gardening. The Institute has rainwater harvesting pits for ground water recharge. The campus is
plastic free and Institutional communication is done through e-media fostering green initiatives. The Institute
maintains a significant greenbelt with a canopy of trees and plants for an eco-friendly and bio diversified
campus. The Institute is geared up to be carbon free campus by introducing electric vehicles and creating
awareness to the stakeholders.
VNRVJIET creates awareness among students and staff on constitutional commitments. The Institute
undertook more than 200 initiatives towards societal engagement promoting universal values. Students
participated in national festivals and more than 100 events commemorating the lives of great Indian
personalities. Transparency is a priority at VNRVJIET maintaining open and accountable practices.
VNRVJIET promotes best practices like “Industry Institute Partnership (IIP), to bridge the gap between
Industry and Academia” and “Design thinking and applications of multi-disciplinary knowledge to address
global challenges” through Centre for Presencing and Design Thinking” towards a self-reliant India
(Aatmanirbhar Bharat).
Institutional Distinctiveness is to prioritise “Sustainable Development through its Emphasis on Quality
Education”: ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for
all. The practice of Education Process Re-engineering - VJ Spectral Pyramid™ resulted notable outcomes for
the Institute and in specific to faculty and students.
Page 11/157 17-04-2024 03:44:25
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
2. PROFILE
2.1 BASIC INFORMATION
Name and Address of the College
Name VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO
VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY
Address Vignana Jyothi Nagar, Pragathi Nagar, Bachupally
(M), Medchal-Malkajgiri (Dist), Nizampet (S.O),
City Hyderabad
State Telangana
Pin 500090
Website www.vnrvjiet.ac.in
Contacts for Communication
Designation Name Telephone with Mobile Fax Email
STD Code
Principal C. D. Naidu 040-23041517 -
IQAC / CIQA Y. Bhanusree 040-23042956 9849448635 040-2304276 iqac@vnrvjiet.in
coordinator 1
Status of the Institution
Institution Status Private and Self Financing
Type of Institution
By Gender Co-education
By Shift Regular
Recognized Minority institution
If it is a recognized minroity institution No
Establishment Details
Date of Establishment, Prior to the Grant of 18-05-1995
Page 12/157 17-04-2024 03:44:25
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
'Autonomy'
Date of grant of 'Autonomy' to the College by UGC 17-08-2012
University to which the college is affiliated
State University name Document
Telangana Jawaharlal Nehru Technological View Document
University
Telangana Jawaharlal Nehru Technological View Document
University
Details of UGC recognition
Under Section Date View Document
2f of UGC 21-05-2010 View Document
12B of UGC 05-11-2012 View Document
Details of recognition/approval by stationary/regulatory bodies like
AICTE,NCTE,MCI,DCI,PCI,RCI etc(other than UGC)
Statutory Recognition/Appr Day,Month and Validity in Remarks
Regulatory oval details Instit year(dd-mm- months
Authority ution/Department yyyy)
programme
AICTE View Document 03-07-2022 12 Every year AICTE
Issues Extension
of Approval EOA
AICTE View Document 03-07-2022 12 Every year AICTE
Issues Extension
of Approval EOA
AICTE View Document 03-07-2022 12 Every year AICTE
Issues Extension
of Approval EOA
AICTE View Document 03-07-2022 12 Every year AICTE
Issues Extension
of Approval EOA
AICTE View Document 03-07-2022 12 Every year AICTE
Issues Extension
of Approval EOA
Page 13/157 17-04-2024 03:44:26
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Recognitions
Is the College recognized by UGC as a College with Yes
Potential for Excellence(CPE)?
If yes, date of recognition? 23-08-2016
Is the College recognized for its performance by any Yes
other governmental agency?
If yes, name of the agency National Board of Accreditation NIRF ARIIA
Date of recognition 09-02-2023
Location and Area of Campus
Campus Type Address Location* Campus Area in Built up Area in
Acres sq.mts.
Main campus Vignana Jyothi Nagar, Urban 26.85 76028
area Pragathi Nagar, Bachupally
(M), Medchal-Malkajgiri
(Dist), Nizampet (S.O),
2.2 ACADEMIC INFORMATION
Details of Programmes Offered by the College (Give Data for Current Academic year)
Programme Name of Pro Duration in Entry Medium of Sanctioned No.of
Level gramme/Co Months Qualificatio Instruction Strength Students
urse n Admitted
UG BTech,Civil 48 Intermediate English 128 106
Engineering, or Equivalent
Civil
Engineering
UG BTech,Electr 48 Intermediate English 129 128
ical And or Equivalent
Electronics E
ngineering,El
ectrical and
Electronics
Engineering
UG BTech,Mech 48 Intermediate English 128 105
anical Engine or Equivalent
Page 14/157 17-04-2024 03:44:26
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
ering,Mecha
nical
Engineering
UG BTech,Electr 48 Intermediate English 256 254
onics And Co or Equivalent
mmunication
Engineering,
Electronics
and Commun
ication
Engineering
UG BTech,Comp 48 Intermediate English 64 64
uter Science or Equivalent
And Enginee
ring,Comput
er Science
and Business
System
UG BTech,Comp 48 Intermediate English 257 254
uter Science or Equivalent
And Enginee
ring,Comput
er Science
and
Engineering
UG BTech,Electr 48 Intermediate English 128 128
onics And In or Equivalent
strumentation
Engineering,
Electronics
and Instrume
ntation
Engineering
UG BTech,Infor 48 Intermediate English 193 193
mation Tech or Equivalent
nology,Infor
mation
Technology
UG BTech,Auto 48 Intermediate English 64 44
mobile Engin or Equivalent
eering,Auto
mobile
Engineering
Page 15/157 17-04-2024 03:44:26
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
UG BTech,Comp 48 Intermediate English 65 64
uter Science or Equivalent
And
Engineering
Ds Cs Aids,C
omputer
Science and
Engineering
Cyber
Security
UG BTech,Comp 48 Intermediate English 64 63
uter Science or Equivalent
And
Engineering
Ds Cs
Aids,Artifici
al
Intelligence
and Data
Science
UG BTech,Comp 48 Intermediate English 128 128
uter Science or Equivalent
And
Engineering
Ds Cs Aids,C
omputer
Science and
Engineering
Data Science
UG BTech,Comp 48 Intermediate English 65 65
uter Science or Equivalent
And
Engineering
Aiml
Iot,Computer
Science and
Engineering
IOT
UG BTech,Comp 48 Intermediate English 193 193
uter Science or Equivalent
And
Engineering
Aiml
Iot,Computer
Science and
Page 16/157 17-04-2024 03:44:26
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Engineering
Artificial
Intelligence
and Machine
Learning
PG Mtech,Civil 24 B.Tech or English 18 16
Engineering, B.E or
Structural Equivalent
Engineering
PG Mtech,Civil 24 B.Tech or English 18 3
Engineering, B.E or
Geotechnical Equivalent
Engineering
PG Mtech,Civil 24 B.Tech or English 18 6
Engineering, B.E or
Highway Equivalent
Engineering
PG Mtech,Electri 24 B.Tech or English 18 1
cal And B.E or
Electronics E Equivalent
ngineering,P
ower
Electronics
PG Mtech,Electri 24 B.Tech or English 12 5
cal And B.E or
Electronics E Equivalent
ngineering,P
ower
Systems
PG Mtech,Mech 24 B.Tech or English 12 1
anical Engine B.E or
ering,CAD Equivalent
CAM
PG Mtech,Mech 24 B.Tech or English 18 0
anical Engine B.E or
ering,Advanc Equivalent
ed Manufact
uring
Systems
PG Mtech,Electr 24 B.Tech or English 18 5
onics And Co B.E or
mmunication Equivalent
Engineering,
Page 17/157 17-04-2024 03:44:26
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
VLSI System
Design
PG Mtech,Electr 24 B.Tech or English 18 5
onics And Co B.E or
mmunication Equivalent
Engineering,
Embedded
Systems
PG Mtech,Comp 24 B.Tech or English 12 0
uter Science B.E or
And Enginee Equivalent
ring,Software
Engineering
PG Mtech,Comp 24 B.Tech or English 18 5
uter Science B.E or
And Enginee Equivalent
ring,Comput
er Science
and
Engineering
PG Mtech,Electr 24 B.Tech or English 12 1
onics And In B.E or
strumentation Equivalent
Engineering,
Electronics
and Instrume
ntation
Engineering
PG Mtech,Infor 24 B.Tech or English 12 5
mation Tech B.E or
nology,Comp Equivalent
uter
Networks
and
Information
Security
Doctoral PhD or 36 M.Tech or English 0 0
(Ph.D) DPhil,Civil E M.E or
ngineering,Ci Equivalent
vil
Engineering
Doctoral PhD or DPhil 36 M.Tech or English 0 0
(Ph.D) ,Electrical M.E or
Page 18/157 17-04-2024 03:44:26
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
And Equivalent
Electronics E
ngineering,El
ectrical and
Electronics
Engineering
Doctoral PhD or DPhil 36 M.Tech or English 1 1
(Ph.D) ,Mechanical M.E or
Engineering, Equivalent
Mechanical
Engineering
Doctoral PhD or DPhil 36 M.Tech or English 1 1
(Ph.D) ,Electronics M.E or
And Commu Equivalent
nication Engi
neering,Elect
ronics and C
ommunicatio
n
Engineering
Doctoral PhD or DPhil 36 M.Tech or English 2 2
(Ph.D) ,Computer M.E or
Science And Equivalent
Engineering,
Computer
Science and
Engineering
Position Details of Faculty & Staff in the College
Page 19/157 17-04-2024 03:44:26
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Teaching Faculty
Professor Associate Professor Assistant Professor
Male Female Others Total Male Female Others Total Male Female Others Total
Sanctioned by the 0 0 0
UGC /University
State Government
Recruited 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Yet to Recruit 0 0 0
Sanctioned by the 46 51 383
Management/Soci
ety or Other
Authorized
Bodies
Recruited 32 14 0 46 45 6 0 51 119 264 0 383
Yet to Recruit 0 0 0
Non-Teaching Staff
Male Female Others Total
Sanctioned by the UGC 0
/University State
Government
Recruited 0 0 0 0
Yet to Recruit 0
Sanctioned by the 81
Management/Society or
Other Authorized
Bodies
Recruited 56 25 0 81
Yet to Recruit 0
Page 20/157 17-04-2024 03:44:26
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Technical Staff
Male Female Others Total
Sanctioned by the UGC 0
/University State
Government
Recruited 0 0 0 0
Yet to Recruit 0
Sanctioned by the 107
Management/Society or
Other Authorized
Bodies
Recruited 82 25 0 107
Yet to Recruit 0
Qualification Details of the Teaching Staff
Permanent Teachers
Highest Professor Associate Professor Assistant Professor
Qualificatio
n
Male Female Others Male Female Others Male Female Others Total
D.sc/D.Litt/ 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
LLD/DM/M
CH
Ph.D. 32 14 0 33 12 0 69 50 0 210
M.Phil. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PG 0 0 0 5 1 0 133 131 0 270
UG 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Page 21/157 17-04-2024 03:44:26
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Temporary Teachers
Highest Professor Associate Professor Assistant Professor
Qualificatio
n
Male Female Others Male Female Others Male Female Others Total
D.sc/D.Litt/ 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
LLD/DM/M
CH
Ph.D. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
M.Phil. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PG 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
UG 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Part Time Teachers
Highest Professor Associate Professor Assistant Professor
Qualificatio
n
Male Female Others Male Female Others Male Female Others Total
D.sc/D.Litt/ 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
LLD/DM/M
CH
Ph.D. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
M.Phil. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PG 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
UG 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Details of Visting/Guest Faculties
Number of Visiting/Guest Faculty Male Female Others Total
engaged with the college?
7 0 0 7
Provide the Following Details of Students Enrolled in the College During the Current Academic Year
Page 22/157 17-04-2024 03:44:26
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Programme From the State From Other NRI Students Foreign Total
Where College States of India Students
is Located
UG Male 3986 262 7 0 4255
Female 2373 167 6 0 2546
Others 0 0 0 0 0
PG Male 65 11 0 0 76
Female 65 2 0 0 67
Others 0 0 0 0 0
Doctoral (Ph.D) Male 4 0 0 0 4
Female 5 3 0 0 8
Others 0 0 0 0 0
Page 23/157 17-04-2024 03:44:26
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Provide the Following Details of Students admitted to the College During the last four Academic
Years
Category Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4
SC Male 142 133 100 92
Female 84 68 53 60
Others 0 0 0 0
ST Male 73 45 42 31
Female 29 27 17 19
Others 0 0 0 0
OBC Male 554 423 378 349
Female 292 202 202 182
Others 0 0 0 0
General Male 424 462 319 378
Female 341 275 260 257
Others 0 0 0 0
Others Male 0 0 0 0
Female 0 0 0 0
Others 0 0 0 0
Total 1939 1635 1371 1368
2.3 EVALUATIVE REPORT OF THE DEPARTMENTS
Page 24/157 17-04-2024 03:44:26
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Department Name Upload Report
Automobile Engineering View Document
Civil Engineering View Document
Computer Science And Engineering View Document
Computer Science And Engineering Aiml Iot View Document
Computer Science And Engineering Ds Cs Aids View Document
Electrical And Electronics Engineering View Document
Electronics And Communication Engineering View Document
Electronics And Instrumentation Engineering View Document
Information Technology View Document
Mechanical Engineering View Document
Institutional preparedness for NEP
1. Multidisciplinary/interdisciplinary: Vision of the Institute is to be a World Class
University providing value-based education,
conducting interdisciplinary research in cutting edge
technologies leading to sustainable socio-economic
development of the nation. Institute is at the forefront
to provide an environment for multidisciplinary and
holistic development. Institute offers variety of
interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary courses to its
students of various programmes. Institute is
encouraging integration of humanities and science
with STEM. This is evident from the offering of
Bachelor of Business Administration in Data
Analytics as second degree to B.Tech. students.
Institute plans to offer more such courses in future.
Institute offers flexible curriculum to its students that
contain varied courses providing holistic and multi-
disciplinary education. All the courses offered are
credit-based except for the mandatory courses.
Students are provided the option of choosing elective
courses (both professional and open) as per their
preferences through an online system. Institute also
offers minor degree courses in emerging technologies
like artificial intelligence and machine learning, data
science, internet of things and cyber security. Minor
degree on entrepreneurship is also offered to the
students to encourage entrepreneurial capabilities
Page 25/157 17-04-2024 03:44:26
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
among them. Institute has also offered the provision
to pursue second degree by students i.e., BBA in
Data Analytics along with B.Tech. degree. Value-
based (credit) courses on Professional Ethics and
Human Values and Personality Development and
Public Speaking are offered. Mandatory courses on
Environmental Science, Gender Sensitization,
Ancient Wisdom, Happiness and Wellness are also
offered. Students are encouraged to participate in
events and project competitions conducted by various
clubs and societies related to National Service
Scheme (NSS) for their overall development. In line
with NEP directives, VNRVJIET has introduced
multiple entry and exit provision to the students
under R22 academic regulations from the academic
year 2022-2023. Some of the examples are given
below: Multiple Entry Option: A student is permitted
to rejoin B.Tech. degree programme by taking one
year break while pursuing four-year B.Tech. regular
degree programme i.e., either after completion of
B.Tech. IV semester (B.Tech. II year II semester) or
B.Tech. VI semester (B.Tech. III year II semester).
Exit Option: A student is allowed to exit four-year
B.Tech. regular degree program at the end of II year.
Student shall be awarded two-year B.Tech. Diploma
Certificate in the concerned branch of engineering
allotted at the time of admission, upon fulfilling the
following conditions: ? completes all the minimum
academic requirements upto B.Tech. IV semester
(B.Tech. II year II semester) and ? earns all the 80
credits upto B.Tech. IV semester (B.Tech. II year II
semester) within 4 years from the date of admission
in B.Tech. I year. Institute has an exclusive Research
and Consultancy Centre wherein faculty and
researchers from different disciplines work together
on various multi-disciplinary and inter-disciplinary
projects to achieve solutions to societal problems. •
Students of a specific discipline are allowed to
choose elective courses of their choice from other
disciplines (open elective) through an online system •
Minor degree courses in emerging technologies being
pursued by students of other disciplines • Credit
Transfer through SWAYAM-NPTEL
2. Academic bank of credits (ABC): Academic Bank of Credits (ABC) initiative under
NEP 2020 facilitates the academic mobility of
students (multiple entry and exit) with the freedom to
study across the Higher Education Institutions in the
Page 26/157 17-04-2024 03:44:26
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
country. Academic mobility is gained through credit
transfer mechanism from one programme to another
thereby leading to attain a Degree/Diploma/PG-
diploma etc. Academic credits earned by the students
are stored digitally in ABC. Students get the option
of pursuing courses of their interest without
hindrance. At VNRVJIET, students are pursuing
courses through various platforms like NPTEL,
SWAYAM, Coursera etc. However, the Institute is
yet to complete the registration. Institute is in the
process of registering under the ABC and wants its
students to be benefitted with ABC implementation.
Institute has already implemented credit transfer
through NPTEL-SWAYAM for its B.Tech. students.
Institute has MoU with National Institute of
Technology Warangal and other foreign universities
for mutual collaboration. Institute plans to have
mutual collaborations with national and foreign
institutions for offering joint degrees, twinning
programmes and credit transfer facility. Institute
follows a structured process for designing the
curricula of various programmes. Faculty from a
domain is entrusted with the responsibility of framing
the curriculum. Course coordinator designs the
curriculum of a course based on the inputs received
from various stakeholders like students, peers,
parents, alumni, industry experts, professional
societies, regulatory bodies etc. Course coordinators
are encouraged to refer to the curricula of higher
educational institutes/reputed universities. They are
also encouraged to participate in various workshops
and FDPs related to curriculum revision. Course
coordinator revises the course curriculum based on
the feedback from Program Assessment Committee
and Department Academic Committee before being
approved by the Board of Studies and subsequently
by the Academic Council. Members of the Boards of
Studies and Academic Council guides in framing the
assessment and evaluation procedures to be followed.
In view of the implementation of curriculum based
on NEP 2020, faculty have attended many programs
conducted by AICTE New Delhi, JNTU Hyderabad
etc. Offering of NPTEL-SWAYAM courses as an
option to professional elective courses with credit
transfer facility.
3. Skill development: Institute understands the role of life skills and
personality development in a student’s career
Page 27/157 17-04-2024 03:44:26
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
growth. Acquiring these skills would help them take
up their future roles confidently. Few courses from
the curriculum like Advanced English Language and
Communication Skills Lab, Personality Development
and Public Speaking showcase the Institute’s effort
in imparting soft skills to the students. Apart from
this, various training programmes are organized
regularly for the benefit of students so that soft skills
as well as technical and professional skills among the
students are developed. Students are also encouraged
to take up two mandatory certificate courses of their
choice for enhancing their skills are developed
through certificate courses, methodology and core
subjects. Institute’s Competency Development
Centre (CDC) and Mentoring Training and
Placement Cell organize training programmes on soft
skills, personality development, public speaking, etc.
Institute is always focused on providing value-based
education to its students so that they understand and
inculcate the humanistic, ethical, constitutional
values. Some of the courses in the curriculum are •
Professional Ethics and Human Values • Ancient
Wisdom • Happiness and Wellness • Gender
Sensitization • Environmental Science • Indian
Constitution • Students are encouraged to take up
two mandatory certificate courses of their choice
before they graduate for enhancing their skills
through certificate courses, core and elective subjects
and projects. • Industry personnel are invited
regularly for conducting various training programmes
that enhance the skills of the students to make them
industry ready. • In view of the implementation of
NEP 2020, it is planned to have more courses that
impart skills to the students. • Students are
encouraged to take up online certification courses. •
Establishment of a Competency Development Centre
(CDC) responsible for organizing the skill
development programmes • Under the R22 academic
regulations, one credit skill development courses
have been introduced in B.Tech. and M.Tech.
programmes. • Elective course on Entrepreneurship
is offered in all the B.Tech. programmes. • Training
programmes on Soft skills are conducted every year.
4. Appropriate integration of Indian Knowledge India’s strong foundation in science and technology
system (teaching in Indian Language, culture, using has been showcased to the world through Vedic
online course): literature available in the ancient Vedas. Institute
believes in the importance of ancient Indian
Page 28/157 17-04-2024 03:44:26
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
knowledge systems, Indian languages, culture etc. It
is essential to make the current generation aware of
these. Activities related to literature, languages and
art are conducted regularly. Efforts are made to
promote and integrate the same into the curriculum of
B.Tech. and M.Tech. programmes. Institute plans to
include the following in B.Tech. and M.Tech.
curricula: • Offline course on Indian Knowledge
Systems as a mandatory course • Offline course on
Indian Knowledge Systems under open-elective
category • Online course on Indian Knowledge
Systems • Offline and online courses on different
Indian languages like Telugu, Kannada, Tamil,
Malyalam, Hindi, Marathi etc. To substantiate this,
Institute in its latest academic curriculum under R22
academic regulations has included a mandatory
course on Ancient Wisdom emphasizing the
importance and application of Indian traditional
knowledge in technologies existing then and its
current perspectives. Institute has setup a Centre for
Educational Technology with an aim to conceptualize
the learning and teaching with application of modern
educational teaching techniques. It is planned to
entrust the centre to conduct capacity building
workshops and training programs for faculty for
delivery of curriculum bilingually. Centre would be
equipped with language translation softwares for
better learning. Even though the medium of
instruction for all the B.Tech. and M.Tech.
programmes offered at VNRVJIET is English, yet the
course faculty are given freedom to teach their
courses in Telugu language by considering factors
like the medium of instruction of students, ease of
better understanding of a concept in local language
etc. Institute plans to offer Indian classical languages
and regional languages under open-elective as part of
the implementation of National Education Policy.
Institute in its latest academic curriculum under R22
academic regulations has included a mandatory
course on ‘Ancient Wisdom’ emphasizing the
importance of Indian traditional knowledge in ancient
technologies and its current perspectives. Apart from
this, Institute has Arts club which conducts
programmes on Indian arts regularly and also
publishes Vignana Vahini magazine in which the
students showcase their artistic abilities through
drawings, poetry in Telugu/Hindi/English languages.
Inclusion of a mandatory course on Ancient Wisdom
Page 29/157 17-04-2024 03:44:26
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
in B.Tech. and M.Tech. curricula.
5. Focus on Outcome based education (OBE): Institute is diligently practicing Outcome based
Education (OBE) framework focusing on imparting
engineering knowledge, problem solving abilities,
enhancing technical skills, research abilities and
employability potential, lifelong learning,
sensitization to environment and society etc.
Curriculum has been revised four times from
2015-2016 onwards namely under R15, R18, R19
and R22 academic regulations. OBE based
curriculum of a program contains the following: •
Vision and mission of Institute, • Vision and mission
of the department • Program Educational Objectives
(PEO) • Program Outcomes (PO) • Program Specific
Outcomes (PSO) A typical course curriculum
contains the following: • Course title with course
code • Course credit hour structure • Course pre-
requisites • Course objectives • Course outcomes
(CO) • Mapping of course outcomes with program
outcomes and program specific outcomes • Course
content/syllabus • Reading Materials – Textbooks,
References, Online resources To assess student
learning outcomes and attainment levels of Course
outcomes and program outcomes under OBE, various
pedagogical initiatives and assessment strategies are
implemented which include application based
teaching strategies for critical thinking, skill based
learning, learning by doing, project based learning,
inquiry based learning, experiential learning, focused
group discussions, case studies, use of ICT etc. Skill
development as envisaged by the Government of
India under NEP is supported by certificate courses.
Self-learning is promoted through MOOCs courses.
Student learning outcomes i.e., course outcomes are
assessed as direct and indirect. Direct assessment
through proctored exams is computed for internal as
well as semester end assessment. Indirect assessment
is computed based on surveys. Attainment levels
obtained indicate the areas for improvement. The
attainment clearly indicated required improvement in
areas of research. Few of the differentiators in
practice at Institute are listed below. • WIT & WIL •
VNR Lab Protocol • Course Projects • Show & Tell
• Open House Online tools used for assessment: •
Eduprime Learning Management System • Google
Forms • Mentimeter • Implemented Outcome based
education framework from 2015 onwards • Mapping
Page 30/157 17-04-2024 03:44:26
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
of course outcomes and program outcomes on a
scientific basis • Use of active teaching-learning
methodologies like WIT and WIL, VNR Lab
Protocol, Show and Tell, Storyboard etc. for better
learning outcomes • Use of Rubrics based
assessments in courses like practical, project,
internship etc. • In-house campus automation
software - ‘Eduprime-Learning Management
System’ used for mapping and attainment of Course
Outcomes and Program Outcomes • MOOCs to
promote lifelong and self-regulated learning •
Mandatory certificate courses for enhancing the skills
• Value based education through curricular and co-
curricular activities • Extensive field activities like
Industrial visits etc.
6. Distance education/online education: At present, Institute does not offer vocational
courses. However, it is planned to offer such courses
through ODL mode in the near future. COVID-19
pandemic forced the Institute to impart education
online. Now post-pandemic, Institute has geared up
for Blended learning approach giving equal emphasis
on conducting offline and online classes. During the
academic year 2021-2022, both online as well as on-
campus classes were held for proper and smooth
conducting of academic course work efficiently.
Online classes are being conducted whenever needed
along with on-campus (offline) classes. Timetables
for both online and on-campus classes are scheduled.
Video conferencing tools like Google
Meet/Classroom, Microsoft Teams etc. are used for
delivery of course content online. Programming and
simulation related laboratories are also being
conducted online. Virtual Labs are encouraged for
performing web-enabled experiments remotely.
Lecture notes, powerpoint presentations, e-books and
reading materials of courses are shared to students
through email as well as using online video
conferencing tools and social media platform like
WhatsApp. Recorded videos of experiments that need
physical hands-on were shared online. Revision /
remedial classes are conducted online for the benefit
of slow learners. Class Assessments are conducted
online using Campus Automation Management
System - Eduprime software. Student feedback is
also obtained using Eduprime software. In addition to
the above, Course Projects, Internship, Industry
Oriented Mini-Project, Technical Seminar,
Page 31/157 17-04-2024 03:44:26
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Comprehensive Viva Voce and Project Work are
conducted both in online and on-campus for
completion of the program. Apart from these,
students are allowed to pursue NPTEL-SWAYAM as
part of credit transfer facility as well as other
MOOCs for promoting self-learning. Also, all the
journals and books available in the Institute library
were made accessible to the students for online and
remote reading through ‘Knimbus’ app of VNR
Digital Library. Institute has a plan to introduce
handheld adaptive computing devices for students
that are based on artificial intelligence and machine
learning technologies as well as upgrade and enhance
the existing digital infrastructure capacity so as to be
future ready. • Institute has an active NPTEL local
chapter through which they are encouraged to take up
online certification courses for their upskilling. •
Institute used the opportunity due to COVID-19
pandemic and potential of our faculty and
infrastructure in curriculum delivery of courses of
B.Tech. and M.Tech. programmes through online
platforms for teaching learning activities.
Institutional Initiatives for Electoral Literacy
1. Whether Electoral Literacy Club (ELC) has been Electoral Literacy Club at VNRVJIET is established
set up in the College? with the mission of fostering electoral literacy and
active citizenship among the student community. The
Institution believes that students must be aware,
involved, and responsible participants in the
democratic system as the elections play a significant
role in determining the future course of the country.
The club works to provide students the knowledge,
abilities, and morals they need to become politically
conscious and socially responsible citizens through
an array of endeavours and projects. The Electoral
Literacy Club's objectives are as follows: 1.
Increasing Electoral Awareness: 2. Fostering Active
Citizenship: 3. Teaching about Political Systems: 4.
Empowering Voters: The goal of the Electoral
Literacy Club is to enhance political literacy among
students, promote open discourse, and motivate them
to act as change agents in their communities. It
imagines a student body that is dedicated to
defending democratic ideas, involved in civic issues,
Page 32/157 17-04-2024 03:44:26
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
and knowledgeable about them. The group attempts
to accomplish its purpose through a variety of events,
including workshops, seminars, panel discussions,
voter registration drives, simulated elections, and
community outreach initiatives. In order to give
students meaningful experiences and learning
opportunities, it tries to engage with election
authorities, civil society organisations, and
professionals in the field of electoral literacy. The
founding of the Electoral Literacy Club at
VNRVJIET is a reflection of the institution's
dedication to interdisciplinary learning and the
creation of socially conscious leaders. The group
strives to mould students into responsible citizens
who actively contribute to the advancement of
society by fostering an understanding of the
democratic process and encouraging participation.
2. Whether students’ co-ordinator and co-ordinating The institute administration is actively involved in
faculty members are appointed by the College and the process of selecting student coordinators and
whether the ELCs are functional? Whether the ELCs faculty coordinators for the Electoral Literacy Club
are representative in character? (ELC) at VNRVJIET. Capable students are carefully
chosen and appointed by the institute administration
to work as ELC coordinators. The student who
exhibit leadership skills and a strong interest in
promoting electoral literacy are chosen. They are in
charge of planning and directing various ELC
activities and projects. The institute administration
also appoints coordinating faculty members to offer
direction and support to the ELC. Coordinators are
selected based on their expertise and interest in
electoral literacy as well as their willingness to help
the clubs grow. They are essential in guiding and
mentoring the student coordinators as well as offering
the ELC insightful information and expertise. The
ELCs at VNRVJIET are intended to be functional,
which means that they actively participate in
planning events and campaigns for electoral literacy.
The combined efforts of the student coordinators,
coordinating faculty, and the ELC participants
themselves power these clubs. Together, they
organise and carry out activities like voter education
campaigns, workshops, seminars, debates, and mock
elections. Additionally, the VNRVJIET ELCs exhibit
characteristics that are typical. This indicates that the
clubs' objectives are to represent and include a wide
range of students from various backgrounds,
academic specialties, and viewpoints. By
Page 33/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
encouraging inclusivity, the ELC makes sure that the
activities and discussions cover a wide range of
points of view and help the student body develop a
deeper understanding of democratic principles. The
ELC collaborate closely with the institute
administration, coordinating faculty, and student
coordinators to develop the ELC's vision, plan its
activities, and make sure it runs smoothly. These
organisations are essential in promoting a strong
democratic culture among institute students,
encouraging active citizenship, and promoting
electoral literacy.
3. What innovative programmes and initiatives At the institution ELC is actively involved in a wide
undertaken by the ELCs? These may include range of initiatives to promote electoral literacy,
voluntary contribution by the students in electoral encourage student involvement in electoral processes
processes-participation in voter registration of on a volunteer basis, and encourage multiculturalism
students and communities where they come from, in democratic participation. The club seeks to inform,
assisting district election administration in conduct of empower, and raise student awareness of the electoral
poll, voter awareness campaigns, promotion of process through a variety of activities. ELC plans a
ethical voting, enhancing participation of the under wide variety of events to advance electoral literacy
privileged sections of society especially transgender, and involve students in discussions of democratic
commercial sex workers, disabled persons, senior principles and participation. The ELC engaged in the
citizens, etc. following activities, which are described below: 1.
Ballot Bistro: 147 students participated in the Ballot
Bistro event. Students had a platform to discuss
elections and voting through simulations and
discussions during this interactive activity. Students
were able to develop a deeper understanding of
political systems, voting procedures, and the value of
making informed decisions through group activities
and discussions. 2. Rap Battle: The event is
conducted at Rattaiah Square, with 245 students.
Students addressed political and social issues while
showcasing their rap abilities. The occasion promoted
artistic expression while also igniting debates on
subjects like democracy, social justice, and electoral
responsibility. 3. Photography Contest: 342 students
participated in the photography contest, which was
held in the PG Block Seminar Hall. Students were
encouraged to take pictures that exemplified the
democratic ideals, electoral procedures, and civic
engagement during this activity. Students
demonstrated their creativity through their
photographs while promoting democracy and the
value of voting. 4. Wall Magazine: 244 students
actively participated in the Wall Magazine project.
The goal of this initiative was to produce an eye-
Page 34/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
catching display of educational posters, writings, and
artwork about electoral literacy. The wall magazine
served as a constant presence on campus, giving
students access to knowledge about voting rights, the
electoral process, and the importance of taking part in
civic affairs. The club was able to successfully
encourage students to explore and understand the
significance of democratic values and their role in
electoral processes by fusing various art forms,
discussions, and educational displays.
4. Any socially relevant projects/initiatives taken by In order to address electoral-related issues, conduct
College in electoral related issues especially research research, surveys, awareness campaigns, create
projects, surveys, awareness drives, creating content, content, and publish materials that support the growth
publications highlighting their contribution to of democratic principles, the institution has
advancing democratic values and participation in undertaken a number of socially pertinent endeavors
electoral processes, etc. and initiatives. 1. Electoral Awareness Drives: To
inform students, faculty, and the general public about
the value of democratic participation, the institute
sponsors electoral awareness drives. Workshops,
panel discussions, and interactive sessions are all part
of these campaigns. Voter registration, moral voting,
the role of the media in elections, and comprehension
of the electoral process are just a few of the subjects
they cover. The institution wants to improve civic
engagement and active participation in the electoral
process through awareness-building. 2. Content
Production: VNRVJIET actively produces content
about political issues. This entails creating
educational pamphlets, signs, infographics, and audio-
visual materials that outline voting procedures, rights,
and obligations. Additionally, the institute promotes
faculty and student contributions to academic
journals and publications that highlight democratic
principles, electoral reforms, and civic engagement.
3. Partnerships and Collaborations: To increase its
influence on electoral-related issues, VNRVJIET
actively collaborates with electoral authorities, civil
society organisations, research institutions, and other
stakeholders. These partnerships make it easier for
people to share knowledge, conduct research
together, and carry out projects aimed at enhancing
electoral procedures and promoting democratic
values. 4. Student-led Initiatives: The institute
encourages students to organise initiatives that
promote civic engagement and electoral literacy. The
Electoral Literacy Club and other student
organisations are essential in creating awareness,
Page 35/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
running campaigns, and interacting with local
communities to promote electoral literacy. These
initiatives show that the student body is actively
involved and dedicated to advancing democratic
values. VNRVJIET seeks to significantly advance
democratic values and encourage participation in
electoral processes through these socially relevant
projects, initiatives, research projects, awareness
campaigns, and collaborations.
5. Extent of students above 18 years who are yet to be The Electoral Literacy Club (ELC) at VNRVJIET, in
enrolled as voters in the electoral roll and efforts by collaboration with the institute administration,
ELCs as well as efforts by the College to undertakes activities to institutionalise mechanisms
institutionalize mechanisms to register eligible for registering eligible students as voters. These
students as voters. initiatives aim to raise awareness, provide assistance,
and streamline the voter registration process. Voter
Registration Drives, Information Sessions and
Workshops, Voter Registration Assistance,
Collaboration with Election Authorities. Through
these activities, surveys, information sessions, and
collaborative efforts, the Electoral Literacy Club of
VNRVJIET and the institute administration work
towards institutionalising mechanisms for registering
eligible students as voters. Their goal is to create a
culture of active civic engagement, empower students
to exercise their democratic rights, and strengthen the
democratic process through increased youth
participation.
Page 36/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Extended Profile
1 Program
1.1
Number of programs offered year-wise for last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
27 26 22 21 21
File Description Document
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
1.2
Number of departments offering academic programmes
Response: 10
2 Students
2.1
Number of students year-wise during last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
6419 5853 5253 5246 5027
File Description Document
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
2.2
Number of outgoing / final year students year-wise during last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
File Description Document
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
Page 37/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
2.3
Number of students appeared in the examination conducted by the Institution, year-wise during the last
five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
6363 5811 5215 5015 4878
File Description Document
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
2.4
Number of revaluation applications year-wise during last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
221 213 148 189 184
3 Teachers
3.1
Number of courses in all programs year-wise during last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
935 868 758 687 742
File Description Document
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
3.2
Number of full time teachers year-wise during the last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
360 357 338 333 330
File Description Document
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
3.3
Page 38/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Number of sanctioned posts year-wise during last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
362 359 340 335 332
File Description Document
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
4 Institution
4.1
Number of eligible applications received for admissions to all the programs year-wise during last five
years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
3547 2331 2244 2620 2187
File Description Document
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
4.2
Number of seats earmarked for reserved category as per GOI/State Govt rule year-wise during last five
years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
693 609 525 504 504
File Description Document
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
4.3
Total number of classrooms and seminar halls
Response: 113
4.4
Total number of computers in the campus for academic purpose
Response: 2770
Page 39/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
4.5
Total Expenditure excluding salary year-wise during last five years ( INR in Lakhs)
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
5867.64 2820.30 1810.08 1821.63 4398.81
Page 40/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
4. Quality Indicator Framework(QIF)
Criterion 1 - Curricular Aspects
1.1 Curriculum Design and Development
1.1.1
Curricula developed and implemented have relevance to the local, national, regional and global
developmental needs which is reflected in Programme outcomes (POs), Programme Specific
Outcomes(PSOs) and Course Outcomes(COs) of the Programmes offered by the Institution.
Response:
VNRVJIET, the premier self-financing institution in Telangana State, offers 14 B.Tech. and 13
M.Tech. programmes besides Ph.D. programmes in 5 disciplines. The curricula of all these
programmes are society-driven, technology-based, industry-compliant, and product-inclined as
evident from the Programme Educational Objectives which have direct relevance to local,
regional national and global development needs. During the assessment period, the institution has
introduced 6 programmes in emerging technologies viz. B.Tech. CSE-Artificial Intelligence and
Machine Learning, B.Tech. Computer Science and Business Systems, B.Tech. CSE-Data
Science, B.Tech. CSE-Internet of Things, B.Tech. CSE-Cyber Security, B.Tech. Artificial
Intelligence and Data Science. These programmes are introduced in tandem with the Government
of India’s mission of Digital India and AatmaNirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. Curricula of various
academic programmes conform to the policies and guidelines of the State & Central Government
and fulfils the needs of the society and the industry. The curricula not only provide engineering
knowledge but also equip the students with desirable attributes and the needed skills. The
curricula promote Higher Order Thinking Skills such as analysing, evaluating, and synthesizing.
Care is taken to ensure that the curriculum is technology driven.
For developing all-rounded personality in the students, Institute provides academic flexibility by
implementing choice-based credit system curricula as well as by introducing new programmes
and courses. Institute is offering Minor degree programmes in Artificial Intelligence & Machine
Learning, Internet of Things, Cyber Security, Data Science, and Innovation & Entrepreneurship.
Curricula of all the programmes are developed in line with graduate attributes to frame Program
Outcomes (POs), Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs) and Course Outcomes (COs). Course
syllabi is formulated and revised through structured process based on stakeholder feedback.
Courses linked to Digital India, Make in India, T-Fiber, Industry 4.0 initiatives such as Big Data
Analytics, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Internet of Things, Augmented Reality and
Virtual Reality etc. are also integrated in the curriculum.
In line with the need of imparting skills to the budding engineers as envisaged in the Make in
India, Skill India, FutureSkills Prime initiatives of the government, courses on Design
Sensitization, Design Thinking, Computer Aided Design, Robotics, 3D Printing and Design,
Embedded Systems, etc. are included in the curriculum.
Curriculum offers courses in the field of “Cyber Space” such as Cyber Security, Blockchain
Technologies, Computer Forensics, Cryptography & network Security which are linked to
Government of India’s National Cyber Security Policy, Stay Safe Online, Cyber Swachhta
Kendra etc.
Page 41/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Curriculum includes the courses related to “Ujwal Bharat” scheme of Government of India on
conservation of energy like Renewable Energy Sources, Energy Storage Technologies, Energy
Conservation Systems, Energy Auditing and Management and Alternate Fuels.
Curriculum emphasizes the importance of sustainable environment through courses like
Environmental Studies, Air Pollution Control, Water Supply Engineering, Irrigation Engineering,
Hazardous Waste Management, Wastewater Engineering etc. which are mapped to initiatives of
state and central government like Haritha Haaram, Mission Kakatiya, National River
Conservation Plan, Swachh Bharat Mission, Waste to Wealth Mission, National Afforestation
Programme and Jal Shakti Abhiyan.
Curriculum also includes courses linked to National Smart Cities Mission as well as National
Mission on Transformative Mobility and Storage.
File Description Document
Any additional information View Document
Link for Additional Information View Document
1.1.2
Percentage of Programmes where syllabus revision was carried out during the last five years.
Response: 100
1.1.2.1 Number of all Programmes offered by the institution during the last five years.
Response: 27
1.1.2.2 How many Programmes were revised out of total number of Programmes offered during
the last five years
Response: 27
File Description Document
Minutes of relevant Academic Council/BOS View Document
meeting
Details of program syllabus revision in last 5 View Document
years(Data Template)
Any additional information View Document
Link for Additional Information View Document
1.1.3
Page 42/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Average percentage of courses having focus on employability/ entrepreneurship/ skill development
offered by the institution during the last five years
Response: 100
1.1.3.1 Number of courses having focus on employability/ entrepreneurship/ skill development year-
wise during the last five years..
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
935 868 758 687 742
File Description Document
Programme / Curriculum/ Syllabus of the courses View Document
MoU's with relevant organizations for these View Document
courses, if any
Minutes of the Boards of Studies/ Academic View Document
Council meetings with approvals for these courses
Average percentage of courses having focus on View Document
employability/ entrepreneurship(Data Template)
Any additional information View Document
Link for Additional Information View Document
1.2 Academic Flexibility
1.2.1
Percentage of new courses introduced of the total number of courses across all programs offered
during the last five years.
Response: 34.52
1.2.1.1 How many new courses are introduced within the last five years
Response: 397
1.2.1.2 Number of courses offered by the institution across all programmes during the last five
years.
Response: 1150
Page 43/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Document
Minutes of relevant Academic Council/BOS View Document
meetings
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
Any additional information View Document
1.2.2
Percentage of Programmes in which Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) / elective course system
has been implemented (Data for the latest completed academic year).
Response: 100
1.2.2.1 Number of Programmes in which CBCS / Elective course system implemented.
Response: 27
File Description Document
Minutes of relevant Academic Council/BOS View Document
meetings
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
Any additional information View Document
Link for Additional Information View Document
1.3 Curriculum Enrichment
1.3.1
Institution integrates crosscutting issues relevant to Professional Ethics ,Gender, Human Values
,Environment and Sustainability into the Curriculum
Response:
The institution integrates cross-cutting issues relevant to gender, environment and sustainability,
human values and professional ethics into the curriculum. The institution has made
Environmental Studies as the compulsory subject to I year B.Tech. students. Other courses like
Renewable Energy Technologies, Environmental Impact Assessment, Air Pollution and Control,
Disaster Management, Waste-Water Management, Automotive Pollution and Control and
Environmental Engineering Laboratory are offered to the students of B.Tech. programmes with
regard to Environment and Sustainability.
Being an institution practicing inclusive approach, VNRVJIET rightly has included a course on
Gender Sensitization in all B.Tech. programs. Students are made aware of issues related to gender
Page 44/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
inequality and violence, fair opportunities for competing, etc.
Since, education is a holistic development of the personality, the institution offers a course on
Professional Ethics and Human Values to B.Tech. students. Courses like Soft Skills and
Personality Development, Code of Ethics have built-in aspects of professional ethics. Institution
takes care to ensure that value-based education is imparted to students. The engineers emerging
out of the portals of the institution are professionals crowned with the best values. Institute
implemented Anti-Plagiarism policy from 2017. Theses & publications are accepted with
similarity index of 25% or less.
Few offered courses cater to the needs of security and sustainable environment like Green IT,
Cyber Security, etc.
Sample of courses on cross-cutting issues are listed below.
Cross-Cutting Issues Courses in Curriculum Offered to Regulation
Gender Gender SensitizationIII B.Tech. I Sem R19
(19MN6HS03)
Gender SensitizationIII B.Tech. I Sem R18
(18MN6HS03)
Professional Ethics andCode of Ethics (5CS11) I B.Tech. II Sem R15
Human Values Ethical Hacking andI M.Tech. I Sem R18
Computer Forensics
(18PE1CP03)
Ethical HackingI M.Tech. I Sem R18
(18PE1CN10)
Research MethodologyI M.Tech. I Sem R18
and IPR
Professional Ethics andIII B.Tech. I Sem R18
Human Values
( 18OE1HS01)
Ethical HackingIII B.Tech. I Sem R19
(19PC1CS62)
Ethical HackingIII B.Tech. I Sem R19
Laboratory (19PC2CS62)
Ethical Hacking andIII B.Tech. II Sem R19
Computer Forensics
(19PE1CS34)
Personality DevelopmentIV B.Tech. I Sem R19
and Public Speaking
(19OE1HS03)
Environment andEnvironmental StudiesI B.Tech. I Sem R15
Sustainability (5CE03)
Environmental ImpactI M.Tech. I Sem R15
Assessment for Highway
Projects (HIG12)
Page 45/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Environment and EcologyI M.Tech. I Sem R15
(GTE13)
Geo-Environmental I M.Tech. I Sem R15
Engineering (GTE15)
Environmental IV B.Tech. I Sem R15
Engineering (5CE23)
Environmental ImpactI M.Tech. I Sem R18
Assessment for Highway
Projects (18PE1HW05)
Environment and EcologyI M.Tech. II Sem R18
(18PE1GT08)
Environmental II M.Tech. I Sem R18
Geotechnology
(18PE1GT14)
Environmental ScienceII B.Tech. II Sem R18
(18MN6HS02)
Environment ImpactIII B.Tech. II Sem R19
Assessment
(19PE1CE08)
Environmental IV B.Tech. I Sem R19
Engineering Laboratory
(19PC2CE09)
Disaster ManagementIII B.Tech. I Sem R15
(5CE71)
Earthquake ResistantIV B.Tech. II Sem R19
Design of Buildings
(19PE1CE26)
Smart Cities Planning andIII B.Tech. I Sem R18
Development
(18OE1CE01)
Green BuildingsIII B.Tech. II Sem R18
(18PE1CE02)
Smart Materials andIV B.Tech. I Sem R18
Structures (18OE1CE03)
Intelligent TransportationIV B.Tech. II Sem R18
System (18OE1CE04)
File Description Document
Upload the list and description of the courses View Document
which address the Gender, Environment and
Sustainability, Human Values and Professional
Ethics into the Curriculum
Any additional information View Document
Page 46/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
1.3.2
Number of value-added courses for imparting transferable and life skills offered during last five
years.
Response: 248
1.3.2.1 How many new value-added courses are added within the last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
47 53 24 60 64
File Description Document
List of value added courses (Data Template) View Document
Brochure or any other document relating to value View Document
added courses
Any additional information View Document
1.3.3
Average Percentage of students enrolled in the courses under 1.3.2 above.
Response: 86.52
1.3.3.1 Number of students enrolled in subject related Certificate or Add-on programs year wise
during last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
6212 5732 4090 4695 3547
File Description Document
List of students enrolled View Document
Any additional information View Document
1.3.4
Percentage of students undertaking field projects/ internships / student projects (Data for the latest
completed academic year)
Page 47/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Response: 89.83
1.3.4.1 Number of students undertaking field projects / internships / student projects
Response: 5766
File Description Document
List of programs and number of students View Document
undertaking field projects / internships / student
projects (Data Template)
Any additional information View Document
Link for Additional Information View Document
1.4 Feedback System
1.4.1
Structured feedback for design and review of syllabus – semester-wise / year-wise is received from
1) Students, 2) Teachers, 3) Employers,
4) Alumni
Response: A. All 4 of the above
File Description Document
Action taken report of the Institution on feedback View Document
report as minuted by the Governing Council,
Syndicate, Board of Management
Link for Additional Information View Document
URL for stakeholder feedback report View Document
1.4.2
The feedback system of the Institution comprises of the following :
Response: A. Feedback collected, analysed and action taken and report made available on website
File Description Document
URL for stakeholder feedback report View Document
Page 48/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Criterion 2 - Teaching-learning and Evaluation
2.1 Student Enrollment and Profile
2.1.1
Average Enrolment percentage (Average of last five years)
Response: 93.9
2.1.1.1 Number of students admitted year-wise during last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
1939 1635 1371 1368 1379
2.1.1.2 Number of sanctioned seats year wise during last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
2110 1734 1494 1434 1434
File Description Document
Institutional data in prescribed format (Data View Document
Template)
Any additional information View Document
2.1.2
Average percentage of seats filled against reserved categories (SC, ST, OBC, Divyangjan, etc. as
per applicable reservation policy ) during the last five years ( exclusive of supernumerary seats)
Response: 95.94
2.1.2.1 Number of actual students admitted from the reserved categories year wise during last five
years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
677 600 508 466 475
Page 49/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Document
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
Any additional information View Document
Link for Additional Information View Document
2.2 Catering to Student Diversity
2.2.1
The institution assesses the learning levels of the students and organises special Programmes for
advanced learners and slow learners
Response:
VNRVJIETs’ Learner Centric Ambience, Curricular Reforms and Extra Curricular Reinventions
nurtures different learning levels of the students in preparing all round personalities. The ecosystem of
the institution provides equal opportunities and grooms all students of diverse backgrounds, abilities, and
learner groups. The Institution follows an established process depicted below for identifying the various
learning levels of the students and thereby improving upon them.
Figure: Strategies to Identify and Support Slow Learners and Encourage Advanced Learners
Diagnosing Learners’ Abilities:
Assessing the learning levels of the students is of prime importance at VNR VJIET.
The learning abilities of students are identified by conducting diagnostic tests in Mathematics,
English and Basic Programming.
A structured Mentoring and Training process is in place and the institute provides faculty
mentor for every student.
Based on the interactions with the students, SWOC(Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities,
Challenges) regular performance of the students, necessary counselling and training are provided
to cater to the needs of slow and advanced learners.
Through Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE), course faculty identifies the students with less
performance and HoDs with the help of mentors and course faculty, identify slow learners and
advanced learners.
Catering to the needs of Advanced Learners:
Advanced learners are advised to register for Minor and Honors degree programs with additional
credits of 18-20 in Emerging Technologies and specialized domains.
Advanced learners are facilitated to register for Credit Transfer through SWAYAM-NPTEL
MOOCs promoting self-learning.
Page 50/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Additional courses viz., NPTEL/MOOCs, Certifications in AWS, PRIMAVERA, ETABS,
Google UX Design, Full Stack Development, FPGA Design, Wind Energy Systems, Self-Driving
Cars,3 D Printing, ANSYS,Hyper Mesh, etc. are advised to enhance their skills.
VJ-Hub, Weekend Projects Laboratory promotes research initiatives and projects in addressing
the passion of advanced learners to work in their interested domains.
Advanced learners are guided and encouraged towards internships in Google, Microsoft,
Amazon, Synopsys, Siemens, Hitachi, Delloite, JP Morgan, HBL, BHEL, TCS, DRDO, NRSA,
Hyundai Mobis, L&T etc.
Participating in various Hackathons, Ideathons, CodeChef, Coding contests, national level
competitions, technical symposiums and open house etc improves the competitive skills. Student
teams have represented in national-level hardware, software hackathons and received awards.
Students with research capabilities are involved in R&D, consultancy projects and innovation
leading to patents and start-ups.
Catering to the needs of Slow Learners:
Bridge courses in Programming, Mathematics, and English Communication Skills are conducted
for Lateral Entry students to provide confidence and bridge the gap between the Diploma
programme and the Undergraduate programme.
Remedial classes and peer tutorials by course faculty are conducted for the slow learners to
overcome their difficulties in the specific course by providing learning resources through LMS
Platforms.
Apart from the above methodologies, activities like Think-Pair-Share, POGIL, Tutorials and
worksheets, encourage the slow learners to transform into advanced learners.
The curriculum is compatible to impart Project Based Learning and emerging technologies as track-
based courses within the credit structure to team up both slow learners and advanced learners.
Project-based learning is promoting the grouping of slow learners and advanced learners which enables
peer learning. This practice is ensuring that learners of various abilities are able to work cohesively and
publish research papers.
Thus, the special efforts practiced in the institution help in encouraging the slow learner to transform to
an advanced learner and prepare an advanced learner to reach the highest opportunities.
File Description Document
Any additional information View Document
2.2.2
Student - Full time teacher ratio (Data for the latest completed academic year)
Response: 17.83
Page 51/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Document
Any additional information View Document
2.3 Teaching- Learning Process
2.3.1
Student centric methods, such as experiential learning, participative learning and problem solving
methodologies are used for enhancing learning experiences
Response:
The teaching-learning process is one of the major objectives and strengths of the institution. VNRVJIET
focuses on learner-centric methods in the delivery of curriculum for the all-round development of
students which is the essence of Outcome Based Education (OBE). Vibrant teaching-learning process,
mostly learner-centric methods viz. WIT & WIL™, Storyboard, VNR Lab Protocol™, Process Oriented
Guided Inquiry Learning (POGIL), Learning by Doing, Think-Pair-Share, Course Based Projects, Field
visits / Guest lectures, Certificate courses, Project Based Learning. The institution has initiated many
novel pedagogical methods and techniques in teaching learning as its differentiators.
Experiential Learning Methodologies:
Experiential learning emphasizes hands-on experiences and active engagement as it involves learning
through direct exposure to real life situation. Simulations, demonstrations, case-studies, etc. are practiced
in the implementation of experiential learning to enhance the skill set of students. Courses in the
curriculum are designed in such a way that students work on course based projects both theory and in
laboratory right from freshmen level. The initiatives of the institute which caters experiential learning
among students are lined up as:
VNR Lab Protocol™
Storyboard
Internships
Learning by Doing
Industry Oriented Mini Projects
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Outdoor education (Camping and Hiking by CSBS students)
Participative Learning Methodologies:
Participative learning activities encourage students to contribute, collaborate and take ownership of their
learning with enhanced team spirit. Group discussions, Peer teaching, Debates, Role-Play, Collaborative
projects, Think-Pair-Share, Student-led Presentations, Workshops, Hackathons etc. empower the students
in fostering deep engagement, critical thinking and development of 21st Century skills in line with
NEP-2020. The above mentioned activities are attained through the following differentiators:
WIT & WIL™ (Why am I Teaching – What I am Teaching from Teacher’s perspective and Why
Page 52/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
am I Learning – What I am Learning from Student’s perspective approach)
Show and Tell
Open House
Convergence
Process Oriented Guided Inquiry Learning (POGIL)
Flipped Classroom & Blended Learning
Problem Solving Methodologies:
Problem solving activities helps in stimulating creativity, innovative mindset, confidence building,
navigate challenges, foster collaboration and teamwork. The problem solving mindset will equip the
students in solving complex problems with resilience and contribute positive outcomes in various
domains of life. In this context, the institute adopted courses like Design Sensitization and Design
Thinking, Innovation and Entrepreneurship.
Students in due course of solving problems are taking care of technical, economic, social, environmental,
political and demographic feasibility through Mini-projects, Major projects and Course based projects
under the following set.
Brainstorming
Case Studies
Course Based Projects
Project Based Learning
Hackathons
Gamification, etc.
The faculty of VNR VJIET have been implementing all the differentiators mentioned above in holistic
development of self and students which is evident by the feedback. Journal and conference papers are
published on WIT & WIL™ and POGIL by faculty.
File Description Document
Any additional information View Document
2.3.2
Teachers use ICT enabled tools including online resources for effective teaching and learning
process.
Response:
The prime focus of VNRVJIET has always been imparting quality education through well-defined and
up-to-date curriculum and novel teaching-learning methodologies. The use of ICT tools is indispensable
to effective teaching. With the fast-growing advancements in the digital technologies, the teaching
learning process at VNRVJIET has been realigned so as to make extensive use of ICT enabled tools for
promoting and encouraging student-centered learning, higher order thinking, problem solving,
Page 53/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
cooperative learning, collaborative learning, social learning , self-paced learning ,and integrated learning.
Some of the ICT tools used for effective teaching and learning process at VNRVJIET are as follows:
Eduprime Academic & Learning Management System (LMS)
Google Classroom
Microsoft Teams
Virtual Labs
Smart classroom
e-Resources
VNRVJIET has developed its Academic & Learning Management System (LMS) called “Eduprime”
software and most of the teaching learning process tools have been integrated into it. The Eduprime LMS
platform is customized with the following features that facilitate services like
User Management
Course Management
Academic Tracking
Student Attendance
Quizzes And Assignments
Student Feedback
Course End Survey
Assessment And Evaluation
Online selection of open elective and professional elective courses in Eduprime software by B.Tech.
students reflects the implemention of academic flexibility in digital platforms.
To enrich the teaching and learning with digital resources and integration of latest technological
education inventions, Centre for Education Technology is facilitating all the faculty members with
training programs on online teaching learning tools,effective utilization of digital platforms for content
development and delivery,video content development etc.
Other tools like emails and social media platforms are also utilized for sharing of learning material,
NPTEL and YouTube videos as supplementary teaching resources, other MOOC for additional teaching
and learning content etc. Faculty members also use Google Classroom, Microsoft Teams etc., for
conducting reviews of technical seminars, comprehensive viva-voce and projects.
For effective delivery of curriculum, all the classrooms are equipped with the following:
LCD projector
Wi-Fi
Audio System
Each department has a smart classroom equipped with a Smart Board.
Conferences,Workshops,Training Programs,Guest Lectures etc. are conducted in virtual mode/hybrid
mode by connecting remotely with Industry and Academia experts for the enhancement of latest
technological developments.
Page 54/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
VNRVJIET has a vast collection of online resources which faculty and students can use through digital
library software called “KNIMBUS”, which comprises of online journal databases, e-books and e-
journals like, Elsevier, Springer, ASME, ASCE, IEEE, DELNET etc.
Integrated Library Management System (ILMS) is in place to access the library collection remotely
through KOHA software and also through an inhouse developed M-LIBRARY mobile app which is
useful for all students and faculty.
VNRVJIET has tools and systems available for the faculty to develop technical content of their
respective courses for efficient content management. Faculty have prepared video lectures of their
courses and shared them to the students through LMS, Google Drive and Youtube.
During the challenging times of COVID-19, the institute has regained the teaching learning process at a
rapid phase by reiterating the capacity enhancement of all faculty members to switch to online teaching -
learning.
Use of ICT and online teaching and learning is depicted in the figure below.
File Description Document
Any additional information View Document
Provide link for webpage describing ICT enabled View Document
tools including online resources for effective
teaching and learning process
2.3.3
Ratio of students to mentor for academic and other related issues (Data for the latest completed
academic year )
Response: 19.1
2.3.3.1 Number of mentors ?????????????? ???????
Response: 336
Page 55/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Document
Upload year wise, number of students enrolled and View Document
full time teachers on roll
Circulars pertaining to assigning mentors to View Document
mentees
Any additional information View Document
Link for additional information View Document
2.3.4
Preparation and adherence of Academic Calendar and Teaching plans by the institution
Response:
Academic Calendar:
The Academic calendar of VNRVJIET outlines the important dates and events for an academic year. The
institute Academic calendar for B.Tech. and M.Tech. Programs is prepared by the Academic Coordinator
in line with the guidelines of regulatory bodies and inputs from BoS Chairpersons and Deans. The draft
Academic calendar is verified by the Dean, Academics and approved by the Principal through Institute
Academic Committee (IAC). The Academic Calendar is prepared for two semesters with each semester
consisting of 16 weeks of instruction excluding examination period and other holidays. Academic
calendar includes the dates of the following in a semester:
Course registration
Commencement of classes
Class review committee meeting
Student feedback
Class assessments
Sessional examinations
Registration of semester end examination
Project reviews
End of classes
Course end survey
Internal practical exam
Semester end examination of theory and practical courses
Break for internship/mini-project
Winter break/Summer vacation
Academic Calendar is displayed on the department notice boards and a copy is also available in the
Institute Website. The links are:
http://vnrvjiet.ac.in/bac.php and http://vnrvjiet.ac.in/mac.php
Page 56/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Adherence to Academic Calendar:
Institute takes all the steps to ensure adherence to the dates specified in the academic calendar.
Reminders are sent to departments regarding a scheduled activity well in advance through email. Head of
the Departments through Class Review Committee Meeting and Principal through Institute Academic
Committee with Head of the departments tracks and ensures the adherence of the academic calendar. In
case of any deviation, approval of IAC must be taken.
Teaching Plans:
Every faculty prepares the Academic (Teaching) plan in the prescribed format available in “Eduprime”
Learning Management System before the commencement of the classwork every semester. The academic
plan structure is prepared in line with Outcome Based Education. The contents of the plan include:
Course prerequisites
Course objectives and outcomes
Mapping of course outcomes with program outcomes
Learning resources
Delivery methodologies – LBD, WIT&WIL, POGIL etc.
Assessment methods
Detailed unit wise lecture plan
Assignment and tutorial questions
Model question paper
Link to video lectures
Additional information over and above the curriculum
Adherence to the Academic (Teaching) plan:
Adherence to the Teaching plan is followed by the faculty and details are recorded in the Attendance and
Evaluation Record. The Class Review Committee meeting of students with HOD and respective faculty
of the class; and Department faculty meeting are conducted at regular intervals to monitor the progress of
the classes. In addition, the Head of the Departments and Academic Audit Cell audits the academic plans
of faculty and the audit reports are submitted to the Head of the departments for necessary action.
Eduprime software also assists in gauging the completion of the syllabus as well as adherence to teaching
plans.
File Description Document
Upload Academic Calendar and Teaching plans for View Document
five years
2.4 Teacher Profile and Quality
2.4.1
Page 57/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Average percentage of full time teachers against sanctioned posts during the last five years
Response: 99.42
File Description Document
Year wise full time teachers and sanctioned posts View Document
for 5 years(Data Template)
List of the faculty members authenticated by the View Document
Head of HEI
Any additional information View Document
2.4.2
Average percentage of full time teachers with Ph. D. / D.M. / M.Ch. / D.N.B Superspeciality / D.Sc.
/ D.Litt. during the last five years (consider only highest degree for count)
Response: 43.65
2.4.2.1 Number of full time teachers with Ph.D./D.M/M.Ch./D.N.B Superspeciality/D.Sc./D’Lit. year
wise during the last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
194 159 146 129 125
File Description Document
Institutional data in prescribed format (Data View Document
Template)
Any additional information View Document
2.4.3
Average teaching experience of full time teachers in the same institution (Data for the latest
completed academic year in number of years)
Response: 9.12
2.4.3.1 Total experience of full-time teachers
Response: 3282
Page 58/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Document
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
Any additional information View Document
2.5 Evaluation Process and Reforms
2.5.1
Average number of days from the date of last semester-end/ year- end examination till the
declaration of results year-wise during the last five years
Response: 27.15
2.5.1.1 Number of days from the date of last semester-end/ year- end examination till the
declaration of results year wise during the last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
35.73 31.18 21.81 25.82 21.20
File Description Document
Institutional data in prescribed format (Data View Document
Template)
Any additional information View Document
2.5.2
Average percentage of student complaints/grievances about evaluation against total number
appeared in the examinations during the last five years
Response: 3.5
2.5.2.1 Number of complaints/grievances about evaluation year wise during the last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
221 213 148 189 184
Page 59/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Document
Number of complaints and total number of students View Document
appeared year wise
2.5.3
IT integration and reforms in the examination procedures and processes including Continuous
Internal Assessment (CIA) have brought in considerable improvement in Examination
Management System (EMS) of the Institution
Response:
The Examination and Evaluation Section has an integrated software which automates the whole activities
of the system right from Examination registration to publishing final results. Continuous efforts for
processing and streamlining the operations of the Examination and Evaluation System systematically has
transformed the conventional examination practices towards IT enabled ones at VNRVJIET.
IT Integration: All the Examination Activities are fully integrated with the Information Technology
(IT) in the Examination Management System (EMS) “Eduprime Examination Module v3.0”. The
major activities carried out through the EMS are Registration for Examinations, Payment of Examination
fee, Marks entry by faculty for theory and Laboratory Examinations, Continuous Internal
Assessments(CIA) through e-learning platforms, generation of admit cards, D Form entry, decoding of
scripts, processing and publishing of results, and result analysis. The Examination Management System
is part of the Institute ERP System (EDUPRIME) and fully integrated with other subsystems of ERP like
Academics, Admissions and Accounts Sections. Students can login into the Institute ERP portal for
360-degree view of their data like detailed attendance, academic performance, and other activities.
The Key Features of the EMS are listed below.
Entry, verification and correction of student information; courses and course mapping.
Examination Seating arrangements and Seating Plans.
Entry of Timetable - CIA and SEE.
Admit Card Generation.
Exam attendance report (D-form) for both CIA and SEE during the examination.
Publication of Semester Results.
Submission of applications for revaluation and online fee payment.
Supports the credit system, grade system and mark system.
Printing of Semester Grade sheets, Consolidated statement of grades, Transfer Certificate,
Provisional Certificate, Transcripts, and Duplicate certificates.
Supports Revaluation and Challenge Valuation entry of marks to arrive at the final marks.
VNRJIET also implements reforms regarding the Examination and Evaluation procedure through the
Page 60/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
integration of IT.
Some of the Key Reforms are:
Implementation of MOOCs for credit transfer as recommended by UGC/AICTE through online
platforms like NPTEL-SWAYAM.
Implementation of Digi locker facility to store the academic transcripts of the student.
Credit transfer facility for transfer students from other institutions.
Plagiarism check for B.Tech / M.Tech Projects.
Impact of IT integration in Examination Management System (EMS):
Processing of Results improved substantially.
Encoding and decoding of answer booklets ensures confidentiality and unbiased evaluation.
Improved reliability, efficiency, security, transparency, confidentiality, and accuracy of the exam
process.
A timely issue of certificates helps final year students towards their placements and higher
studies.
The inclusion of enhanced security features has nullified the chances of manipulation and
duplication of certificates.
Credit transfer facility for the students pursuing the courses through online platforms like NPTEL-
SWAYAM.
Outcome Based Education: The evaluation pattern is upgraded to assess the Outcome Based Education
(OBE). IT enabled software helps the Institution in terms of assessing different levels of knowledge of
the learners based on the Revised Bloom’s Taxonomy which is a mandatory reform implemented in both
Internal and External Examinations. The tool for measuring Course Outcomes (COs) for all courses are
implemented by specifying Cos and Blooms Levels against each Question in CIA and SEE Question
papers. It facilitates adopting required changes in the teaching and learning process to know the outcome
levels of the learners in the evaluation system.
OMR based Answer booklets for examinations avoids manual coding by adapting barcode to provide
error free and increase the Transparency of the system. IT integration has reduced the time taken for
declaration of results. Transparent evaluation, hastened fact finding, grievance redressal and stringent
norms have reduced student complaints and grievances of students. PC/CMM/Grade sheets with bar code
and 16 security features, electronic mode of mark verification and adopting absolute Grading system
provides testimony for effective integration of IT into the system.
Transparency: It is a best practice of the Institute which strengthens the credibility of the Examination
System. The students are given an opportunity to go through their evaluated answer scripts of the
Semester End Examinations through Challenge Evaluation which ensures Transparency in the system.
The students grievances with regard to Examination and Evaluation are received offline as well as online
(E.mail: examgrievances@vnrvjiet.in) are duly rectified.
Grade Sheets / Memos: Marks entry, Grades, Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA), Cumulative
Grade Point Average (CGPA) and analysis of results are fully automated in EMS system. The mark
statement of every semester is accessible to the Heads of the Departments, mentors, students and parents
to assess the performance of students periodically and mentor them.
Page 61/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Complete processing, compilation and declaration of result is automated in EMS which yielded:
Fast and error free compilation of results.
Real time database generation with consistent and accurate data.
Provides security for the system using SSL certificate integration to the EMS stem.
Generation of Provisional certificates/Consolidated grade-sheets after publication of results.
The UGC Regulation on “Academic Integrity and Prevention of Plagiarism” is adopted from May,2018
to check plagiarism percentage in manuscripts of research publications of M.Tech / B.Tech theses.
Introduction of credit- based MOOC courses for UG students has given special impetus to IT integration
with Semester/ CIA evaluation by Examination division. Transfer of credits through NPTEL/
SWAYAM/MOOCS has been implemented.
NEP-2020 Initiatives: The Institute joined hands with National Academic depository (NAD) for
opening account with Digi locker facility, which is a 24X7 online, permanent, and safe to store the
Academic awards of the students. The Efforts are on to introduce the Academic Bank of Credits (ABC)
for which the formal approval from the University is expected. ABC shall provide a variety of services
like credit accumulation, credit redemption, credit verification and credit exchange for the
implementation of NEP-2020 which allows multiple entry and exit schemes.
Thus, the reforms of the examination management system of VNRVJIET with IT integration has not
only improved the process and procedures of examination and evaluation but also yielded transparent,
fair, error & hassle free, quick, and effective evaluation.
File Description Document
Any additional information View Document
Link for Additional Information View Document
2.6 Student Performance and Learning Outcomes
2.6.1
Programme and course outcomes for all Programmes offered by the institution are stated and
displayed on website and communicated to teachers and students.
Response:
VNRVJIET has implemented outcome-based education (OBE), which is a student-centered approach that
focuses on measuring student achievement based on specific, predefined outcomes or competencies after
they finish the course. It shifts the emphasis from traditional methods of education to a more holistic
assessment of skills and knowledge application. In 2013, seven B.Tech. programmes received
accreditation under OBE. Programme Specific Outcomes (PSOs), Programme Outcomes (POs), and
Course Outcomes (COs) have evolved in accordance with OBE as it aids the student in achieving
significant results.
Page 62/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Each department determines the Programme Specific Outcomes (PSOs), Programme Outcomes (POs) in
accordance with the Graduate Attributes mandated by NBA. PEOs of the programme are taking into
account by taking input from faculty and alumni in cognizance of the latest technology demand, job
prospects, societal requirements, and regulatory/professional bodies like AICTE, UGC, ASME, ASCE,
CSI, ISOI, IEEE, etc.
The course outcomes for the subjects are formulated by the course coordinator while designing the
syllabus to address the higher order thinking among the students.
The Programme Assessment committee formulates and redefines the PEOs, PSOs, POs Course
Objectives and Course Outcomes for OBE.
Department Academic Committee (DAC) reviews the PEOs, PSOs, POs Course Objectives and Course
Outcomes and submits the same for approval by the Board of Studies (BoS) comprising of experts from
academia, Industry and Alumni.
Academic Council of the institute reviews and ratifies the PEOs, PSOs, POs Course Objectives and
Course Outcomes of all the departments.
Dissemination:
The dissemination of Program Educational Objectives (PEOs), Program Outcomes (POs) and Program
Specific Outcomes (PSOs) to students and faculty are carried out through the platforms listed below:
Electronic and Print Media:
Department website
Syllabus Books
Department Brochure
Institute and Department Premises:
Program Specific Classrooms
Program Specific Laboratories
Department Notice Boards
Awareness to Stakeholders:
Faculty meetings
Student induction programme
Alumni meetings
Parents meetings
Employer meetings
Professional Body meetings
The Course Outcomes of all the courses are published through
Syllabus Books
Page 63/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Institute Website
Eduprime LMS
OBE awareness Porgrammes for faculty and students:
Training and awareness programme for OBE are conducted to empower the faculty to understand
and plan the syllabus in line with the PEOs, PSOs, POs and Cos for effective implementation of
the programmes.
All the Course Coordinators explain the course objectives, course outcomes, academic plan and
schedule, evaluation pattern etc. to the students in the first class of the course delivery.
The Institute has well-defined POs & PSOs for all programs and COs for all the courses which are well
defined, disseminated and integrated with the teaching-learning and evaluation system.
File Description Document
Upload COs for all courses (exemplars from View Document
Glossary)
Any additional information View Document
Link for Additional Information View Document
2.6.2
Attainment of programme outcomes and course outcomes are evaluated by the institution.
Response:
VNRVJIET has a robust evaluation mechanism to assess the attainment of Course Outcomes,
Programme Outcomes (POs) / Programme Specific Outcomes (PSOs) which are approved by PAC,
DAC, BOS and AC of the institute. The evaluation of the COs, POs, PSOs reflects the capabilities and
skills earned by the students at the time of graduation.
At the end of each programme, the PO/PSO attainment is calculated based on the CO attainment of all
curriculum components.
The course offered by the departments provide a defined set of course outcomes and corresponding
evaluation criteria. The course outcomes are mapped with the programme outcomes in order to provide
the quantitative measurement of the programme outcomes.
Eduprime software facilitates the calculation of CO attainment.
For each course, the level of attainment of each CO is compared with the predefined targets. In an event
of non-compliance, the course coordinator takes necessary steps to reach the target levels. The
Page 64/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
programme coordinator calculates the PO/PSO attainment by mapping CO against PO/PSO.
CO Attainment:
CO attainment is calculated using both direct and indirect tools.
Direct assessment is calculated through:
Semester End Examination
Sessional Examination
Class Assessment
Projects or any other instrument used by the faculty
It is computed based on weightages defined for the above in the evaluation criteria.
Indirect Assessment is calculated using:
Course End Survey
Course End Survey is conducted online through Eduprime for all the courses at the end of semester to
obtain formal feedback from students with regards to meeting of course outcomes.
Final CO attainment is computed based on 80% weightage to direct attainment and 20% weightage to
indirect attainment.
The level of attainment of each Course Outcome is fixed based on the level attained through class
average. Summary of CO attainment of each course is analyzed to find out the reasons for non-attainment
and to initiate an action plan.
Attainment of POs/PSOs:
The assessment process uses both direct and indirect attainments.
Direct attainment is obtained based on CO attainment of all the courses.
Programme articulation matrix is prepared based on the CO attainments of all courses and mapping of
COs to appropriate POs and PSOs through strength of correlation – 1, 2 and 3.
Averages are used to calculate POs and PSOs based on the course articulation and programme
articulation matrices.
Indirect attainment is computed using:
Graduate Exit Feedback
Alumni Feedback
Employer Feedback
Page 65/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Parent Feedback
The level of attainment of POs is fixed at 70% i.e., 2.1 out of 3. Summary of PO attainment of
programme is analyzed to know the non-compliance of attainment of specific POs. Accordingly,
BoS/Academic Council recommends improvements in curriculum, its delivery and assessment methods.
File Description Document
Any additional information View Document
2.6.3
Pass Percentage of students(Data for the latest completed academic year)
Response: 91.63
2.6.3.1 Total number of final year students who passed the examination conducted by Institution.
Response: 1325
2.6.3.2 Total number of final year students who appeared for the examination conducted by the
Institution.
Response: 1446
File Description Document
Upload List of Programmes and number of View Document
students passed and appeared in the final year
examination(Data Template)
Any additional information View Document
Link for the annual report View Document
2.7 Student Satisfaction Survey
2.7.1
Online student satisfaction survey regarding teaching learning process
Response: 3.57
File Description Document
Upload database of all currently enrolled students View Document
Page 66/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Criterion 3 - Research, Innovations and Extension
3.1 Promotion of Research and Facilities
3.1.1
The institution's Research facilities are frequently updated and there is a well defined policy for
promotion of research which is uploaded on the institutional website and implemented
Response:
The Institution places emphasis on research and innovation, recognizing their crucial role in academic
excellence and overall success. The commitment of faculty towards research and incubation activities
significantly impacts the achievement of its goals. In this regard, institute has well defined policies for
Research, Consultancy, IPR and Incubation for promoting research, consultancy and is uploaded in
VNRVJIET website. The faculty and students are encouraged to actively participate in various research
activities to excel in research and providing quality solutions to the society.
The Institute has established Research and Consultancy Centre (RCC) in the year 2006 for Research and
Development in multidisciplinary areas of Engineering and Sciences. Notably, faculty have 47
sponsored research projects worth of Rs. 388.83 lakh during the assessment period sponsored by SERB,
DST, UGC, AICTE, DRDO, BIRAC, MeItY, DAE, ISRO, JNTUH(TEQIP-III) and TSCOST. Some of
the national level projects carried out are Weapon Locking and Tracking System, Secured Weapon
Shooting Information System, Cough and Wheeze Analyzer, Real time water quality monitoring, and
Semi Prosthetic Hand. Collaboration with adjunct faculty, professors of practice, industry, and
government organizations facilitates sponsored research projects and consultancy.
The Institute has recognized research centres in the department of CSE, ECE, EEE, ME, CE by JNTU
Hyderabad and AICTE. 12 fulltime Ph.D. scholars were admitted through AICTE-NDF Scheme and
JNTUH. 65 faculty members are recognized as eligible supervisors by JNTUH. Institute has recognized
as SIRO by DSIR, which helps in procuring the research equipment with exemptions.
In B.Tech and M.Tech. programmes, project-based learning is introduced to enhance and develop the
essential research skills, such as critical thinking, and problem-solving abilities. VNR VJIET maintains
state-of-the-art research facilities with 128 academic and research labs equipped with the latest
technologies. The institution regularly updates these facilities to ensure relevance and up-to-date
resources. The key equipment includes a 100-tonne loading frame, computerized diesel engine, six-axis
industrial robot arm, 3D printers, spectrum analyser, PLC and GPU workstations.
The innovation and incubation eco system is in place in the Institute. Encouragement for the innovation
starts with “My Big Idea Competition”, where students/faculty present their ideas. Institute encourages
the good ideas by providing seed money. Once the idea is realized as prototype, then all such ideas are
exhibited in the Open House- A Project Expo. The prototypes which have commercial viability are
supported with an initial funding of Rs. 5.00 Lakhs and Incubation space is allotted in VJ Hub which is
registered, under Section 8 Company, and located in the campus. Similarly, to encourage the faculty and
students towards Innovation, the institute has established Institute Innovation Cell (IIC).
The institution is curious about quality and originality of the research and innovations. In this regard
Page 67/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
institute employs software’s for plagiarism detection (Turnitin), Grammarly for technical writing,
Derwent Innovation for patentability search and provides access to reputed and renowned online
journals.
Faculty are incentivized to engage in research and consulting work to make societal impact projects and
drive transdisciplinary initiatives. Furthermore, faculty have been provided an amount of Rs.10,69,870/-
towards incentives for presenting research papers at national and international conferences/seminars
during the assessment period.
File Description Document
Minutes of the Governing Council/ View Document
Syndicate/Board of Management related to
research promotion policy adoption
Any additional information View Document
URL of Policy document on promotion of View Document
research uploaded on website
3.1.2
The institution provides seed money to its teachers for research (average per year, INR in Lakhs)
Response: 25.76
3.1.2.1 The amount of seed money provided by institution to its faculty year-wise during the last
five years (INR in lakhs).
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
57.869 13.580 21.856 27.573 7.9467
Page 68/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Document
Minutes of the relevant bodies of the Institution View Document
List of teachers receiving grant and details of grant View Document
received
Budget and expenditure statements signed by the View Document
Finance Officer indicating seed money provided
and utilized
Any additional information View Document
3.1.3
Percentage of teachers awarded national / international fellowship for advanced studies/research
during the last five years
Response: 3.84
3.1.3.1 The number of teachers awarded national / international fellowship for advanced studies /
research year wise during last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
10 16 23 8 9
File Description Document
List of teachers and their international fellowship View Document
details
e-copies of the award letters of the teachers View Document
Any additional information View Document
3.2 Resource Mobilization for Research
3.2.1
Grants received from Government and non-governmental agencies for research projects,
endowments, Chairs in the institution during the last five years (INR in Lakhs)
Response: 375.05
3.2.1.1 Total Grants from Government and non-governmental agencies for research projects ,
endowments, Chairs in the institution during the last five years (INR in Lakhs)
Page 69/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
33.61 108.1 91.64 113.27 28.43
File Description Document
List of project and grant details View Document
e-copies of the grant award letters for research View Document
projects sponsored by government and non-
government
Any additional information View Document
3.2.2
Percentage of teachers having research projects during the last five years
Response: 4.42
3.2.2.1 Number of teachers having research projects during the last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
15 25 22 8 6
File Description Document
Names of teachers having research projects View Document
Any additional information View Document
3.2.3
Percentage of teachers recognised as research guides
Response: 10.56
3.2.3.1 Number of teachers recognized as research guides
Response: 38
Page 70/157 17-04-2024 03:44:27
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Document
Upload copies of the letter of the university View Document
recognizing faculty as research guides
3.2.4
Average percentage of departments having Research projects funded by government and non-
government agencies during the last five years
Response: 71.5
3.2.4.1 Number of departments having Research projects funded by government and non-
government agencies during the last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
7 8 7 5 3
3.2.4.2 Number of departments offering academic programes
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
10 8 8 8 8
File Description Document
Supporting document from Funding Agency View Document
List of research projects and funding details View Document
Any additional information View Document
3.3 Innovation Ecosystem
3.3.1
Institution has created an eco system for innovations, creation and transfer of knowledge
supported by dedicated centers for research, entrepreneurship, community orientation, Incubation
etc.
Response:
The Institution has created an eco-system for research and innovation by setting up Research and
Page 71/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Consultancy Centre (RCC), VJ Hub, Entrepreneurship Development Cell (EDC), Institute Innovation
Cell (IIC) and Industry Institute Interaction Cell (IIIC) for creation and transfer of knowledge.
The RCC provides a platform to foster research and consultancy of world class innovations and provide
the latest technologies and infrastructure to all the students and faculty with unlimited opportunities. The
Institute has 47 ongoing and completed research projects worth of Rs. 388.83 lakh Lakhs funded by
SERB, DST, UGC, AICTE, DRDO, BIRAC, MeItY, DAE, ISRO, JNTUH(TEQIP-III) and TSCOST
during this assessment period. Other grants-in-aid received is Rs.266.41Lakh for upgradation of
Research Labs, development of the infrastructure, enhancement of technical skills of faculty and
students, organizing the conferences, etc.
The Research Laboratories and Infrastructure of the Institution which facilitate Research and
Development activities includes:
Virtual Reality and Real Time Computing
Virtual Instrumentation
RFID & WSN
Mobile Vision
IOT
3D Printing
VNRVJIET has established the following Centres of Research to catalyse and facilitate, to create, and
sustain capabilities and competitiveness in consulting, advice, and research:
Disaster Mitigation
Renewable Energy Systems
Data Science
Networks and Security
Internet of Things
Joining Technology
Solar Energy Materials
Micro-Cars
Nano Science and Technology
Education Technology
The faculty are working on several research projects in collaboration with National Research Institutions
like University of Hyderabad, IIIT-Hyderabad, NIT-Warangal, NIT-Meghalaya, ARCI Hyderabad and
PRIST University.
Vignana Jyothi Foundation for Entrepreneurial Excellence (VJ Hub) is a Not-for-Profit Company
registered under Section 8 of Companies Act (2013), India and is located at the Campus. VJ Hub offers
Pre-incubation, Virtual incubation, Co-incubation, and Physical incubation support to Start-ups. VJ Hub
has supported over 25 startups, some of which were founded by students, alumni, and faculty members
of VNRVJIET, and 4 startups have been graduated from VJ Hub. VJ Hub has been collaborating at
different levels with T-Hub, WE-Hub, Bala Vikasa Centre for Social and Responsible Business, TiE, J-
Hub, ALEAP, IIT-Hyderabad’s iTIC. It has provided over 60 internships and 10 full-time positions since
2017.
Page 72/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
The Institution has established an IPR cell to cater all IP related activities. The Institute funds the entire
patent application process. The Cell has procured “Derwent Innovation” software to do the patentability
search. The ED Cell of VNRVJIET was established in August 2006 with a grant of 8 lakhs from AICTE.
Its mission is to organize various entrepreneurship related activities and to create awareness among the
students and faculty on entrepreneurship. The events organized are: Indian School of Business one year
Certificate Program on Technology Entrepreneurship - 5, My Big Idea Competitions -8, Expert Talks /
seminars - 37, Workshops - 38, Entrepreneurship Fest ECFICIO(E-Week) - 3, Hackathons - 7, Industrial
Visits - 23, Entrepreneurship Motivation Programs and Awareness Camps -22, Innovation Fair-1, and
World IP Day-4 during the assessment period. A total of 10,483 students have been benefited through
these activities during the assessment period.
Industry Institute Interaction (IIIC) cell provides a platform for the students and faculty members to be
aware of skill sets expected by the industry. IIIC facilitates students and faculty to interact with industry
in all possible ways such as internships, industrial visits, content delivery, expert lectures, in-plant
training, exchange of resource personnel, consultancy, collaborative R&D projects etc. with the spirit of
mutual benefit.
File Description Document
Upload any additional information View Document
Paste link for additional information View Document
3.3.2
Number of workshops/seminars conducted on Research methodology, Intellectual Property Rights
(IPR),entrepreneurship, skill development during the last five years.
Response: 156
3.3.2.1 Total number of workshops/seminars conducted on Research methodology, Intellectual
Property Rights (IPR),entrepreneurship, skill development year-wise during the last five years.
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
28 24 31 31 42
File Description Document
Report of the event View Document
List of workshops/seminars during last 5 years View Document
Any additional information View Document
Page 73/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
3.4 Research Publications and Awards
3.4.1
The Institution ensures implementation of its stated Code of Ethics for research through the
following:
1. Inclusion of research ethics in the research methodology course work
2. Presence of Ethics committee
3. Plagiarism check through software
4. Research Advisory Committee
Response: A. All of the above
File Description Document
Any additional information View Document
Link for additional information View Document
3.4.2
Number of Ph.D’s registered per teacher (as per the data given w.r.t recognized Ph.D guides/
supervisors provided at 3.2.3 metric) during the last five years
Response: 1.32
3.4.2.1 How many Ph.Ds are registered within last 5 years
Response: 50
3.4.2.2 Number of teachers recognized as guides during the last five years
Response: 38
File Description Document
List of PhD scholars and their details like name of View Document
the guide , title of thesis, year of award etc
URL to the research page on HEI web site View Document
3.4.3
Number of research papers per teachers in the Journals notified on UGC website during the last
five years
Page 74/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Response: 2.91
3.4.3.1 Number of research papers in the Journals notified on UGC website during the last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
291 205 244 144 117
File Description Document
List of research papers by title, author, department, View Document
name and year of publication
Any additional information View Document
3.4.4
Number of books and chapters in edited volumes / books published per teacher during the last five
years
Response: 3.36
3.4.4.1 Total number of books and chapters in edited volumes/books published and papers in
national/ international conference proceedings year-wise during last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
339 302 212 137 163
File Description Document
List books and chapters in edited volumes / books View Document
published
Any additional information View Document
3.4.5
Bibliometrics of the publications during the last five years based on average citation index in
Scopus/ Web of Science or PubMed
Response: 4.58
Page 75/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Document
Bibliometrics of the publications during the last View Document
five years
3.4.6
Bibliometrics of the publications during the last five years based on Scopus/ Web of Science - h-
index of the Institution
Response: 28.5
File Description Document
Bibiliometrics of publications based on Scopus/ View Document
Web of Science - h-index of the Institution
3.5 Consultancy
3.5.1
Revenue generated from consultancy and corporate training during the last five years (INR in
Lakhs).
Response: 144.49
3.5.1.1 Total amount generated from consultancy and corporate training year-wise during the last
five years (INR in lakhs).
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
50.964 34.250 19.795 37.805 1.671
File Description Document
List of consultants and revenue generated by them View Document
Audited statements of accounts indicating the View Document
revenue generated through consultancy and
corporate training
Any additional information View Document
3.5.2
Total amount spent on developing facilities, training teachers and staff for undertaking
Page 76/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
consultancy during the last five years (INR in Lakhs).
Response: 254.83
3.5.2.1 Total amount spent on developing facilities, training teachers and staff for undertaking
consultancy during the last five years (INR in Lakhs)
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
77.73 70.34 74.18 23.74 8.837
File Description Document
List of training programmes, teachers and staff View Document
trained for undertaking consultancy
List of facilities and staff available for undertaking View Document
consultancy
Audited statements of accounts indicating the View Document
expenditure incurred on developing facilities and
training teachers and staff for undertaking
consultancy
Any additional information View Document
3.6 Extension Activities
3.6.1
Extension activities are carried out in the neighbourhood community, sensitising students to social
issues, for their holistic development, and impact thereof during the last five years
Response:
VNRVJIET Mission is to produce technically competent and socially responsible engineers. With this
mission the institution believes that all rounded personality of students is only possible with exploring
the students to real time social issues. The students are motivated to be proactive in solving these social
issues through empathy and by providing technical solutions through societal impact projects. Some
socio technical solution provided by the student are, AI based COVID-19 diagnosis using chest X-ray
image, Development of smart seed sowing mechanism for villages, Identification of groundwater
recharge potential zones in Pragathi Nagar by using Arc-GIS software etc..
The Institution has a total of 33 clubs and chapters which are active student bodies providing a venue for
indulging in co-circular and extracurricular extension and outreach activities. Among these NSS(National
Service Scheme), VNRSF(VNR Student Force), AOL(Art of Living), CSI, TEDx, Literacy clubs and
dramatic clubs directly address the extension activities. 85% students’ are participated in 183 activities
Page 77/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
conducted by all clubs and chapters.
About 200 student volunteers in two NSS units conducted100 activities of State and Central Govt.
programmes like Harithaharam, Swatch Bharath, Clean India, Digital awareness programs, Road safety
awareness, Rashtriya Ektha Divas, UBA programs. Free health camps, Blood donation camps, Eye
testing camps, Career guidance, etc., 1201 units of blood were donated to Thalassemia patients. Around
1000 plant saplings were distributed and planted. Mr. Anil Kumar got admission in IIT-Khargpur for
M.Tech programme and Mr. Mohan joined Sports Authority of India Bengaluru through career guidance
program. Under SAARADHI programme events like SOCH- a social idea competition, I am Not a
HERO-where unsung heroes of the society were called to explain their journey, were conducted. NSS
also has RED Ribbon club under which AIDS awareness campaigns were organized. Under ECHO Club
Green-Campus activities were conducted.
VNRSF is an NGO started in collaboration with SF, a Student Force organization which concentrates on
youth empowerment with programmes like SPARSH, Dikshuchi, Jagruthi to bring career awareness for
school and college students.
Art of Living Club of VNRVJIET started with a motto to develop leadership skills and personality
development for students and staff through yoga classes and YES Workshops, and Mind Managing
Sessions. FABS(For a Bright Smile) was organized for waste management awareness and tons of e-
waste and plastic waste were collected and sent for recycling center. Water purifier worth Rs.50000/- was
donated to an orphanage.
CSI and LITERARY CLUBS OF VNRVJIET conducted events like Go green sessions to develop
communication skills among students and visited nearby Government schools and taught Basic English
language.
During Covid-19 all the social clubs of VNRVJIET participated in Covid relief works like distribution of
medicines and groceries, and all the faculty and staff contributed one-day salary to help Covid victims.
The Institution, with the help of IQAC has developed Post Lockdown Restart Manual© as a guidance for
re-opening the Institution for all the stakeholders indicating safety measures. The manual is distributed
among the Peer Institutions across India and to the State Govt. of Telangana. Appreciation is received for
this extension activity.
File Description Document
Upload Any additional information View Document
Paste link for additional information View Document
3.6.2
Number of awards and recognition received by the Institution, its teachers and students for
extension activities from Government / Government recognised bodies during last five years
Page 78/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Response: 3
3.6.2.1 Total number of awards and recognition received for extension activities from Government/
Government recognised bodies year-wise during the last five years.
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
1 0 1 1 0
File Description Document
Number of awards for extension activities in last 5 View Document
year
e-copy of the award letters View Document
3.6.3
Number of extension and outreach programs conducted by the institution through NSS/NCC,
Government and Government recognised bodies during the last five years
Response: 102
3.6.3.1 Number of extension and outreach programs conducted by the institution through
NSS/NCC, Government and Government recognised bodies during the last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
20 16 20 26 20
File Description Document
Reports of the event organized View Document
Number of extension and outreach Programmes View Document
conducted with industry, community etc for the last
five years
3.6.4
Average percentage of students participating in extension activities listed at 3.6.3 above during the
last five years
Response: 55.65
Page 79/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
3.6.4.1 Total number of students participating in extension activities listed at 3.6.3 above year-wise
during the last five years.
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
3226 2097 3015 3064 3838
File Description Document
Reports of the event View Document
Average percentage of students participating in View Document
extension activities with Govt or NGO etc
3.7 Collaboration
3.7.1
Number of Collaborative activities per year for research/ faculty exchange/ student exchange/
internship/ on –the-job training/ project work
Response: 113.2
3.7.1.1 Total number of Collaborative activities per year for research/ faculty exchange/ student
exchange/ internship/ on –the-job training/ project work
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
251 125 80 65 45
File Description Document
Number of Collaborative activities for research, View Document
faculty etc
Copies of collaboration View Document
Any additional information View Document
3.7.2
Number of functional MoUs with institutions of national, international importance, other
institutions, industries, corporate houses etc. during the last five years (only functional MoUs with
ongoing activities to be considered)
Page 80/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Response: 69
3.7.2.1 Number of functional MoUs with institutions of national, international importance, other
Institutions, industries, corporate houses etc. year wise during last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
22 6 13 14 14
File Description Document
e-copies of the MoUs with institution/ industry/ View Document
corporate house
Details of functional MoUs with institutions of View Document
national, international importance, other
Institutions etc during the last five years
Any additional information View Document
Page 81/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Criterion 4 - Infrastructure and Learning Resources
4.1 Physical Facilities
4.1.1
The Institution has adequate infrastructure and physical facilities for teaching- learning. viz.,
classrooms, laboratories, computing equipment etc.
Response:
The VNRVJIET spreads over an area of 26.85 acres, with a built-up area of 76,028 square meters. Every
department is well-equipped with the necessary facilities and amenities to create an effective teaching
and learning environment. The campus boasts 109 classrooms, 4 seminar halls, 2 auditoriums,
128 academic laboratories, 10 research laboratories, and 3 workshops over and above the statutory bodies
specified requirements. Wi-Fi coverage spans the entire campus, facilitating e-learning opportunities. All
the laboratories are equipped with the latest equipment to meet the curriculum and research requirements.
The campus is adorned with well-maintained greenery, including trees, lawns, and various sculptures.
The institution firmly believes that adequate infrastructural and physical facilities are essential for
academic progress among both faculty and students. Since its establishment in 1995, the institution has
consistently prioritized infrastructural development, whether it be physical buildings, machinery,
software, ICT, library and information resource center or other learning resources. All the classrooms,
seminar halls, and laboratories are equipped with ICT facilities, while computer labs are furnished with
licensed and open-source software.
The institution provides ample computing facilities for effective teaching and learning processes, to both
faculty and students. As of the academic year 2021-2022, the institute possesses 2770 computers and the
student-to-computer ratio is maintained at a favorable 2:1. In addition the institution has 106 printers,
licensed system software, open-source system software, licensed application software, open-source
application software, 1124 Mbps of internet bandwidth, 154 secured Wi-Fi access points, and 24 servers.
The institute has a Library and information resource center, digital library and department libraries
equipped with modern facilities. It houses an extensive collection of 82,931 volumes and 17,585 titles.
The reference section includes books, encyclopedias, handbooks, and directories for quick reference. The
library subscribes to e-journals and it has memberships in professional societies. The institute spent Rs.
218 Lakhs for learning resources during the last five years.
The institute has exclusive hostels for Boys and Girls. The students are accommodated in 12 storied
modern buildings with all necessary facilities like Wi-Fi, computer labs, GYM, YOGA room, stationary,
cafeteria and play fields to facilitate effective learning and all-round development.
In addition to the hostel facilities, the college operates 30 buses that provide convenient transportation to
students and staff from various places in the city. Canteen service is available in different places on the
campus premises. It serves nutritious food with hygiene and cleanliness at low cost.
To ensure uninterrupted power supply to laboratories, classrooms and hostels, the institute is equipped
with three generators: one with a capacity of 500KVA, 250KVA, and 125KVA. The hostel is also
Page 82/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
equipped with two generators, 250KVA and 125KVA. Solar power 765kWp is installed in campus and
hostel.
Moreover, the institute provides a range of infrastructure facilities to support academic, co-curricular,
and extra-curricular activities. An exclusive "Student Activity Center" hosts all professional and cultural
clubs. Additional amenities such as an ATM, dispensary and stationary store are also available on
campus, ensuring the convenience and well-being of students and staff.
The institute has spent an amount of Rs.9405.56 Lakhs for infrastructure development and
Rs.10,829.30 Lakhs for the maintenance of academic and Physical facilities during the last five years.
File Description Document
Upload Any additional information View Document
Paste link for additional information View Document
4.1.2
The institution has adequate facilities for cultural activities, yoga, games and sports (indoor &
outdoor); (gymnasium, yoga centre, auditorium, etc.,)
Response:
VNRVJIET's commitment to provide adequate facilities for cultural activities, yoga, games and sports
demonstrates its recognition of the holistic development and well-roundedness of individuals. These
facilities go beyond academics, allowing students and staff to engage in various activities that contribute
to personal growth, exploration of interests, a healthy lifestyle, and the development of essential life
skills.
Cultural Activities:
The institution recognizes the importance of cultural activities and provides adequate facilities to
promote artistic expression, creativity, and the appreciation of different cultures. These activities play a
significant role in enhancing the overall experience and well-being of students and staff.
Various student clubs have been established, including the Literary club, Crescendo-The Music club,
Creative arts club, Livewire-The dance club, Dramatics club, Nritya Tarang – The classical dance club,
Photography & short film shooting club. Students actively engage in these clubs, practicing and
participating in extracurricular activities. They also take part in national-level competitions, where they
have achieved success by winning awards and prizes.
Student Activity Centre (SAC) is an exclusive facility with a built-up area of 525sq.m. to host both
professional and cultural clubs. The SAC is managed by the students, to design diverse activities under
the respective cultural clubs and professional chapters. The institution has spent Rs.166.35 Lakhs to
promote cultural and professional activities and infrastructure.
Page 83/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Yoga Centre:
The institution provides a dedicated Yoga Centre with a trained Yoga teacher to guide both students and
faculty. Practicing yoga not only promotes physical well-being but also fosters personal transformation.
The institution celebrates the International Day of Yoga, on June 21st every year. On that day the
institute conducts a special event where all students and faculty actively participate. The best performers
are rewarded to encourage further engagement and participation, on account of the International Day of
Yoga.
Games and Sports (Indoor & Outdoor)
With the existing games and sports facilities, VNRVJIET organizes All India Inter University Level
Tournaments in various sports, including Athletics, Badminton, Basketball, Billiards, Cricket, Football,
Handball, Hockey, Kabaddi, Kho-Kho, Table Tennis, Tennikoit, Tennis, Throwball, Volleyball, and
Yoga. The institution has invested Rs.142.2 Lakhs in sports infrastructure and activities to support these
endeavors. Qualified trainers provide state-of-the-art training, and students have achieved notable
success, winning medals, and accolades in national and international tournaments.
Gymnasium:
An exclusive gymnasium is available at the KODE VENKATADRI CHOWDARY SPORTS
COMPLEX (KVC sports complex) for students and faculty. This facility caters to maintain physical
fitness and overall health of students and faculty. The Gym is equipped with 21 modern Independent
Stations.
Auditorium:
The institute has five auditoriums, out of which one is air conditioned with a seating capacity of 500.The
open-air auditorium has a capacity of 10,000 is used to organize Induction program, Cultural Fest, Sports
fest etc. The other three are used for showcasing the students’ professional and cultural talents.
File Description Document
Upload any additional information View Document
Geotagged pictures View Document
Paste link for additional information View Document
4.1.3
Percentage of classrooms and seminar halls with ICT- enabled facilities such as smart class, LMS,
etc. (Data for the latest completed academic year)
Response: 100
Page 84/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
4.1.3.1 Number of classrooms and seminar halls with ICT facilities
Response: 113
File Description Document
Upload any additional information View Document
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
4.1.4
Average percentage of expenditure for infrastructure augmentation excluding salary during the
last five years (INR in Lakhs)
Response: 46.17
4.1.4.1 Expenditure for infrastructure augmentation, excluding salary year-wise during last five
years (INR in lakhs)
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
4553.99 879.87 615.19 365.74 2990.77
File Description Document
Upload Details of Expenditure , excluding salary View Document
during the last five years
Upload audited utilization statements View Document
Upload any additional information View Document
4.2 Library as a Learning Resource
4.2.1
Library is automated using Integrated Library Management System (ILMS)
Response:
The institution has a well-equipped Library Information Resource Centre(LIRC) with various learning
resources enabling the stakeholders to access in physical or online mode. The library has a collection of
82,931 volumes and 17,585 titles. The library is a member of DELNET, N-LIST which helps to provide
hassle-free e-learning. The books are shelved as per the Dewey Decimal Classification scheme to
facilitate easy location of the books by Open Access System. The institute spent Rs. 218 Lakhs for
learning resources during the period 2017-2022. Apart from Central library, Department libraries are also
Page 85/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
maintained with latest books as per their requirements.
The library also maintains a Book Bank for SC/ST students which provides an opportunity to own
additional books offered by the Social Welfare Department, Govt. of Telangana. So far, 2908 books are
issued to SC students and 172 books to ST students. The library maintains an EPS Book bank to issue
four additional books for the economically poor students. The library OPAC (Online Public Access
Catalogue) provides information of the library collection online. The library OPAC is accessible with the
URL http://vnr-vjietopac.2cqrkoha.com/ . The library has subscription to e-Books of Lakshmi
publications, Videeya Books, and N-LIST. The library is under CCTV surveillance.
Integrated Library Management System (ILMS):
The institution library has automation software Libsys (DEC 2006- MAY2022) using barcode
technology and KOHA software (JUNE 2022) using RFID technology for Book- issue/renewal, author
search, title search. The KOHA software helps to check the availability of book remotely. KOHA
software is also accessible on mobile app (M-LIBRARY) from user’s smartphone. The students and
faculty access the library collection remotely. The students and faculty make use of library facility even
after working hours/ holidays. Automation infrastructure with RFID technology has been established
with an amount of Rs. 16.5 Lakhs in 2022.
Digital Library
The digital library consists of computers connected with an internet facility. It opens from 8 AM to 8 PM
along with the Central Library. In this, the students can access the subscribed online content, NPTEL
video lectures, online mock tests, etc.
The library has been subscribing to the following journal packages with an average cost of Rs. 22 Lakhs
per annum, to facilitate the students and faculty with contemporary engineering content. The mentioned
e- journal packages are accessible through e-library KNIMBUS software and m-library mobile app.
ASCE: http://ascelibrary.org
ASME: http://asmelibrary.org
IEEE -ASPP-CSDL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/
Science Direct (Elsevier): http://sciencedirect.com/
Springer: http://link.springer.com/
Remote access
The library provides remote access to e-Textbooks, e- journals, previous question papers, lecture notes to
students and staff through KNIMBUS platform. Rs 2.2 Lakhs is spent every year for maintaining this
facility. The students and the faculty can login in with URL: https://vnrvjiet.knimbus.com. This facility is
availed by doing self-registration with institute’s mail ID.
The library encompasses a Reading room and a reference section with reprographic and scanning facility.
Page 86/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
The library has subscription to six English and two Telugu daily newspapers which helps the
stakeholders to update on the current affairs.
File Description Document
Upload any additional information View Document
Paste Link for additional information View Document
4.2.2
Institution has access to the following:
1. e-journals
2. e-ShodhSindhu
3. Shodhganga Membership
4. e-books
5. Databases
6. Remote access to e-resources
Response: A. Any 4 or more of the above
File Description Document
Upload any additional information View Document
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
Details of subscriptions like e-journals, e-books , e- View Document
ShodhSindhu, Shodhganga Membership etc
4.2.3
Average annual expenditure for purchase of books/ e-books and subscription to journals/e-
journals during the last five years (INR in Lakhs)
Response: 43.49
4.2.3.1 Annual expenditure of purchase of books/e-books and subscription to journals/e- journals
year wise during last five years (INR in Lakhs)
Page 87/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
43.44 44.19 38.51 42.83 48.46
File Description Document
Details of annual expenditure for purchase of and View Document
subscription to journals/e-journals during the last
five years
Audited statements of accounts View Document
Any additional information View Document
4.2.4
Percentage per day usage of library by teachers and students ( foot falls and login data for online
access) during the latest completed academic year
Response: 15.47
4.2.4.1 Number of teachers and students using library per day over last one year
Response: 1049
File Description Document
Details of library usage by teachers and students View Document
Any additional information View Document
4.3 IT Infrastructure
4.3.1
Institution has an IT policy covering wi-fi, cyber security, etc., and allocated budget for updating its
IT facilities
Response:
The Campus Network Control Centre (CNCC), in the institution has been established in the year 2008
with a focus on reliability, performance, and cost efficiency of internet. The CNCC, supported by
advanced equipment, robust security measures, and comprehensive Wi-Fi connectivity, ensures a reliable
and secure network infrastructure within the institute. The DHCP server simplifies IP address
assignment, while the FTP server enables efficient file storage and remote access. The implementation of
the highly secure Supermassive Sonic WALL 9200 firewall guarantees cybersecurity. The video
surveillance system and digital signages contribute to campus safety and effective communication. The
Page 88/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
periodical updates and maintenance of these systems are carried out by qualified in-house personnel,
ensuring optimal performance and security. An amount of Rs.191 Lakhs is spent for maintenance and
upgradation of IT facilities during the last 5 years.
2017-18 Escan Antivirus software
Internet leased line
Increased Surveillance Cameras and DVR
Enhanced the Power backup
2018-19 Increased Surveillance cameras
Upgradation of Switches
2019-20 Upgradation of Switches
2020-21 Sonic Firewall
Enhancement of switches
Aruba Wi-Fi switches
Surveillance cameras
Digital signage
2021-22 Internet bandwidth increased to 1Gbps
Enhanced switches and surveillance
Campus Network Infrastructure:
The IT policy is in place for effective maintenance and upgradation of the network infrastructure. The
internet includes 139 CISCO switches, 154 wireless access points, ensuring comprehensive Wi-Fi
coverage across the campus. In addition to the network infrastructure, regular updates and maintenance
of network are performed by an exclusive team of 8 qualified in-house personnels with CISCO certified
team lead, to ensure the firewall's effectiveness and to address emerging security concerns.
Cyber Security:
To ensure robust security, a highly secured Supermassive SonicWALL 9200 firewall has been
established and it focuses on cybersecurity. Stringent security measures are in place to protect the
systems and data from unauthorized access and potential threats & virus. Different policies are
configured based on specific requirements.
Wi-Fi:
Wi-Fi connectivity is available to all students and staff. Intelligent access points - Aruba are installed at
various locations throughout the campus. These access points enable seamless wireless connectivity,
allowing users to access network resources from anywhere within the campus premises.
DHCP Server:
For efficient IP address assignment, a DHCP server is utilized. This server dynamically assigns IP
addresses to end systems, eliminating the need for manual configuration and simplifying network
management. It ensures that all devices connected to the network have a unique and valid IP address.
FTP Server:
An FTP (File Transfer Protocol) server is available to facilitate file storage and remote access. This
Page 89/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
server serves as a central repository for software and allows authorized users to remotely access and
retrieve files as needed. It enhances collaboration and enables convenient sharing of resources across the
campus network.
Surveillance System & Digital Signage:
The entire campus is under video surveillance with 425 cameras. This comprehensive surveillance
system provides continuous monitoring of critical areas, enhancing campus security and deterring
potential security breaches or incidents. Additionally, 17 digital signages placed at major junctions
display essential information, including upcoming events, campus news, photographs of recent events
organised, and awardee photographs. These signages operate during working hours, keeping the campus
community well-informed and engaged.
File Description Document
Upload any additional information View Document
Paste link for additional information View Document
4.3.2
Student - Computer ratio (Data for the latest completed academic year)
Response: 2.32
File Description Document
Upload any additional information View Document
Student - computer ratio View Document
4.3.3
Bandwidth of internet connection in the Institution.
Response: ?50 MBPS
File Description Document
Upload any additional information View Document
Details of available bandwidth of internet View Document
connection in the Institution
4.3.4
Institution has the following Facilities for e-content development
Page 90/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
1.Media centre
2.Audio visual centre
3.Lecture Capturing System(LCS)
4.Mixing equipments and softwares for editing
Response: A. All of the above
File Description Document
Upload Additional information View Document
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
4.4 Maintenance of Campus Infrastructure
4.4.1
Average percentage expenditure incurred on maintenance of physical facilities and academic
support facilities excluding salary component during the last five years
Response: 6.18
4.4.1.1 Expenditure incurred on maintenance of physical facilities and academic support facilities
excluding salary component year wise during the last five years (INR in lakhs)
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
148.24 73.66 84.53 278.67 255.82
File Description Document
Upload any additional information View Document
Details about assigned budget and expenditure on View Document
physical facilities and academic facilities
Audited statements of accounts View Document
4.4.2
There are established systems and procedures for maintaining and utilizing physical, academic and
support facilities - laboratory, library, sports complex, computers, classrooms etc.
Response:
Page 91/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
VNR VJIET Procedure Manual – “Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) Manual” comprises the
procedures for maintaining and utilizing physical, academic and support facilities. The manual provides
guidance for procurement and maintenance of infrastructure facilities. The institution's academic,
research, and administrative infrastructure is maintained up to date in accordance with SOP manual. The
SOP manual is updated on a regular basis which includes the following:
SOP for maintenance of Classrooms, Seminar halls, Auditorium,
SOP for maintenance of Laboratories, Library.
SOP for maintenance of Computers and Networking
SOP for Sports facilities
SOP for Civil maintenance
SOP for Mechanical maintenance
SOP for Electrical equipment maintenance
SOP for EPABX and telephones
SOP for Stock verification
The SOP manual for maintaining and utilizing physical, academic and support facilities is made available
on the website.
All the classrooms and seminar halls in the institution are ICT enabled. The devices are maintained on a
regular basis. The exclusive personnel are recruited to constantly monitor and keep up the usage of the
systems. Additional ICT equipment is procured and kept ready for the replacement while the damaged
one is sent for repair. The new requirements for classrooms and ICT facilities are identified before the
start of academic session. The same are purchased at central level by the section through purchase
committee.
Laboratories are well equipped and maintained regularly without interrupting the academic schedules.
The in-house maintenance and repairs are addressed by the respective department technical staff.
Upgradation and maintenance of the laboratories is identified by the HoDs through lab in charges and lab
technicians. The purchase of the laboratory equipment for academic, research and consultancy needs are
put forth to the purchase committee and as per the budget allotments and purchase policy, procurement is
done. Under Annual maintenance contracts, all the equipment is regularly maintained. Asset insurance is
made regularly for all the equipment in departments and sections.
Qualified and trained supporting staff from the CNCC maintain the computers and servers. Campus
LAN, Wi-Fi, firewall, CCTVs, digital signage boards, etc., are also maintained by CNCC. The
requirement for new computing equipment, networking in labs, etc for academic and research activities
are identified by the HoDs, Section heads and is submitted to the CNCC through proper channel.
Procurement is made as per the purchase policy of the institution.
Library resources are updated on yearly basis as per the changes in the curriculum. Inputs from the
student and faculty are taken in the prescribed format for books, journals to be procured other than
suggested readings. Library committee discusses and approves the procurement of learning resources and
purchase is initiated as per the institute purchase policy.
The sports, fitness equipment, ground and various courts are supervised and maintained by the Physical
Director and trainers of Sports section. Maintenance of the gym and sports equipment is taken up under
the supervision of the physical director. The playgrounds, gym, indoor stadium is made ready and kept
Page 92/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
up to the mark for all sports activity.
The civil, mechanical, and electrical maintenance are taken care by the exclusive personnels headed by
the site engineer appointed in the estate office. Cleaning of the campus including the academic and
administrative buildings is done daily in the morning before the regular class work begins and in the
evening with the help of the housekeeping team and supervisors.
File Description Document
Upload any additional information View Document
Page 93/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Criterion 5 - Student Support and Progression
5.1 Student Support
5.1.1
Average percentage of students benefited by scholarships and freeships provided by the
Government during last five years
Response: 50.36
5.1.1.1 Number of students benefited by scholarships and free ships provided by the institution,
Government and non-government bodies, industries, individuals, philanthropists during the last
five years (other than students receiving scholarships under the government schemes for reserved
categories)
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
3280 2879 2667 2725 2453
File Description Document
upload self attested letter with the list of students View Document
sanctioned scholarships
Upload any additional information View Document
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
Average percentage of students benefited by View Document
scholarships and freeships provided by the
Government during the last five years
5.1.2
Average percentage of students benefited by scholarships, freeships, etc. provided by the
institution and non-government agencies during the last five years
Response: 4.45
5.1.2.1 Number of students benefited by scholarships and free ships provided by the institution,
Government and non-government bodies, industries, individuals, philanthropists during the last
five years (other than students receiving scholarships under the government schemes for reserved
categories)
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
192 176 207 269 360
Page 94/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Document
Upload any additional information View Document
Number of students benefited by scholarships and View Document
freeships besides government schemes in last 5
years
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
5.1.3
Following Capacity development and skills enhancement activities are organised for improving
students capability
1. Soft skills
2. Language and communication skills
3. Life skills (Yoga, physical fitness, health and hygiene)
4. Awareness of trends in technology
Response: A. All of the above
File Description Document
Details of capability enhancement and View Document
development schemes
Any additional information View Document
5.1.4
Average percentage of students benefited by career counseling and guidance for competitive
examinations as offered by the Institution during the last five years.
Response: 85.64
5.1.4.1 Number of students benefitted by guidance for competitive examinations and career
counselling offered by the institution year wise during last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
5060 4274 4011 5246 5027
Page 95/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Document
Number of students benefited by guidance for View Document
competitive examinations and career counselling
during the last five years
Any additional information View Document
5.1.5
The institution adopts the following for redressal of student grievances including sexual
harassment and ragging cases
1. Implementation of guidelines of statutory/regulatory bodies
2. Organisation wide awareness and undertakings on policies with zero tolerance
3. Mechanisms for submission of online/offline students’ grievances
4. Timely redressal of the grievances through appropriate committees
Response: A. All of the above
File Description Document
Upload any additional information View Document
Minutes of the meetings of student redressal View Document
committee, prevention of sexual harassment
committee and Anti Ragging committee
Details of student grievances including sexual View Document
harassment and ragging cases
5.2 Student Progression
5.2.1
Average percentage of placement of outgoing students during the last five years
Response: 77.07
5.2.1.1 Number of outgoing students placed year - wise during the last five years.
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
1088 1038 782 934 813
Page 96/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Document
Upload any additional information View Document
Self attested list of students placed View Document
Details of student placement during the last five View Document
years
5.2.2
Percentage of student progression to higher education (previous graduating batch).
Response: 7.4
5.2.2.1 Number of outgoing student progressing to higher education.
Response: 98
File Description Document
Upload supporting data for student/alumni View Document
Details of student progression to higher education View Document
5.2.3
Average percentage of students qualifying in state/national/ international level examinations
during the last five years (eg: IIT-JAM/CLAT/ NET/SLET/GATE/ GMAT/CAT/GRE/ TOEFL/
Civil Services/State government examinations, etc.)
Response: 100
5.2.3.1 Number of students qualifying in state/ national/ international level examinations (eg:
IIT/JAM/ NET/ SLET/ GATE/ GMAT/CAT/GRE/ TOEFL/ Civil Services/ State government
examinations, etc.)) year-wise during last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
115 104 41 61 60
5.2.3.2 Number of students appearing in state/ national/ international level examinations (eg:
IIT/JAM/ NET / SLET/ GATE/ GMAT/CAT,GRE/ TOEFL/ Civil Services/ State government
examinations) year-wise during last five years
Page 97/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
115 104 41 61 60
File Description Document
Upload supporting data for student/alumni View Document
Number of students qualifying in state/ national/ View Document
international level examinations during the last five
years
Any additional information View Document
5.3 Student Participation and Activities
5.3.1
Number of awards/medals won by students for outstanding performance in sports/cultural
activities at inter-university/state/national / international level (award for a team event should be
counted as one) during the last five years.
Response: 251
5.3.1.1 Number of awards/medals won by students for outstanding performance in sports / cultural
activities at inter-university / state / national / international events (award for a team event should
be counted as one) year - wise during the last five years.
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
81 14 42 67 47
File Description Document
Number of awards/medals for outstanding View Document
performance in sports/ cultural activities at inter-
university / state / national / international level
during the last five years
e-copies of award letters and certificates View Document
Any additional information View Document
5.3.2
Page 98/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Presence of an active Student Council & representation of students on academic & administrative
bodies/committees of the institution
Response:
VNRVJIET keeps students as the fulcrum for the design of policies, programmes, and procedures of the
institution. The programmes are student-centric and are arranged by the students and for the students
through the student representatives. An active Student Council of VNRVJIET plans for the various
activities of the institute and student participation in various committees/ bodies add flavour to the
decisions taken by the institute for the welfare of the students.
VNRVJIET has various student chapters of prominent national and international professional
societies such as ACM, ASME, CSI, Diurnalis, GSDC, ICI, IEEE, IEI, IGBC, ISOI, ISTE, IETE,
IUCEE, Kritomedh, SAE, Turing Hut, VSI and student clubs namely CANDLEVES, Creative Arts,
Crescendo, Dramatrix, Electoral Literacy Club (ELC), Livewire, Nrithya Tarang, Scintillate, Social
Media, Stentorian, Vignana Jyothi Sahithi Vanam, VJ Theatro promoting curricular, co-curricular, and
extra-curricular activities to bring out the innate talents of the students. Students, under the guidance of
faculty coordinators, manage these Student Chapters and Clubs and contribute to vibrant student life
inside the campus.
Student representatives actively contribute through various bodies including IQAC. Student
representatives also serve in campus committees including Internal Complaints Committee, Library and
Information Resource Committee, Sports Committee, Canteen Committee, Hostel Committee, Fest
Organising Committee, Student Discipline Committee, Anti-Ragging Committee, and Anti-Drug
Committee, Editorial Boards for Vignana Vahini and Vignana Vartha, and Class Review Committee
(CRC).
Over and above, students are enthusiastic to join the social responsibility clubs such as NSS Units,
VNRSF, N-Army, TEDx and Art of Living Club to participate in service activities like organising blood
donation camps, medical camps and improve awareness of rural health and sanitation, adult education,
environmental responsibility in the community and other extension and outreach activities.
Participation in all these committees and taking up leadership roles enable the students to develop
organising ability, managerial attitude, people skills, team skills and decision-making skills in critical
situations. Many of our alumni are serving as CXOs in leading organisations and hundreds of our alumni
are serving in techno-managerial positions in MNCs both in India and abroad, which vouch for the
honing of the leadership skills through proactive participation in the Student Council, various
Committees, Professional Society chapters and various Student Clubs. Our students are actively
participating at National and International level sport activities and brought laurels to the institute.
Additionally, over 150 of our alumni have become entrepreneurs, providing employment and services in
various sectors. One of our alumni served even as a Member of the Parliament while many of our alumni
have been serving in various eminent government organisations and services including the Indian
Administrative Services, ISRO, and DRDO labs, contributing for the efficient governance of the country.
Some of our alumni are also a part of the entertainment industry in India, becoming film actors, writers,
and directors.
Page 99/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Document
Upload any additional information View Document
5.3.3
Average number of sports and cultural events / competitions organised by the institution per year
Response: 19
5.3.3.1 Number of sports and cultural events / competitions organised by the institution year - wise
during the last five years.
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
24 8 24 25 14
File Description Document
Upload any additional information View Document
Report of the event View Document
Number of sports and cultural events / View Document
competitions organised per year
5.4 Alumni Engagement
5.4.1
The Alumni Association / Chapters (registered and functional) contributes significantly to the
development of the institution through financial and other support services.
Response:
The Alumni Association of VNRVJIET stands as a testament to effective organisation and a high level of
activity. With its registered office located on campus, it's convenient for both alumni and the institution
to stay connected.
The Executive Committee, consisting of the President, Vice President, General Secretary, and other
office bearers, plays a crucial role in managing the affairs of the association. This diverse group ensures
that decisions and initiatives are approached from multiple perspectives, fostering inclusivity within the
association.
The exclusive portal, www.vnralums.com, serves as a platform for connecting the 15,987 alumni with
each other, the faculty, and the current students.
Page 100/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
The Alumni Association raised a fund of Rs. 31,07,602/- and non-monetary contributions amounting to
Rs. 41,38,000/- demonstrate the association's commitment to the welfare of both alumni and students.
The Alumni Advisory Committee of VNRVJIET actively works to bridge the gap between academia and
industry, fosters entrepreneurship and facilitates the professional development of students. Their diverse
range of activities aims to provide students with valuable industry exposure, mentorship, and networking
opportunities, empowering them to succeed in their chosen careers. The following is the list of activities:
Academic Activities:
Conducted 39 Sessions of Career vision approach
18 alumni are members of the Board of Studies of various departments and support the institute to
design industry-relevant courses/curricula.
Organised 48 technology-specific seminars and workshops
Research Activities:
VNRVJIET alumni assist the R & D Cell and Departments in the development of ideas for the
projects and provide project guidance & execution.
Training/Internships/Employment:
The alumni of the institute support in the following activities
Competency Development Cell – Training activities
Centre for Presencing and Design Thinking (CPADT)
42 Alumni from different batches mentored students on interview skills and video resume
preparation toward Placements.
Conducted 5 Sessions on Jobs and internships
Organised 42 Sessions of Mentoring & Knowledge Sharing Sessions
Conducted 35 Sessions of Placement and Training programmes
Innovation/Entrepreneurship /Incubation Activities:
Alumni guide and mentor VJ Hub – An Incubation Centre of VNRVJIET to attract start-ups to
the campus.
16 Alumni startups are incubated at VJ HUB.
Alumni associate with the activities of
Entrepreneurship Development Cell
Industry Institute Interaction Cell
Institute Innovation Council
Ancient Wisdom and Culture & Development of Happiness Index.
Activities:
Actively guide students in various Extra and Co-curricular activities, like LIVEWIRE,
Crescendo, Technical and Cultural events/fests.
YUGMA –Annual Alumni Home Coming Day is scheduled on the 3rd Saturday of December
Page 101/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
every year and 21st Reunion was celebrated on 17th December 2022.
Chapters:
VNRVJIET Alumni Association has chapters in
Bangalore,
Chennai,
USA,
Australia.
News letters: a monthly e-newsletter and a yearly newsletter are shared with alumni.
Business Wizards of VNRVJIET: A book containing top 100 alumni entrepreneurs profiles,
provides a close view of great leaders whose remarkable success and accomplishments.
Distinguished Alumni Awards: Incepted in 2019, 25 Distinguished Alumni Awards were
bestowed on alumni recognizing their achievements in the field of business and management
competencies in the public or private sectors.
The Alumni Association of VNRVJIET is actively engaged in fostering a strong bond between the
institution and its alumni, while also contributing to the welfare of current students.
File Description Document
Any additional information View Document
Link for additional information View Document
5.4.2
Alumni financial contribution during the last five years (in INR).
Response: A. ? 15 Lakhs
File Description Document
Any additional information View Document
Link for additional information View Document
Page 102/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Criterion 6 - Governance, Leadership and Management
6.1 Institutional Vision and Leadership
6.1.1
The governance of the institution is reflective of an effective leadership in tune with the vision and
mission of the Institution
Response:
Vallurupalli Nageswara Rao Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology (VNRVJIET) has
a strong governance structure which exemplifies effective leadership that is attuned to the vision and
mission of the institution. The Institute has firmly established its Vision, Mission, and Quality Policy,
which are outlined below:
Vision:
To be a World Class University providing value-based education, conducting interdisciplinary
research in cutting edge technologies leading to sustainable socio-economic development of the nation.
Mission:
To produce technically competent and socially responsible engineers, managers, and
entrepreneurs, who will be future ready.
To involve students and faculty in innovative research projects linked with industry, academic
and research institutions in India and abroad.
To use modern pedagogy for improving the teaching-learning process.
Quality Policy:
Impart up-to-date knowledge in the students' chosen fields to make them quality engineers.
Make the students experience the applications on quality equipment and tools.
Provide quality environment and services to all stakeholders.
Provide systems, resources, and opportunities for continuous improvement.
Maintain global standards in education, training, and services.
VNRVJIET is a self-financing institution run by Vignana Jyothi Society. The society governs the
institution with the service motto and contributes to the educational and technological growth in
Telangana state and country.
The Principal is the academic head of the institution and responsible for the day-to-day functions. He is
ably supported by Directors, Deans, Heads of Departments, Finance Officer, Section Heads, and
Chairpersons of various Institute-level Committees. The following Committees oversee the functioning
of the Institute: Governing Council (GC), Academic Council and Boards of Studies, Finance Committee
(FC), and Finance, Planning and Development Committee (FPDC). Additionally, other entities involved
Page 103/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
in governance include the IQAC, Planning, Approvals, Accreditation and Certification (PAAC) Cell,
Academics and Admissions (AA), Examinations and Evaluation (EE), Research and Consultancy Centre
(RCC).
The Institute's policies, strategies, resources, operations, and quality assurance measures encompass the
different dimensions of the institution, namely academics, research, innovation and entrepreneurship, and
social responsibility with global vision. The administrative structure and governance framework actively
encourage decentralized participative leadership at all levels by engaging diverse stakeholders in the
decision-making process.
Through functional committees, faculty members actively participate in curriculum design, determining
teaching methodologies, implementing examination reforms, maintaining academic standards,
supervising research, consultancy activities and ensuring student welfare. Such participation fosters
transparency in governance and encourages teamwork. Students and alumni also contribute to
governance through various committees.
The head of the institution drives the resulting policies, strategies, resource allocation, and operations
through the Governing Council. The Institute gives utmost importance to develop technical solutions for
societal problems and contribute to sustainable socio-economic development.
The vision and mission of the institution, dynamic leadership of the Principal, dedicated faculty, staff,
and students contributed for VNRVJIET to emerge as “College with Potential for Excellence” and is
accredited by NAAC with “A++” grade, CGPA of 3.73/4 in Cycle-2, and NIRF-2022 Engineering
category:113-Rank. The institution has the honor of being the most preferred engineering institution by
the stakeholders.
File Description Document
Any additional information View Document
Link for additional information View Document
6.1.2
The effective leadership is reflected in various institutional practices such as decentralization and
participative management.
Response:
The institution demonstrates a decentralized and transparent approach to managerial, administrative,
financial, and academic matters. This mechanism delegates appropriate responsibilities from top-level
management to the next levels, enabling the top management to focus on policy-making.
The Governing Council serves as the highest decision-making body within the institution. It formulates
and amends rules and regulations, delegates powers and responsibilities to various committees, the
Principal, Heads of Departments (HoDs), and Heads of Sections.
Page 104/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
The constitution of statutory committees such as the Governing Council, Academic Council, Finance
Committee, and Board of Studies is carried out systematically, with specified functions and
responsibilities aligned with the requirements of regulatory/statutory bodies. Nominees from UGC, State
Government and University are also members of these committees. These committees play a crucial role
in policymaking, governance, academics, finance, research, teaching-learning, and outreach.
The Principal ensures the smooth functioning of the institution with the support of the Directors and
Deans:
Dean Academics
Dean Examination & Evaluation
Dean Administration & Finance
Dean Student Progression
Dean Research and Consultancy
Dean Innovation, Incubation, Entrepreneurship & Globalization
Various other functional committees
These committees work collaboratively to identify possibilities, plan, organize, implement, and monitor
all the activities of the institution.
Participative Roles of Stakeholders
All stakeholders of the institution play participative roles in various decision-making committees.
External stakeholders, including nominees from statutory bodies, State government, University, Industry
experts, Employees, Educationists, and Scientists, constitute 20% of the committee members. Faculty
members occupy 55%, while students and alumni occupy 15% of the committee members. The
remaining 10% comprises management representatives.
This signifies that the institution embraces decentralized administration through committees and
practices participative management. The institution fosters a democratic approach in the decision-making
process, enabling all stakeholders to participate in managerial decisions.
Case Study: Decentralization at Department level for smooth functioning of the Academic and
Administrative Setup
Decentralization is evidently present at the department levels. Each department has Program
Coordinators at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels who oversee the academic activities of each
program. Well-structured committees, such as the Program Assessment Committee (PAC), Department
Academic Committee (DAC), Board of Studies, Department Development Committee, and Class Review
Committee (CRC), make decisions at the department level for curriculum, teaching and learning
Page 105/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
practices.
The other in charges at department level, viz., Budget, Student admissions, Physical resources, CAMS,
Attendance, Result Analysis, Project In charges, Internship, Guest lecture, MTP, Library, Self-learning
resources, Workshops, Classroom, VNR Differentiators, Professional body, etc. take part in regular
academic and administrative operations at decentralized level.
The decentralization practices at departments handle the students’ academic and regular needs, viz.,
adherence to academic needs, maintenance of infrastructure and laboratories, examination conduction,
feedback system, etc. This process helps students in achieving the outcomes at ease. The participative
practices of all faculty/staff in charges at department level are persistently visible and are resulting in
successful accreditations.
The HoDs are invited to the Governing Council meetings where they interact with the council members
and management to develop a roadmap for departmental and institutional development. The senior
faculty of the department are part of various institution level committees for decision making and
disseminate their responsibilities.
Note: The description and flow chart of sample case are provided in the additional information and link
for additional information.
File Description Document
Any additional informatiom View Document
Link for additional information View Document
Link for strategic plan and deployment View Document
documents on the website
6.2 Strategy Development and Deployment
6.2.1
The institutional Strategic / Perspective plan is effectively deployed
Response:
Vallurupalli Nageswara Rao Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology (VNR VJIET) is an
outstanding institution that has consistently pursued academic excellence through unique pathways since
its establishment.
Page 106/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Strategic Plan Objectives
The Strategic plan of VNR VJIET is designed with a clear sense of directions for the institution with
measurable metrics. The objectives defined in the strategic plan are as follows:
Objective 1: Achieving Academic excellence by curriculum orientation and fostering experiential
learning through ICT.
Objective 2: Exploration of Knowledge through Innovation and Research providing inclusiveness to
societal needs.
Objective 3: Exponent for Development of a Rounded Personality with Global Vision & Social
responsibility.
Objective 4: Relentlessly pursue institutional effectiveness through quality assurance systems.
Activity successfully implemented for achieving Objective 1:
The philosophy of Vignana Jyothi considers education as a process of "Presencing" that offers to one's
deepest capacity to perceive and experience the information and activities to change the future, both
individually and collectively. It draws on "deeper levels of LEARNING for discovering new
possibilities" and is based on a blend of first-hand experience, cutting edge thinking, and ancient wisdom.
During the assessment period institution has started new Academic programs which will be in need of the
Industry 4.0 in the emerging areas as per Objective 1 of the strategic plan. 5 Research Centres in CE,
EEE, ME, ECE and CSE where full time research scholars have registered, 6 Undergraduate new
programs and also 5 Minor Degree Programs are started. The UG Programs are started with MoUs,
interaction, training, and collaboration of the experts from relevant industries.
1.B.Tech. Computer Science and Business Systems (CSBS) is started in collaboration with Tata
Consultancy Services (TCS) in the AY: 2019-20.
2.B.Tech. CSE (Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning) where the curriculum is designed in
association with members from NASSCOM and Amazon in the AY: 2020-21.
3.B.Tech. CSE (Internet of Things) where is curriculum is designed in association with members
from NASSCOM and Amazon in the AY: 2020-21.
4.B.Tech. CSE (Data Science) where curriculum is designed in association with members from
NASSCOM, TCS, and Microsoft in the AY: 2020-21.
5.B.Tech. CSE (Cyber Security) where curriculum is designed in association with members from
DSCI, and Microsoft in the AY: 2020-21.
6.B.Tech. Artificial Intelligence and Data Science where curriculum is designed in association with
members from DSCI, and Microsoft in the AY: 2021-22.
Page 107/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Students from B.Tech. CSBS are successfully graduated in the academic year 2022-23
The following Minor degree programs are offered to enrich the core branches in interdisciplinary
domain area for industry readiness and providing solutions to the societal needs.
1.Cyber Security
2.Data Science
3.Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning
4.Internet of Things
5.Innovation and Entrepreneurship
In addition, the following open elective tracks are offered to the students to enrich the interdisciplinary
knowledge and make them proficient in industry 4.0 technologies.
1. Waste management
2. Smart Cities
3. Green Energy
4. 3D Printing & Design
5. Internet of Things
6. Augmented Reality (AR) / Virtual Reality (VR)
7. Artificial Intelligence
8. Blockchain Technologies
9. Robotics
10. Cyber Security
11. Data Sciences / Big Data & Analytics
12. Autonomous Vehicles
The placements of the students in core and emerging industries are evidence of success of this curricular
reform.
Page 108/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Document
Any additional information View Document
Link for Strategic Plan and deployment View Document
documents on the website
Link for additional information View Document
6.2.2
The functioning of the institutional bodies is effective and efficient as visible from policies,
administrative setup, appointment, service rules and procedures, etc.
Response:
The institute was accorded Autonomous status by UGC in the academic year 2012-13 for a period of 5
years. Further the institution got extension of Autonomous status for 10 Years from 2018-19 onwards.
Administrative setup:
The organization has a well-structured administrative setup governed by Governing Council,
Academic Council, Board of Studies, Finance Committee and other functional committees. The statutory
bodies are constituted according to the regulations of UGC, Affiliating University. Periodic Meetings are
conducted by all the committees.
The Governing Council is the highest decision-making body which formulates the procedures and
policies. The decisions taken by the other committees are approved in the Governing council.
The Academic Council reviews the courses, curricula, regulations and syllabi according to the needs of
industry and other stakeholders. The Board of studies at department level develops the syllabi with the
inputs from industry, academia and alumni.
The Finance Committee approves and monitors the Budget. It also monitors the resource mobilization.
The institute organization chart reflects the decentralization for an effective and efficient functioning of
institute activities. The roles and responsibilities for each committee are well defined in the policy
manuals.
The institution’s administrative setup is provided in the organogram. The functions of various
committees are given in the link for additional information.
Service rules, Procedures, Recruitment and Promotion Policies:
The Institute has a set of well-established recruitment policy, service rules, procedures, and
promotion policies within the framework of AICTE, UGC, State Govt. and the affiliating
Page 109/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
university, which are approved by the Governing Council of the Institute. The rules and
regulations of the institute were first published in November 1997 and are revised periodically.
The Administrative Manual and policy documents are made available in the institute website,
institute library and in all departments to create awareness among the employees and students.
The following are the major policies, manuals and procedures in which all the functional aspects of
day-to-day activities are provided:
Administrative Manual
Standard Operating Procedures (SOP’s):
SOP for Civil maintenance
SOP for Mechanical maintenance
SOP for Electrical equipment maintenance
SOP for EPABX and Telephones
SOP for maintenance of Computers and Networking
SOP for Stock Verification
General Maintenance: Engineering Cell, Security Wing
Institute Autonomous Manual
Outcome Based Education (OBE) Manual
Intellectual Property (IP) Policy
Research Policy
Consultancy Policy
Anti-Plagiarism Policy
Incubation Policy
Manual for Examination Procedures
Grievance Redressal, Anti-Ragging, Anti-eve teasing and Anti-drug policy.
Hostel rules and regulations
IQAC – Quality Management document
ISO Manual
Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy
File Description Document
Any additional information View Document
Link to Organogram of the Institution webpage View Document
Link for additional information View Document
6.2.3
Implementation of e-governance in areas of operation
1.Administration
2.Finance and Accounts
3.Student Admission and Support
4.Examination
Page 110/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Response: A. All of the above
File Description Document
Screen shots of user interfaces View Document
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) Document View Document
Any additional information View Document
Link for additional information View Document
6.3 Faculty Empowerment Strategies
6.3.1
The institution has effective welfare measures for teaching and non-teaching staff and avenues for
career development/ progression
Response:
The institution provides effective welfare measures to both teaching and non-teaching staff, ensuring
their well-being and satisfaction. All statutory welfare measures have been implemented, and various
monetary and non-monetary initiatives have been undertaken to support the personal and professional
growth of employees. Furthermore, the institute has made significant efforts to ensure the safety and
welfare of students and staff during COVID-19 pandemic.
Specific Measures Implemented:
1.Implementation of Norms: As per the norms of AICTE, the 7th CPC has been implemented for
teaching staff, and the 11th PRC has been implemented for non-teaching staff.
2.Incentives are provided for Ph.D. Completed Faculty.
3.Coverage under Employee Benefits: Employees are provided coverage under EPF, Gratuity, and
Medical Insurance schemes.
4.Leave Sanctions: Study, Maternity, Paternity and Medical leaves are sanctioned for the required
staff.
5.Loans for Vehicle and Laptops: Both teaching and non-teaching faculty have access to avail loans
for vehicles and laptops.
6.Financial Support: The institute provides registration fees, dearness allowance, and travel grants
to support faculty attending conferences and workshops.
7.Incentives: Incentives are provided to faculty members for their outstanding research work,
publications, and patents. Lucrative consultancy policy is in place with 70% - 80% share to the
faculty.
8.Seed Fund: Seed fund is granted to the faculty to encourage preliminary/initial research that leads
to major research proposals.
9.Career development: Faculty and staff are encouraged to pursue certification/PG diploma
programs in emerging areas from reputed institutions in India and abroad.
Page 111/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
10.Faculty are permitted and encouraged to pursue Ph.D. under QIP programs in premier
institutions.
11.Non-Teaching staff are encouraged to enhance their qualifications.
12.Ph.D. faculty are encouraged for Post Doctoral Fellowship.
13.ESI Facilities: Non-teaching staff members receive ESI facilities in accordance with the rules.
14.Concession: Concessions are provided on transport and medical facilities for all staff members.
15.Medical Insurance: Faculty and staff are offered subsidized group health medical insurance, with
50% subsidy for faculty and 75% subsidy for staff members.
16.Medical Services: The institution provides full-time medical facilities with qualified doctor and
nurse.
17.Fitness: Sports, gym, and yoga facilities are provided for staff members and their families.
18.Creche facility is available on campus for the children of faculty and staff.
19.ATM facilities are conveniently available on the campus.
20.The institute has developed a comprehensive 'Post Lockdown-Restart Manual', which provides
guidance on operating the institute during post lock-down of COVID-19 pandemic to ensure the
wellbeing of staff and students.
21.Thermal scanners have been installed across the campus to detect students and staff with high
temperatures, ensuring they are isolated and provided with necessary medical procedures.
22.Facial recognition biometric devices have been installed throughout the campus, replacing touch-
based attendance systems to minimize contact during the pandemic.
23.Foot-Operated Taps have been installed throughout the institution to minimize multiple touches
for students, staff.
24.Provision of Essential Equipment: Vaporizers, pedal-operated sanitizers, and hot water kettles
have been provided to all departments during the COVID-19 pandemic.
25.Regular sanitization efforts have been implemented, and provision for oxygen cylinders and
antigen swab test kits have been made available to ensure the safety of students and staff during
the pandemic.
26.The canteen offers food services at affordable prices to students, staff, and visitors.
An amount of Rs.66.16 lakhs is spent on Avenue for Career Development / Progression and Rs.1067.53
lakhs is spent on Faculty and Staff Welfare.
File Description Document
Any additional information View Document
Link for additional information View Document
6.3.2
Average percentage of teachers provided with financial support to attend conferences / workshops
and towards membership fee of professional bodies during the last five years.
Response: 32.59
6.3.2.1 Number of teachers provided with financial support to attend conferences/workshops and
towards membership fee of professional bodies year wise during the last five years
Page 112/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
130 81 84 145 118
File Description Document
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
Any additional information View Document
Link for additional information View Document
6.3.3
Average number of professional development / administrative training Programmes organized by
the institution for teaching and non-teaching staff during the last five years.
Response: 28.2
6.3.3.1 Total number of professional development /administrative training Programmes organized
by the institution for teaching and non teaching staff year-wise during the last five years
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
23 51 33 19 15
File Description Document
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
Any additional information View Document
6.3.4
Average percentage of teachers undergoing online/ face-to-face Faculty Development Programmes
(FDP)during the last five years (Professional Development Programmes, Orientation / Induction
Programmes, Refresher Course, Short Term Course ).
Response: 72.97
6.3.4.1 Total number of teachers attending professional development Programmes, viz.,
Orientation Programme, Refresher Course, Short Term Course, Faculty Development
Programmes year wise during last five years
Page 113/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
213 297 290 220 233
File Description Document
IQAC report summary View Document
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
Any additional information View Document
6.4 Financial Management and Resource Mobilization
6.4.1
Institution conducts internal and external financial audits regularly
Response:
Financial planning plays a vital role in maintaining the consistency of goals and aligning the growth
objectives of the institute with its financial requirements. By following the principle of "To Begin with
the End in Mind," the institute diligently plans and accumulates the necessary funds, considering the
inputs and requirements from its associated departments.
The institution follows the auditing process regularly. There is an internal audit as well as external audit
mechanism for the institute. Internal audit is conducted on a quarterly basis and the external audit is
conducted annually. The internal audit and external audit are conducted by two different professional
firms.
The suggestions / advice given by the auditors during the course of time are followed / implemented and
the same are being verified by the auditors during their subsequent visit. Thus, there are no major audit
objections from the audit. The auditors verify the accounting vouchers, supporting documents, processes
involved in each area of activity, statutory compliances, and the financial statements.
Efficient Budgeting and Controlled Mechanism
To ensure effective financial planning, the organization exercises budgeting, and controlled mechanisms
well in advance. This process involves the active participation of various academic departments and
administrative sections within the institute thereby establishing a comprehensive and efficient financial
plan.
Periodic Financial Planning and Review
The institute conducts periodic financial planning and review through a statutory Finance Committee.
Page 114/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
This committee, led by the Principal and consisting of members such as the Dean of Administration,
management nominee, JNTUH nominee, faculty, and account personnel, meets twice a year.
During these meetings, the committee reviews income-expenditure statements and provides suggestions
for further action plans. The institute's management, through the Governing Council, carefully examines
the income and expenditure patterns and offers pragmatic recommendations.
Structured Financial Section and Recording
A well-structured financial section is established within the institute, ensuring that every financial
transaction is recorded using established software. This meticulous recording allows for transparency and
accountability in financial operations.
Financial Rules and Transaction System
The institute has implemented financial rules to govern its financial activities. Notably, a "No-Cash"
Transaction System is followed, with tuition fee payments being made only through online modes. All
financial transactions in the campus are made digitally. By adopting this approach, the institute promotes
secure and transparent financial transactions. As per the auditing procedures, TDS and GST are also
implemented.
Flexibility in Financial Management
The institute's financial system allows for flexibility in enabling the allocation of funds over and above
the approved budget with due consideration by committee. This flexibility ensures addressing of
unforeseen expenditures, if any.
Transparency and Reporting
Audited financial statements are made public by publishing them on the institute's website and
submitting them to statutory and regulatory bodies. This commitment to transparency and reporting
fosters trust and accountability within the institute.
Effective Financial Management for Overall Growth
Through the implementation of an effective financial management system, the institute has experienced
overall growth. This system ensures the alignment of financial resources with strategic goals and
facilitates prudent decision-making.
File Description Document
Any additional information View Document
Link for additional information View Document
6.4.2
Page 115/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Funds / Grants received from non-government bodies, individuals, philanthropists during the last
five years (not covered in Criterion III and V) (INR in Lakhs)
Response: 100
6.4.2.1 Total Grants received from non-government bodies, individuals, Philanthropers year-wise
during the last five years (INR in Lakhs)
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
0 0 85.88333 14.11667 0
File Description Document
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
Any additional information View Document
Annual statements of accounts View Document
6.4.3
Institutional strategies for mobilisation of funds and the optimal utilisation of resources
Response:
Mobilization of Funds
The major source of revenue for the college is the fee collection from students. The annual tuition
fee is fixed by the Telangana Admission and Fee Regulatory Committee (TAFRC) for every three
years. Thus, the fee collected from the students will be as per the guidelines set by the fee
regulatory authority. The fee collected from students is kept in fixed deposits. As per the
requirements of the college, the fixed deposits are withdrawn and used for the expenditure of the
college. The interest earned on these fixed deposits is also being utilized for the needs of the
institution.
In addition to student fees, funds are mobilized through sponsored projects from various
organizations such as DST, FIST, DRDO, AICTE, UGC, as well as industry-sponsored projects
and consultancy undertaken by the faculty. These funds are utilized for purchasing equipment,
covering travel expenses, providing stipends for research associates, and facilitating consultancy
services. These funds are received through PFMS and are spent as per the guidelines of central
govenment and Utilization Certificates are sent on time. The institution also benefits from
philanthropic contributions.
Strategies for Optimal Utilization of Financial Resources
During the budget preparation process, the institution requests academic and section heads to
provide their annual budget requirements, taking into consideration the development and updating
Page 116/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
of laboratories, computing facilities and softwares, library resources, teaching-learning processes,
training programs, extension activities, and research.
To ensure optimal planning of financial resources, monthly budget plans are invited from all
departments and sections within the institution.
Individual budget estimations are collected, and a comprehensive budget is prepared.
This budget is then presented to the Finance Committee, which reviews and makes necessary
changes to achieve a proper balance between receipts and expenditures. The approved budget is
subsequently submitted to the Governing Council for approval.
The budget is further scrutinized by the Executive Committee of the management. Approved
budgets are communicated to the respective departments and sections.
The institution maintains a close track of the budget and in unforeseen circumstances, non-
budgeted amounts may be considered and allocated based on the merit of the case.
The efficient budgeting and optimal utilization demonstrated by the institution in past years
reflect its commitment to financial responsibility and resource management.
File Description Document
Link for additional information View Document
6.5 Internal Quality Assurance System
6.5.1
Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) has contributed significantly for institutionalizing the
quality assurance strategies and processes visible in terms of – Incremental improvements made
for the preceding five years with regard to quality (in case of first cycle)
Incremental improvements made for the preceding five years with regard to quality and post
accreditation quality initiatives (second and subsequent cycles)
Response:
Internal Quality Assurance Cell at VNRVJIET works with a motto of catalyzing the quality initiatives
and enhancement of these initiatives. Through integrated regular quality measurement tools and
techniques, sustenance and assurance of internal systems and processes are well taken care. The structure
of the IQAC at VNRVJIET is designed as an integrated agile model with coordinators for Quality
initiatives and enhancement, Quality sustenance, Quality measurement and Quality assurance. The
objectives of the post accreditation of 2nd cycle are discussed in detail and goals are derived.
The distinctiveness of the institution- VJ Spectral Pyramid™ and Strategic plan provides the strategic
direction to IQAC for preparing the action plans. The action plans are strategized and implemented with
the sense of belongingness and participation of all stakeholders. The following are the specific post
accreditation initiatives where concrete efforts are kept by IQAC committee for internalization and
institutionalization.
1.Enrich curriculum with support of industry and academia and offer credit based online courses.
Page 117/157 17-04-2024 03:44:28
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
2.Offer emerging academic programs/courses in relevance to advancements in industry.
3.Research scholars through AICTE-NDF scheme and affiliating University.
4.Improve revenue generation through consultancy activities.
5.Sensitize through research activities leading to high quality publications, research projects, and
IPRs.
6.Improve work culture by introducing Faculty Professional Growth Plan, Healthitude and
Happtitude activities.
7.Develop Quality circles through mentor-mentee activities with academic institutions.
8.Structured Academic and Administrative audits for monitoring and nurturing the quality across
academic departments and administrative sections.
More details on post accreditation initiatives are provided in additional information
Practice 1: Sensitize through research activities leading to high quality publications, research
projects, and IPR.
IQAC at VNRVJIET, consistently has taken part a catalyst role in conducting sensitization activities on
research and IPR. The following are the initiatives taken by IQAC during the post accreditation period:
Collaboration activities with Premier institutions, such as NIT Warangal, IIT Hyderabad, IIIT
Hyderabad, Central University Hyderabad and JNTUH Hyderabad has increased the Ph. D
registrations. 16 % of faculty are pursuing Ph.D. and 14 % of faculty had completed Ph. D from
NITs, IITs, and Central Universities. This resulted in improvement in quality publications, patents
and collaborative research projects.
A Series of Sensitization workshops are conducted on “Research methodologies”, “How to
conduct Literature review and Identifying the research gap in the identified domains”, “Training
on Latex”, Awareness on IPR. Apart from attending workshops outside the institution, a total of
24 events are conducted across the departments.
Details are provided in additional information
Practice 2: Develop Quality Circles through mentor-mentee activities with peer academic
institutions.
Institution under AICTE-Margadarshan and UGC- Paramarsh schemes has formed Quality
Circles to mentor the institutions and for exchanging the best practices for overall growth. Institution has
entered MoUs with peer institutions to enhance quality in teaching, research, and innovations. IQAC has
taken initiative and mentored institutions under these schemes.
Eleven institutions are mentored under these schemes and trained in Effective Teaching-Learning and
Evaluation Methodologies, inculcate the culture of Research and Innovation among faculty and students.
Also, few more other institutions apart from these institutions are supported through conduction of
academic and administrative audits, workshops, and seminars on Quality enhancement. Accreditations
and progress in quality initiatives of the institutions is observed through this practice.
Details are provided in additional information
Page 118/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
File Description Document
Any additional information View Document
Link for additional information View Document
6.5.2
The institution reviews its teaching learning process, structures & methodologies of operations and
learning outcomes at periodic intervals through IQAC set up as per norms and recorded the
incremental improvement in various activities
( For first cycle - Incremental improvements made for the preceding five years with regard to
quality
For second and subsequent cycles - Incremental improvements made for the preceding five years
with regard to quality and post accreditation quality initiatives )
Response:
IQAC at VNRVJIET along with the other objectives and goals, has major focus on nurturing academic
environment through sustenance and enhancement of teaching-learning process. Institution has well
developed Teaching learning methodologies in place and are practiced persistently. Regular monitoring
is performed stringently through,
1.Automatized Student feedback system (twice in semester) in line with AICTE 360°
2.Class Review Committee (CRC) meetings (twice in semester)
3.Course End survey (once in semester for all courses)
4.Annual Stakeholder surveys
5.Annual Student Satisfaction Survey (SSS)
6.Annual Academic and Administrative audits (AAA)
In continuation IQAC with directions of Governing Council, Academic Council, Board of Studies, and
inputs from IQAC committee the following activities and post accreditation activities are implemented:
1.Annual Academic audit process
2.Collaboration activities with IIT Bombay, NIT Warangal, NIT Patna, NITTR, Bennett University,
IUCEE, TCS, POGIL project for training faculty on pedagogies and advanced technologies.
3.Implementing self-developed pedagogical methods successfully, viz., WIT & WIL™, Story board,
VNR Lab protocol™, Course based Projects, Show and Tell.
4.Implementing of 3Ps (Premises, People, Processes) policy of VNRVJIET for enhancing and
sustaining of Teaching-Learning practices during the Pandemic period.
Other post accreditation activities are provided in additional functions.
Page 119/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Practice 1: Academic audit
The Academic Audit is a regular practice by IQAC at VNRVJIET which ensures the quality of each
program run by the Institute. It helps the Department/ Institute to identify its Strengths, Weaknesses,
Opportunities and Challenges (SWOC) to provide the directions for the enhancement of the programs.
The Academic Audit Proforma includes the Academic Audit at Course level and Department level. This
audit proforma focuses on the Quality parameters. The Assessment of these parameters provides the
department academic performance index and helps the departments for the continuous improvement.
Corrective measures for improvement of outcomes are initiated. IQAC in collaboration with academic
departments enforces the action taken on the corrective measures through continuous monitoring. The
success of the practice is evident through NBA accreditation of programs.
Details are given in additional information.
Practice 2: Implementing of 3Ps (Premises, People, Processes) policy of VNRVJIET for enhancing
and sustaining of Teaching-Learning practices during the Pandemic period.
Teaching learning methodologies and practices at VNRVJIET are well designed and implemented and it
is one of the biggest strengths of the institution, since the inception. The pandemic situation has provided
the institution with a challenge of retaining the quality of teaching, learning and evaluation process
during the tough periods.
IQAC has a strong role in adapting quickly the hybrid mode of teaching, measuring and maintenance of
the standards. The whole situation during the pandemic is handled through 3Ps in 2 stages.
Stage1: Conducting of online classes effectively during lockdown.
Stage2: Post lockdown restart for conducting hybrid mode of teaching learning and evaluation
activities.
Details are given in additional information.
Practice 3: Implementing and practicing VNRVJIET Teaching Learning Differentiators- WIT &
WIL™, Course Based Projects, Story Board, VNR Lab protocol™ and Show and Tell.
The VNR VJIET differentiators help students in gaining analytical ability, critical thinking, team
building skills, self-learning skills, learn advanced technologies, innovations and formation of ideas
leading to patents and startups.
Page 120/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Details are given in additional information.
File Description Document
Any additional information View Document
Link for additional information View Document
6.5.3
Quality assurance initiatives of the institution include:
1.Regular meeting of Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC); Feedback collected, analysed
and used for improvements
2.Collaborative quality initiatives with other institution(s)
3.Participation in NIRF
4.Any other quality audit recognized by state, national or international agencies (ISO
Certification)
Response: All of the above
File Description Document
Upload e-copies of the accreditations and View Document
certifications
Institutional data in prescribed format View Document
Any additional information View Document
Link for additional information View Document
Paste web link of Annual reports of Institution View Document
Page 121/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Criterion 7 - Institutional Values and Best Practices
7.1 Institutional Values and Social Responsibilities
7.1.1
Measures initiated by the Institution for the promotion of gender equity during the last five years.
Response:
VNRVJIET always adopts inclusive approach which does not discriminate based on gender, caste,
language. The college believes in gender equity and there are 37.3 % girl students and 43 % women
faculty and more than 50% of administrative positions such as - Deans, Heads of the Departments,
Coordinators of different sections and centres are held by women faculty. Likewise many professional
chapters related to students have female students occupying significant positions.
VNRVJIET has included Gender Sensitization as part of the curriculum for all B.Tech students. This
subject is basically meant to create gender equity and to sensitize the students about issues related to
gender equality. This course is designed to be an experiential learning process. As part of this course, the
students participate in several activities such as - role play, group discussion, JAM, poster presentation,
short talk, PPTs and so on. At the end of the course, students submit a mini project report based on one of
the prescribed topics related to gender equity.
Safety and Security :
Identifying the significance of women in the work force, VNRVJIET has recruited adequate number of
women faculty and staff. The college has employed women security guards for better compatibility to the
girl students.
The Prevention of Sexual Harassment cell was established to address the grievances related to sexual
harassment. The students, staff and faculty have the access to complain about any sexual harassment
issues in complete confidentiality.
Apart from this, the entire campus is on surveillance through CCTV cameras providing security to all the
students and especially to the girl students. This makes the campus a highly secured place, where the
students feel safe to stay back after college hours to carry out their academic/research work.The college
has created a healthy ecosystem which is free from fear and anxiety shaping their personality and
empowering them achieve their goals.The college has created a safe environment for women, a gender
just environment free of violence, harassment, exploitation and intimidation.In line with UGC guidelines
and the directives of supreme court, college has set up an Internal Compliants Committee(ICC).
Counselling and Common Rooms: Common rooms are provided for girls to relax in between their
academic schedules and during their menstrual cycles. The girl’s restrooms in the college are equipped
with vending machines that supply sanitary pads for the convenience of all women.
The college has also appointed a female counsellor to address all psychological issues concerning women
Page 122/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
on campus.
Day care Centre : As young mothers resume their work after delivery need to go through the trouble of
taking care of their babies, the college has provided an in-house, well- furnished day care centre.
As a welfare measure, women faculty are given 6 months maternity leave, for the benefit of taking care
of their newly born, retaining their jobs, and also avail paid leaves.
File Description Document
Annual gender sensitization action plan View Document
Specific facilities provided for women in terms View Document
of: a.Safety and security b.Counselling
c.Common Rooms d. Day care center for young
children e. Any other relevant information
7.1.2
The Institution has facilities for alternate sources of energy and energy conservation measures
1.Solar energy
2.Biogas plant
3.Wheeling to the Grid
4.Sensor-based energy conservation
5.Use of LED bulbs/ power efficient equipment
Response: A. 4 or All of the above
File Description Document
Geotagged Photographs View Document
Any other relevant information View Document
7.1.3
Describe the facilities in the Institution for the management of the following types of degradable
and non-degradable waste (within 500 words)
Solid waste management
Liquid waste management
Biomedical waste management
Page 123/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
E-waste management
Waste recycling system
Hazardous chemicals and radioactive waste management
Response:
1. Solid waste management
Inspired by Swatch Bharat Mission, Tri-Bin system is used in the Institute to segregate recyclable
and biodegradable waste.
Professional contractors collect the recyclable waste and biodegradable waste.
Recyclable waste is collected by Green Wave Enviro Services Pvt.Ltd., as per the agreement
signed by the MoU.
Professional contractors (GHMC) collect the bio-degradable waste.
The used record sheets, notebooks are collected every semester by VNR Student Force and
recycled by RECYKAL organization in the form of books. The books generated are donated to
the students of neighbouring Government Schools and are also made available to the in- house
students in the form of record books. This activity is an exclusive initiative of our students under
VNRSF (VNR Student Force).
Campus is Wi-Fi enabled and hence all communications are made online minimizing paper
usage.
Usage of plastic cups, plates and cutlery are banned in the canteen and food courts.
Organic waste generated from the canteen, food courts and dry leaves are composted and used as
a manure.
Sanitary incinerators are installed in campus and hostel.
2.Liquid waste management
Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) is installed and operated with a 150 KLD capacity in the institute
and 250 KLD capacity in Hostel.
The quality of treated water is periodically tested in the Environmental Engineering laboratory of
Civil Engineering Department as per the codal standards before using it further.
The treated water is used for flushing and gardening purpose using sprinklers.
3.Biomedical waste management
Bio medical waste produced from the college dispensary is collected in a separate bin and
disposed as per the guidelines of Biomedical waste Management rules given by CPCB.
4. E-waste management
Bins are provided across the campus to collect the E-waste from all the departments. The
collected material is disposed for recycling through authorized vendors [MoU with Green Wave
Enviro services ltd.]
All Computers, batteries and electronic machinery are purchased under Buy-Back agreement.
Use of CDs is not permitted to avoid e-waste.
e-governance is practiced in all institute operations.
Page 124/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
5. Waste recycling system
Poly Ethylene Teraphthalate (PET) bottles are collected in seperate bins and sent for recycling to
the agency Green Wave Enviro Services Pvt.Ltd. on regular basis
Used record sheets and note books are recycled with the help of RECYKAL organization.
Iron scrap from the workshops are recycled for internal laboratory usages
Construction and Demolition waste with in the institute is crushed using Jaw crusher in Concrete
laboratory and is used for research projects by the students and faculty.
6. Hazardous chemicals and radioactive waste management
Chemical and hazardous waste from laboratories is disposed as per MSDS (Material Safety Data
Sheet).
Liquid chemicals from Chemistry and Environment Engineering Lab are disposed as per MSDS
norms
Radio active materials are not allowed inside the campus.
File Description Document
Relevant documents like agreements/MoUs with View Document
Government and other approved agencies
Geotagged photographs of the facilities View Document
Any other relevant information View Document
7.1.4
Water conservation facilities available in the Institution:
1.Rain water harvesting
2.Borewell /Open well recharge
3.Construction of tanks and bunds
4.Waste water recycling
5.Maintenance of water bodies and distribution system in the campus
Response: A. Any 4 or all of the above
File Description Document
Geotagged photographs / videos of the facilities View Document
Any other relevant information View Document
Link for any additional information View Document
Page 125/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
7.1.5
Green campus initiatives include:
1.Restricted entry of automobiles
2.Use of Bicycles/ Battery powered vehicles
3.Pedestrian Friendly pathways
4.Ban on use of Plastic
5.landscaping with trees and plants
Response: A. Any 4 or All of the above
File Description Document
Various policy documents / decisions circulated for View Document
implementation
Geotagged photos / videos of the facilities View Document
Any other relevant documents View Document
7.1.6
Quality audits on environment and energy are regularly undertaken by the Institution and any
awards received for such green campus initiatives:
1.Green audit
2.Energy audit
3.Environment audit
4.Clean and green campus recognitions / awards
5.Beyond the campus environmental promotion activities
Response: A. Any 4 or all of the above
File Description Document
Reports on environment and energy audits View Document
submitted by the auditing agency
Certification by the auditing agency View Document
Certificates of the awards received View Document
Any other relevant information View Document
7.1.7
The Institution has disabled-friendly, barrier free environment
Page 126/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
1.Built environment with ramps/lifts for easy access to classrooms.
2.Divyangjan friendly washrooms
3.Signage including tactile path, lights, display boards and signposts
4.Assistive technology and facilities for Divyangjan accessible website, screen-reading
software, mechanized equipment
5.Provision for enquiry and information : Human assistance, reader, scribe, soft copies of
reading material, screen reading
Response: B. 3 of the above
File Description Document
Policy documents and information brochures on the View Document
support to be provided
Geotagged photographs / videos of the facilities View Document
Details of the Software procured for providing the View Document
assistance
Any other relevant information View Document
7.1.8
Describe the Institutional efforts/initiatives in providing an inclusive environment i.e., tolerance
and harmony towards cultural, regional, linguistic, communal socioeconomic and other diversities
(within 500 words).
Response:
Our Logo signifies our commitment towards the development of society focusing on the motto "From
Darkness – Lead me to Light".
‘Tamasoma Jyothirgamaya’
With this dictum, we attempt in bringing a change in our surrounding, creating a sense of ownership in
what we do and excel in every stage. For this, the Institute plans and conducts a number of events to
foster an atmosphere for moral, cultural, and spiritual values among the students and staff in order to
create a population with noble thoughts, noble in their attitude and be morally responsible. To strengthen
the emotional sentiments as well as to foster a sense of unity and social harmony, the Institute observes
various events.
The College cultural fest – Sintillashunz is the largest cultural extravaganza conducted every year. It
brings together students from various backgrounds, showcasing their artistic skills through music, dance,
drama, etc. fostering a sense of unity and camaraderie. During this three-day fest, students take part in
many cultural events such as Ethnic Day, Rangoli Competition, Nail Art, Creative Arts etc.
To promote a sense of unity and inclusion, we observe various regional and cultural days and host events
like the Fresher's Day, Teachers' Day, Engineers' Day, Induction Programme, Orientation and Farewell
Page 127/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Programme, Rally, Oath, Plantation Programme, Women's Day, and Yoga Day at the Institute. Ayudh
Puja celebrations, Bathukamma festivals, and other regional celebrations are held to promote intergroup
harmony.
The institute aims to provide a welcoming environment for everyone with respect to linguistic, cultural,
geographical, regional diversity, socioeconomic and other differences. The initiatives seek to promote
better education, the economic improvement of the underprivileged, and societal harmony. In this regard,
NSS initiates many activities like Fistful of Rice, Clay Ganesha event, Mental Health Awareness
Session, Rastriya Ekta Divas (National Unity Day). These events encouraged in not only creating social
awareness among the students, but also helped them in realizing the concept that ‘Sharing is Caring’.
The outreach activities at the institute promote a sense of belongingness among the staff and students.
Hence, the institute extended the services in testing the drinking water quality at nearby villages and also
creating the awareness campaigns regarding anti-drug, road safety etc., The extended activities' purpose
is to provide an environment where students can grow holistically.
The institution takes part in regional and cultural events like Constitution Day and the Youth Festival in
an effort to instil tolerance and unity among students. The Gender Equality Policy places a strong
emphasis on equal rights, opportunities, and access for men and women. All the departments provide a
barrier-free environment, appropriate resources, and technical assistance in an ongoing effort to ensure
that people with disabilities feel included in all facets of academic life. Lessons on human rights,
tolerance, love, compassion, harmony, the growth of social values, environmental awareness, and ethics
have been added in the curriculum through the subjects like ‘Professional Ethics’ and ‘Happiness and
Wellbeing’.
File Description Document
Supporting documents on the information provided View Document
(as reflected in the administrative and academic
activities of the Institution)
Any other relevant information View Document
7.1.9
Sensitization of students and employees of the Institution to the constitutional obligations: values,
rights, duties and responsibilities of citizens (within 500 words).
Response:
The Constitution of India lays down the foundation for a democratic and responsible society,
emphasizing the importance of values and duties of its citizens. To inculcate these values and promote
responsible citizenship, various activities are carried out in the institution. Through a variety of curricular
and extracurricular activities, the institution strives to develop its students and workers into better
citizens of the country by making them aware of their constitutional commitments regarding values,
rights, duties, and responsibilities. The Institute ensures that the staff and students participate very
Page 128/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
enthusiastically in all such activities.
The institute took part in Plantation Programme, HARITHA-HARAM, an initiative by Telangana Govt.
In this regard, the institute promotes a sense of community among the student body through a variety of
practises and programmes. Numerous faculties have long been engaged in the practise of planning events
that encourage students to engage in diverse behaviours that support the "Unity in Diversity" of our
homeland. Activities such as Live-Streaming of the Indian Parliament Session was held for students
and faculty. Many other activities like Debate Competition with the theme “The Constitution of India
and the Amendments: Is it helping the country?’, Poster-Making Competition, Slogan-Writing
Competition, Pledge on the Fundamental Rights was taken by students and the faculty.
The faculty members of various departments organised a variety of academic and extracurricular events
to promote the fundamental duties and rights of Indian citizens. The students participated in a variety of
academic programmes, such as webinars, conferences, expert presentations, bright talks, etc., which
helped them become more aware of these issues. Awareness Webinar “Know Your Environment
towards society” was organized. Their cognitive area has been expanded by the organisation of annual
competitions on various legal issues. The organisation is responsible for planning different types of legal
aid and legal awareness camps to understand the roles and obligations at a personal level. The Institute
participated in Clean India Programme, launched by Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports, Fist Full of
Rice, an initiative by UBA, to provide raw rice to orphanages and needy. Blood Donation Camp, AIDS
Awareness Campaign, Wall of Kindness, Clay Ganesha event, Mental Health Awareness Session,
National Unity Day (Rastriya Ekta Divas) and many more. The Electoral Literacy Club in the
institution conducts awareness programmes on right to vote.
The Institute celebrates the Independence Day & Republic Day vigorously with many other Social
Service Programmes: Distribution of Food & Masks to the needy during Covid-19 Pandemic. A Course
on Indian Constitution (Course-Code: A19MN6HS04) is been offered, that aims to develop students’
constitutional awareness, understand democracy at grass root level, familiarize with human rights and
duties among students and inculcate responsibilities towards nation building through technology.
In conclusion, these efforts play a crucial role in shaping responsible citizens who can actively participate
in the nation's progress and uphold the democratic values enshrined in the Indian Constitution. By
promoting education, civic awareness, social service, and constitutional literacy, these activities aim to
develop citizens who are aware of their rights and responsibilities, uphold democratic principles, and
actively contribute to the well-being of society.
File Description Document
• Details of activities that inculcate values; View Document
necessary to render students in to responsible
citizens
Any other relevant information View Document
Page 129/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
7.1.10
The Institution has a prescribed code of conduct for students, teachers, administrators and other
staff and conducts periodic programmes in this regard.
1.The Code of Conduct is displayed on the website
2.There is a committee to monitor adherence to the Code of Conduct
3.Institution organizes professional ethics programmes for students, teachers, administrators
and other staff
4.Annual awareness programmes on Code of Conduct are organized
Response: A. All of the above
File Description Document
Details of the monitoring committee composition View Document
and minutes of the committee meeting, number of
programmes organized, reports on the various
programs etc., in support of the claims
Code of ethics policy document View Document
7.1.11
Institution celebrates / organizes national and international commemorative days, events and
festivals (within 500 words).
Response:
The Institute recognizes the importance of celebrating national festivals and commemoration days of
great people as an integral part of learning and fostering a strong cultural belief and social responsibility
of patriotism. These celebrations provide opportunities for students to embrace their cultural heritage,
promote unity and diversity, and develop a sense of belonging. Around 100 events are conducted in the
institute with respect to various National Festivels and Commemoration days.
Republic Day is celebrated with great enthusiasm featuring flag hoisting by a Topper in girls followed by
cultural performances, and patriotic activities that instil a sense of national pride and unity among
students, faculty, and staff. Independence Day is observed with great fervour including flag hoisting by a
boy student, patriotic speeches, and cultural performances that ignite a sense of patriotism and gratitude
towards the nation.
Teachers' Day is commemorated with joy and gratitude honouring the teachers through various activities,
heartfelt messages, and expressions of appreciation. The day recognizes the invaluable role of teachers in
shaping the future and fosters a strong bond between students and faculty. Falicitation to the respective
department faculty are done in the departments.
Engineers' Day is celebrated honouring the contributions of engineers to society and showcasing the
Page 130/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
technical prowess of students through exhibitions, workshops, and innovative projects.
National Technology Day is observed highlighting remarkable advancements and innovations in
technology and focusing the significance of technology in driving progress, inspiring students to explore
new frontiers and contribute to technological advancements.
International Women's Day is celebrated at VNRVJIET with enthusiasm and empowerment, promoting
gender equality comprising inspiring talks, workshops on health and hygene and cultural programs to
foster a supportive and inclusive environment for women.
World Water Day is observed to raise awareness about the importance water conservation, recharging
ground water and rain water harvesting. The day is marked by informative sessions, workshops, and
initiatives by alumni and experts.
World Environment Day is commemorated to emphasize the significance of environmental conservation
and sustainable practices related to SDGs. The day is marked by tree plantations, awareness campaigns,
and eco-friendly initiatives to become environmental stewards and work towards a greener future.
International IP Day is recognized highlighting the importance of intellectual property rights in fostering
innovation and creativity.
National Mathematics Day is celebrated to commemorate the birth anniversary of renowned
mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan. The day is marked by engaging activities, competitions, and
lectures that encourage students to appreciate the beauty and significance of mathematics in various
fields of study.
International Yoga Day is observed to promote physical, mental, and spiritual well-being of students and
staff. The day includes yoga sessions, meditation and session on the importance of incorporating yoga
into daily life for a balanced and healthy lifestyle.
The celebration of international commemorative days, events, and festivals at VNRVJIET plays a vital
role in fostering cultural awareness, promoting unity, and nurturing a sense of belonging among students
and faculty. These celebrations serve as platforms for learning, appreciation, and reflection, allowing
individuals to connect with their heritage, embrace diversity, and develop a global perspective.
File Description Document
Any other relevant information View Document
Annual report of the celebrations and View Document
commemorative events for the last five years
7.2 Best Practices
7.2.1
Page 131/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Describe two best practices successfully implemented by the Institution as per NAAC format
provided in the Manual.
Response:
BEST PRACTICE - I
1. TITLE OF THE PRACTICE:
To foster Design Thinking and application of multi-disciplinary knowledge to address global
challenges through Centre for Presencing and Design Thinking (CPADT)
2. OBJECTIVES OF THE PRACTICE:
CPADT is established in 2017 with the Vision “to be an institution that fosters design thinking and
applies multi-disciplinary knowledge to address global challenges”.
The Centre is born out of the belief that design must be an integral part of learning for graduating
engineers. The Vision, Mission, and Objectives of the Centre are formulated with Society at the core of
the ideology and an outlook that all engineering, science, and technology are meant to improve life
conditions and sustainability.
Mission
To empathise students towards understanding and respecting social, economic, and cultural
aspects of diversity and devise solutions for the best user satisfaction and user experience
To enhance engineering, science, and technology skills through integration of design thinking
To create focused attention among students towards solving real-world problems and contributing
to the Society through Direct and Indirect Societal Impact
Objectives:
To help thinking and doing design related to engineering, science, and technology.
To hone soft skills along with innovation, entrepreneurial, decision-making, and other managerial
skills
To develop a conscious, confident, and empathetic personality as an engineer while bringing
Page 132/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
ethics into one’s way of personal as well as professional life.
To encourage students to develop maximising utility for the Society at large than to exert
themselves to a merely satisfying outlook.
3.CONTEXT:
Engineers of the Future need different skills – skills to work in an integrative manner, which requires a
convergence of all engineering skills and people skills. Engineering is aimed at designing at better
tomorrow and making lives easier. Design Thinking is a bottom-up approach towards understanding and
solving problems in the Society.
It’s about time that Technology looks back on its path of development and steers clear off negative
environmental impact, paving a new path towards Sustainable and Inclusive Development where the
Nature and its components receive the benefits of Technology directly and indirectly. It is thus time to
act with a vision for the Future. “Presencing” is coined as a portmanteau of “presence” and “sense” but
goes beyond these - it is about Being Present, Sensing and Observing the Environment, Experiencing the
learning, and Extrapolating it to other times and realms. Presencing is also about bringing the best future
possibilities into the present and acting to ensure the Best Future.
4. THE PRACTICE:
The CPADT has been working to build on this culture of ideation and innovation in budding engineers
through education. This transformation will not only require teaching new technologies but also teaching
new ways to question and ideate. Design Thinking approach focuses on the root of the problem and
brings out the human, end-user expression of the problem. Students at VNRVJIET use Design Thinking
as one of the many tools to discover, identify, and understand the problem before setting out to solve it.
The juxtaposition of Presencing and Design Thinking together close the loop of Being present, Sensing
and Observing, Analysing, Ideating and Prototyping solutions to problems at any level and for any
context.
The Centre for Presencing and Design Thinking (CPADT) was founded with the purpose of fostering
personal, professional, and societal transformation, aiming to cultivate a comprehensive outlook on life
and society as a whole.
A. Incorporation of Design Courses in the Curriculum:
The Institute has integrated Design Appreciation courses from the academic year 2018-19 into the
curriculum for I B.Tech and III B.Tech. students, tailoring the content to meet the specific needs
Page 133/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
of each branch in collaboration with the respective Boards of Studies and the Academic Council.
At VNRVJIET, Design classes are conducted in a highly unconventional manner for maximum
effectiveness and enjoyment. A team of 3-5 teachers co-teach these classes, encouraging
interdisciplinary peer groups with gender diversity. Students are guided to document their
learnings through formal reports, slideshows, and physical demonstrations of design models and
prototypes.
The CPADT team has developed a specialized "Happiness and Wellness" course, incorporated as
a value-added component in the R-22 curriculum with the approval of the Institute's Academic
Council.
I year: Design Sensitisation - 1 Credit
Design Overview and Motivation
Understanding Design Process
Doing Design: Problem Discovery and Definition
Doing Design: Customer Service Experience
Communication Skills for Design
Responsible Innovation and Sustainable Design Approaches
Design Project (Interdisciplinary)
III year: Design Thinking leading to project – 2 Credits
Working with Creativity and Empathy
Design Methods: Developing Products and Services
Strategy Design
Design and Sustainability
Integrative Engineering Design Solutions
Capstone Project (Interdisciplinary)
The projects are evaluated and assessed by relevant Industry experts.
B. Capacity Building of Faculty:
Seven faculty members received certification in PG Diploma in Innovation and Design Thinking
from EMERITUS Institute of Management (Singapore) in collaboration with
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (USA)
Tuck School of Business (USA)
Columbia Business School (USA)
Seven faculty members were sponsored for the certificate program in design thinking for
customer-centric innovation from IIM Kozhikode.
Page 134/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Faculty members are encouraged to pursue design courses through MOOC platforms.
Faculty attended the 10-day Certificate Course on "Medical Innovation & Design Thinking" at
BITS-Pilani Hyderabad in 2019.
Faculty is sponsored to attend the foundation program "Leading from the Emerging Future: From
Ego to Eco" conducted by the Presencing Institute of MIT in Berlin.
Faculty participated in a five-day workshop on "Innovation, Design, and Entrepreneurship (IDE)"
in Chennai, Tamil Nadu.
Faculty members were sponsored for the Visual Thinking course by Mr. Piyush Modi's startup
and Attended Design Workshops, Seminars at the National Institute of Design (NID), and
conferences by the World Design Organisation and Indian School of Business (ISB), Hyderabad.
Six faculty members completed design courses through the SWAYAM-NPTEL Portal.
Six faculty members completed the Design Thinking course conducted by IUCEE (Indo Union
Collaboration for Engineering Education).
Some faculty members underwent training through the ATAL portal and ICFAI.
Three faculty members received training in HAPTITUDE, focusing on enhancing happiness in
their work life and improving the happiness index.
C. Training and Awareness Sessions/Workshops:
Faculty members, both internal and external, are provided training in Design Thinking through
workshops and webinars conducted in online and offline modes.
Workshops are organized for students from other institutes during technical fests.
Special workshops are conducted for school teachers and children to emphasize the significance
of design thinking and innovation.
5. EVIDENCE OF SUCCESS:
By integrating Design Thinking into the curriculum and promoting awareness among faculty and
students at various educational levels, from schools to graduation, we have witnessed positive outcomes
that contribute to innovation and a self-reliant India (Aatmanirbhar Bharath). The following activities,
achievements, and outcomes demonstrate our progress:
Conducted Design Sensitization workshop for CBSE school teachers, inspiring innovation and
contributing to Make in India.
Implemented Design Thinking principles in multidisciplinary teams, addressing real-life
problems and aligning with SDGs.
Trained 55 VJ Public School teachers in a one-day Design Sensitization session (June 2018).
Facilitated a three-day Certification Course in Design Thinking for 188 students, delivered by
industry experts (March 2018).
Organized a three-day "Design Appreciation" course by Mr. Jogendra Panghaal, an international
faculty at IICD, Jaipur, attended by over 50 students (September 2017).
Conducted 6-hour Orientation Sessions on Design Sensitization for 200 faculty members from
various departments.
Page 135/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Success Stories:
Design thinking in the curriculum has led to 4 successful start-ups.
Design thinking projects (III Year) carried out by student teams led to societal Impact.
M. Tech student published 2 papers in reputed journals/conferences.
CPADT was instrumental in writing and publication of a book on "Post-Lockdown Restart
Manual", a Framework for prevention and Mitigation of COVID-19 in August 2020.
CPADT, driven by an urge towards “Transformation of the Self and Society”, designs its
activities being mindful of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals identified by the United
Nations Organisation.
6. PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED AND RESOURCES REQUIRED
To address the challenges faced and meet the needs effectively leading to improved outcomes and
solutions, the following resources are required:
Recruitment of qualified and experienced faculty with design specialization.
Dedicated designed workspaces are essential for incubating design ideas and facilitating the
development of innovative technical solutions.
7. NOTES
The CPADT is actively transforming itself into a Center of Social Impact, serving as a guiding light for
engineers and managers striving to address societal challenges. In the near future, the center aims to
establish itself as a credible professional body, offering guidance and support to academia, industry, and
society as a whole.
BEST PRACTICE - 2
1. TITLE OF THE PRACTICE:
To create collaborative framework for knowledge derived from industry with regard to Curriculum
Page 136/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Design, Delivery, Evaluation, Research, Employability and Lifelong Learning.
2. OBJECTIVES OF THE PRACTICE:
Institute aims to bridge the gap between the institute and the industry and offer real time exposure on
projects and other developments for the students and faculty. The possible interactions are industry
support to research, technology development involving some exploratory work, academic intervention in
solving industry problems, and laboratory support or utilization by industry.
VNR VJIET to achieve its vision of becoming world class university stated one of its mission statement -
“To involve students and faculty in innovative research projects linked with industry, academic and
research Institutions in India and abroad” speaks Institute’s priority on this initiative.
The main objectives of IIP are listed as below:
Constitution of IIIC (Industry Institute Interaction Cell) for creating synergetic partnership with
industries.
Participation of industry in the curriculum design/academic programs /courses and in the delivery
of the course contents
Signing of Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) with industries for mutual areas of interest
Providing solutions to the challenges faced by specific industries.
Encouraging Industrial Research Consultancy
Attracting industry supported laboratories in the Departments.
Establishment of theme-based Research laboratories to cater to the needs of research problems
faced by the industry.
Establishment of start-up culture and incubate the ideas in collaboration with industry inputs.
Facilitating internships and placements by establishing partnerships with companies, maintaining
a database of job openings, and setting up relevant jobs
Professional consultancy by the faculty to industries.
Appointment of Adjunct Professors and Professors of Practice from the industry.
Fostering an entrepreneurial mindset and culture by organizing workshops, seminars, and events
that motivate students to explore entrepreneurship as a viable career option but also providing
support and resources for aspiring entrepreneurs and promoting entrepreneurial activities by the
industry.
3. THE CONTEXT:
The trends in the technology are evolving at an accelerating speed and there is a growing skills gap
between academia and industry in terms of research and employability skills of the graduates. This is a
big challenge for the academia and industry and all stakeholders must work together to address.
Page 137/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
VNRVJIET being in the heart of the city, there is a great possibility of the development of such
symbiotic relationship by careful understanding of the industry needs such as relevant R&D, cost
effectiveness, time bound programmes, technology upgradation etc. by the Institute and, in turn,
understanding the capabilities and limitations of the institute by the industry.
4. THE PRACTICE:
The Industry Institute Interaction Cell (IIIC) is established, and the Research Advisory Council is
constituted at Institute level with domain related industry experts.
Relevant Industry experts are the members of Boards of Studies as approved by the Head of
the Institute. Feedback is also collected from the industry experts (apart from BoS members) on
the curriculum of the respective academic programs.
Industry experts as external examiners in the UG, PG project evaluation and in the Doctoral
Research Committee for the review of Ph.D. scholar's progress.
Industry designed academic program: UG Program, B.Tech - Computer Science and Business
Systems (CSBS) is designed and the curriculum is framed by TCS (Tata Consultancy Services).
Industry designed courses: Companies like TCS, Cognizant, PEBS Pennar Industries have
designed the elective courses.
Courses delivered by Industry experts: Experts are invited to deliver course contents in
core/professional elective courses.
Certification courses: Every department in collaboration with Industry organizes certification
programs like Full stack, Mean stack, web technologies, advanced coding skills, domain specific
trainings like Project Management, to enhance the skill set required for possible employment in
specific Industry.
Industry MoUs : Departments partners with the industry to sign MoUs with the Institute. Total
of 69 MoUs are signed for possible collaboration in terms of Internships, field/site visits, hands
on training, employability opportunities and in faculty research.
Industry Supported Laboratories: 4 Industries like BLUE STAR, National Instruments,
Keerthi Industries, unplatform, have supported equipment /laboratories in Mechanical
Engineering, Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering, Civil Engineering departments.
Enterpreuner Development (ED Cell) : It plays a vital role in nurturing and supporting the
entrepreneurial aspirations of students. It provides them with the necessary resources, skills and
guidance to explore and pursue entrepreneurial ventures thus contributing to the development of a
vibrant and dynamic start-up ecosystem within the college and beyond.
ECFICIO : It provides a platform for students to showcase their entrepreneurial ideas, learn from
industry experts, network with like-minded individuals and gain valuable insights and
experiences.
My Big Idea : An Investor pitching and funding competition is organized by the ED Cell. This
competition provides students with the opportunity to present their business ideas or start-up
ventures to a panel of investors or judges. This competition aims to simulate real-world
investment scenarios and offer students a chance to secure financial support for their
entrepreneurial endeavours.
Course on Entrepreneurship in the Curriculum: VNRVJIET is well on its way to creating
thinkers of the future. In this regard, an open elective on Entrepreneurship is also offered to the
students which focusses on developing skills in students to generate business ideas, helping them
Page 138/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
convert ideas into opportunities, equipping them with the process of evaluating business
opportunities and helping them analyze business models.
Curriculum offers a Minor Degree in “Innovation and Entrepreneurship” with 18 additional
credits.
5. EVIDENCE OF SUCCESS:
All the Departments have experts from Industry as Members of the Board of Studies. These members
have been providing their valuable inputs in the curriculum Design. Apart from this, feedback on the
curriculum revision/design is collected from the specific domain industry experts on the inclusion of
latest technologies and skills.
1.15 Industry experts are serving as members of Boards of Studies in various departments.
2.TCS designed academic program, B.Tech Computer Science and Business Systems(CSBS)
first batch students have successfully graduated in the year 2023 with Graduate Outcome of
93.93% pass percentage and 86.4 % placements with an average salary of 11.7 lacs with highest
salary of 44.15 lacs per annum .
3.About 50 courses are designed by industry and are offered to students.
4.Participation of Industry Experts in academic development of the Department (as DDC members)
yielded improvement in the laboratory research facilities and collaborations.
5.Teaching learning pedagogy WIT & WIL™ (Why am I Teaching -What I am Teaching; Why am I
Learning -What I am Learning) scenarios of all the courses across the programs are endorsed by
relevant Industry experts.
6.A total 4537 number of Industry Oriented Mini projects are done by the students in the
assessment period.
7.Total 8 industrial experts are involved in curriculum delivery and mentoring the faculty in
research guidance from INAE-DVP scheme, AICTE -DCP, adjunct professor schemes
8.219 number of guest lectures are delivered by industry experts in the assessment period
9.An amount of Rs. 144.47 lacs is generated from the industrial consultancy in the assessment
period
10.VNRVJIET’s emphasis on Entrepreneurship and Innovation is evident from the establishment of
VJ Hub, a Section 8 company registered in 2017 under the Companies Act (2013), India, located
on the campus itself. VJ Hub offers pre-incubation, virtual incubation, and co-incubation support
to start-up and is a part of the regional network of incubators, Telangana Incubators and Enablers
Network.
11.Number of students opted for Entrepreneurship course as open elective are 1529 in the
assessment period.
12.4 start-ups are graduated from VJ Hub, some of which were founded by students, alumni, and
faculty members of VNRVJIET.
13.Students won National / International Awards in Hackathons and Design Contest for solving
industry problems.
14.Many National / International conferences / workshops are conducted in collaboration with
industry experts for knowledge transfer.
Page 139/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
6. PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED AND RESOURCES REQUIRED
Commonality of goals among the academic and industry researchers need to be aligned with the expected
outcome from the problem statement from both academia and industry.
Dedicated secretarial assistance, including computer assistance is required to work with various activities
related to linkages, in order to avoid delays in the completion of research studies.
File Description Document
Best practices in the Institutional web site View Document
7.3 Institutional Distinctiveness
7.3.1
Portray the performance of the Institution in one area distinctive to its priority and thrust within
1000 words
Response:
VNRVJIET is deeply committed to achieve Sustainable Development through its Emphasis on Quality
Education: “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning
opportunities for all (SDG-4.0)”. (Source: https://sdgs.un.org/goals/goal4). The institution's vision,
policies, strategies, and action plans are all geared towards embedding sustainable development
principles into the fabric of education.
VNRVJIET embraces a philosophy dedicated to serving society and continually reinventing itself to
meet evolving needs. With an integrated approach encompassing teaching, research, innovation, and
extension activities, the institution's distinctiveness lies in its philosophy of "Education Process Re-
engineering (EPR)/ VJ Spectral Pyramid.":
1.Enrichment of Curricular Aspects
2.Strengthening Teaching–Learning
3.Enhancing Evaluation Process
4.Promoting Research and Innovations
5.Focusing on Students Progression
6.Promoting Values and Social Responsibilities
1.Enrichment of Curricular Aspects:
In the pursuit of Quality Education, VNRVJIET places a strong emphasis on the enrichment of curricular
aspects, ensuring that the educational content is comprehensive, relevant, and aligned with industry
requirements to prepare global graduates. The following initiatives and provisions are implemented to
Page 140/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
ensure quality learning experiences for students:
Regular curriculum revisions, driven by industry needs and stakeholder feedback, with a specific
focus on sustainable development.
Encompassing NEP initiatives in R22 Curriculum
Introduction of Minor Degrees in Computer Science allied streams and Innovation and
Entrepreneurship from 2021
Introduction of open elective tracks in emerging technologies.
General tracks that enhance employability by focusing on industry-relevant skills.
Integration of design courses that promote creative problem-solving through experiential learning
approaches.
Inclusion of mandatory value-added courses.
2.Strengthening Teaching-Learning:
In pursuit of Quality Education through a robust teaching-learning process at VNRVJIET, the following
initiatives are considered integral to achieve this goal:
Annual academic audits
Implementation of a well-defined induction program for both students and staff
Conducting diagnostic tests to analyze training needs and provide mentoring and training support
accordingly.
Incorporation of project-based learning, assigning weightage to course-based projects during
Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE).
Encouragement of self-learning through MOOCs and credit transfer
Emphasis on hands-on training utilizing modern tools and technologies, providing practical skills
and real-world application opportunities.
Organization of awareness workshops and seminars to instill a sense of responsibility towards
sustainability and environmental consciousness.
Facilitation of learning through active participation in technical fests, paper presentations,
hackathons, coding contests, etc., fostering creativity, innovation, and collaboration among
students.
Capacity Building Initiatives to Empower the Faculty:
To achieve the goal of Quality Education through capacity building initiatives, VNRVJIET implements
the following action points for faculty development:
Sponsorship of faculty members to attend workshops and conferences
Encouragement and support for faculty members to pursue higher qualifications by sponsoring
them for higher learning programs through the QIP.
Promotion of continuous learning through online platforms to acquire new knowledge and skills
in emerging technologies and teaching methodologies.
Training and equipping faculty members with sustainable pedagogies.
Encouragement of faculty members to engage in basic and applied research.
Page 141/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Gender equity
The institution, implements the following action points to achieve the goal of Quality Education through
gender equity:
Integration of gender sensitization as a dedicated component in the curriculum.
Promotion of gender equity in key roles within the institution, ensuring equal opportunities and
representation for all genders.
Organizing awareness campaigns, workshops, and seminars.
3. Strengthen the Assessment and Evaluation Process:
The following action points help strengthen the assessment and evaluation process for achieving the goal
of Quality Education:
Automation of the examination section to streamline and expedite the assessment process.
Implementation of continuous internal assessments.
Ensuring transparency in the evaluation process, providing clear criteria and feedback to students.
Establishing provisions for addressing grievances and allowing students to challenge evaluation
results if necessary.
Implementing anti-plagiarism checks, design evaluation patterns with Bloom's Taxonomy and
course outcomes
Regularly monitoring and analyzing students' performance in terms of outcome attainment,
enabling targeted interventions and improvements in the teaching-learning process.
4. Promoting Research, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship:
VNRVJIET also actively promotes research and innovation to explore new frontiers, develop critical
research skills, and contribute to advancements in various disciplines and to promote “make in India”
through start-up culture.
Research:
Establishment of research centers in each department
Encouragement and support for faculty and students to engage in high-quality research by
providing seed money
Research Incentives to faculty
Innovation and Entrepreneurship:
Provision of a platform for business start-ups to develop their ideas into commercially viable
products.
Facilitation of innovative project ideas through the Weekend Labs.
Establishment of VJHUB as an incubation center, offering seed funding and infrastructure
support.
Engagement of the Entrepreneurship Development (ED) Cell to inspire and nurture the spirit of
innovation and entrepreneurship
Page 142/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
5. Focus on Student Progression
VNRVJIET emphasize the development of a well-rounded personality with a global vision, achieved
through active participation in co-curricular activities (CCA) and extra-curricular activities (ECA) with
35 active student chapters and clubs
Mentoring Training and Placement (MTP) center & Competency Development Centre to offer
structured career guidance, personal counselling, training support to students and skill
development.
6. Foster Values of Sustainability and Social Responsibility
VNRVJIET integrates sustainability and social responsibility into its educational framework, fostering
values and practices:
Maintaining an environmentally friendly campus by implementing energy conservation measures.
Developing and using an institute sustainability dashboard.
Promoting awareness about employment opportunities, cyber security, and solutions for pollution
problems among students and staff.
Conducting outreach activities such as anti-drugs drives, volunteer teaching, blood donation and
health camps, surveys, Haritha haram, Swachh Bharat, and Unnat Bharat Abhiyan to contribute to
social empowerment.
Few achievements of Excellence in Education are:
UGC – College with Potential for Excellence status
UGC Autonomous Status (2018-2019 to 2027-2028)
Global Education Summit- Innovation by Engineering Institute
NAAC Accredited (A++ with 3.73 CGPA)
QS I-GAUGE - Diamond Rating & E-LEAD Certificate
ISO 9001:2015 Certified.
Received grants worth ?18.00 cores from various funding agencies.
ARIIA 2021-Band "PERFORMER" under the category "Colleges/Institutes (Private / Self-
Financed) (Technical)"
ISTE- Best Private Engineering College (47th ISTE National Annual Convention)
ISTE Best Chapter Award
24 Patents are Granted, 85 patents published; 20 copyrights; 7 trademarks and 17 Differentiators.
SIRO Recognition by Govt. of India.
15 Start-Ups are incubated.
Received Platinum rating in the AICTE-CII Survey 2020.
Received NPTEL “AA” rating based on performance in NPTEL online certification.
Korea International Women’s Invention Expo- GOLD Prize
Tutors Pride Ideal Teaching Award- Dr. C.D.Naidu, Technological Principal of the Year
Page 143/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
In conclusion, VNRVJIET's commitment to the UN SDG 4 of Quality Education is reflected in its
comprehensive roadmap and practice for sustainable development.
File Description Document
Any other relevant information View Document
Appropriate web in the Institutional website View Document
Page 144/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
5. CONCLUSION
Additional Information :
Vallurupalli Nageswara Rao Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology (VNRVJIET) was
established in the year 1995 by the Vignana Jyothi Society as a not-for-profit organization. The Institute is
established with the permission of AICTE and State Govt. Institute’s accomplishments as on date includes:
14 UG programmes, 13 PG programmes and Ph. D programmes through JNTUH, AICTE – NDF.
Over 480 faculty members out of which, 221 faculty with Ph.D. qualification and 184 faculty pursuing
Ph.D.
Autonomous under UGC since 2012, accorded extension of the status for a period of 10 years
(2018–’19 through 2027–’28).
Recognized under Section 2(f) and 12(B) of UGC Act, 1956.
8 UG and 4 PG Courses are accredited by National Board of Accreditation (NBA). B.Tech Civil
Engineering & EEE are accredited for 6 years by NBA.
Accredited by NAAC with ‘A++’ Grade under the Revised Accreditation Framework, with CGPA 3.73
out of 4.00 in Cycle-II.
Recognized as a Mentoring Institute under the UGC “PARAMARSH” scheme and AICTE
“MARGDARSHAN” scheme
NIRF-2023: 101-150 Rank band in Engineering.
Awarded with QS I-Gauge Diamond overall rating and E-Lead certified Institute
ISO 9001:2015 Certified.
Received grants worth ?18.00 crores from various funding agencies.
ARIIA 2021-Band "PERFORMER" under the category "Colleges/Institutes (Private / Self-Financed)
(Technical)"
24 Patents are Granted, 85 patents published; 20 copyrights; 7 trademarks and 17 Differentiators.
2657 publications in various journals during last 5 years, with 39 h-index in Scopus and 27 h-index in
Web of Science
SIRO Recognition by Govt. of India.
A wholesome Innovation and Incubation Ecosystem comprising of an Entrepreneurship Development
(ED) Cell, Industry-Institute Interaction Cell (IIIC), Competency Development Centre (CDC), Centre
for Presencing and Design Thinking (CPADT), Research and Consultancy Centre (RCC), an Institute
Innovation Council (IIC), and the in-house incubator, VJ Foundation for Entrepreneurial Excellence (VJ
Hub).
15 Start-Ups are incubated from VJ Hub till date.
Received Platinum rating in the AICTE-CII Survey 2020.
Received NPTEL “AA” rating based on performance in NPTEL online certification, ranked 1st in
Telangana and 18th among Top 100 Local Chapters nationwide.
15,987 Alumni registered members and Chapters at Hyderabad • Bangalore • Chennai • USA • UK
Highlights of 2022 Batch Placements
31 students with > Rs.30.00 Lacs per Annum
146 students with Rs. 10.00 to Rs. 30.00 Lacs per Annum
498 students with Rs. 6.00 to Rs. 10.00 Lacs per Annum
Average Salary: Rs. 7.67 Lacs per Annum
Page 145/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Total number of Placements is 2420 with multiple offers
Concluding Remarks :
VNRVJIET has demonstrated a strong commitment by aligning its academic programmes with the needs of the
industry and the nation. The adoption of learner centric pedagogies and academic flexibility created with the
multi-disciplinary approach to education, created an enriching environment allowing the students to personalize
their education path. VNRVJIET’s transparent system of evaluation has earned recognition and appreciation.
This transparency fosters a sense of trust and confidence in the evaluation process.
VNRVJIET’s focus on building state of the art facilities and nurturing student talents creates a conducive
learning environment that supports holistic development of students by engaging multidisciplinary research,
innovation, and practical application in real world scenarios. The infrastructure at the institute supports ICT
based Teaching-Learning, Research, Consultancy, Innovations and Startups.
The faculty and staff dedication towards Teaching Learning, Research, Innovation and Extension activities is
visible in all its achievements. VNRVJIET has garnered a significant number of awards and honors further
affirming its commitment to academic and research excellence. The increase in the number of Ph.D faculty has
increased its research capabilities and enhanced the expertise to mentor students in research endeavors. The
significant number of research projects, patents, high-quality publications in Scopus, Web of Science
demonstrates the research capability of the faculty.
VNRVJIET established an excellent rapport with the surrounding community emphasizing its commitment to
address the local needs, state and the nation through teaching, research, and extension activities. Thereby
fostering technological and socio-economic development to society.
The institution exposes the students to multiple dimensions of learning paths. Students are provided with
avenues for self learning, experiential and participatory learning. Students are engaged in multiple cocurricular,
extracurricular and extension activities to make them ready to real world environment. Institution believes that
implementing NEP-2020 creates opportunities for student community to be prepared for Industry 4.0
requirements and develop an emphatical and sustainable society.
The participatory and decentralized system of management at VNRVJIET instils a sense of belongingness and
ownership among the stakeholders. The participative management empowers individuals and ensures collective
efforts of the stakeholders towards institute’s success and growth. VNRVJIET is resolute in its commitment to
enhance its contribution to the state and the nation and create a positive impact on society through Engineering
Education.
Page 146/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Page 147/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
6.ANNEXURE
1.Metrics Level Deviations
Metric ID Sub Questions and Answers before and after DVV Verification
1.1.2 Percentage of Programmes where syllabus revision was carried out during the last five years.
1.1.2.1. Number of all Programmes offered by the institution during the last five years.
Answer before DVV Verification : 27
Answer after DVV Verification: 27
1.1.2.2. How many Programmes were revised out of total number of Programmes offered
during the last five years
Answer before DVV Verification : 27
1.2.1 Percentage of new courses introduced of the total number of courses across all programs
offered during the last five years.
1.2.1.1. How many new courses are introduced within the last five years
Answer before DVV Verification : 397
Answer after DVV Verification: 397
1.2.1.2. Number of courses offered by the institution across all programmes during the last
five years.
Answer before DVV Verification : 1150
1.3.2 Number of value-added courses for imparting transferable and life skills offered during last
five years.
1.3.2.1. How many new value-added courses are added within the last five years
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
78 66 35 79 64
Answer After DVV Verification :
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
47 53 24 60 64
Remark : Values updated as per attachment
1.3.3 Average Percentage of students enrolled in the courses under 1.3.2 above.
1.3.3.1. Number of students enrolled in subject related Certificate or Add-on programs year
wise during last five years
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
6228 5846 4159 4573 3535
Page 148/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Answer After DVV Verification :
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
6212 5732 4090 4695 3547
1.3.4 Percentage of students undertaking field projects/ internships / student projects (Data for the
latest completed academic year)
1.3.4.1. Number of students undertaking field projects / internships / student projects
Answer before DVV Verification : 5784
Answer after DVV Verification: 5766
2.1.2 Average percentage of seats filled against reserved categories (SC, ST, OBC, Divyangjan, etc.
as per applicable reservation policy ) during the last five years ( exclusive of supernumerary
seats)
2.1.2.1. Number of actual students admitted from the reserved categories year wise during
last five years
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
677 600 508 466 475
Answer After DVV Verification :
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
677 600 508 466 475
2.3.3 Ratio of students to mentor for academic and other related issues (Data for the latest completed
academic year )
2.3.3.1. Number of mentors ?????????????? ???????
Answer before DVV Verification : 336
Answer after DVV Verification: 336
2.4.3 Average teaching experience of full time teachers in the same institution (Data for the latest
completed academic year in number of years)
2.4.3.1. Total experience of full-time teachers
Answer before DVV Verification : 3325
Answer after DVV Verification: 3282
3.1.3 Percentage of teachers awarded national / international fellowship for advanced
studies/research during the last five years
3.1.3.1. The number of teachers awarded national / international fellowship for advanced
studies / research year wise during last five years
Page 149/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
35 10 16 17 10
Answer After DVV Verification :
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
10 16 23 8 9
3.2.1 Grants received from Government and non-governmental agencies for research projects,
endowments, Chairs in the institution during the last five years (INR in Lakhs)
3.2.1.1. Total Grants from Government and non-governmental agencies for research
projects , endowments, Chairs in the institution during the last five years (INR in Lakhs)
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
33.61 115.10 91.64 113.27 35.21
Answer After DVV Verification :
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
33.61 108.1 91.64 113.27 28.43
3.3.2 Number of workshops/seminars conducted on Research methodology, Intellectual Property
Rights (IPR),entrepreneurship, skill development during the last five years.
3.3.2.1. Total number of workshops/seminars conducted on Research methodology,
Intellectual Property Rights (IPR),entrepreneurship, skill development year-wise during the
last five years.
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
28 24 31 33 42
Answer After DVV Verification :
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
28 24 31 31 42
3.4.3 Number of research papers per teachers in the Journals notified on UGC website during the
last five years
3.4.3.1. Number of research papers in the Journals notified on UGC website during the last five
years
Page 150/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
417 304 306 232 245
Answer After DVV Verification :
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
291 205 244 144 117
Remark : Values updated as per attachment
3.4.4 Number of books and chapters in edited volumes / books published per teacher during the last
five years
3.4.4.1. Total number of books and chapters in edited volumes/books published and papers
in national/ international conference proceedings year-wise during last five years
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
339 302 212 137 163
Answer After DVV Verification :
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
339 302 212 137 163
3.5.1 Revenue generated from consultancy and corporate training during the last five years (INR in
Lakhs).
3.5.1.1. Total amount generated from consultancy and corporate training year-wise during
the last five years (INR in lakhs).
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
50.964 34.250 19.795 37.805 1.671
Answer After DVV Verification :
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
50.964 34.250 19.795 37.805 1.671
3.5.2 Total amount spent on developing facilities, training teachers and staff for undertaking
consultancy during the last five years (INR in Lakhs).
3.5.2.1. Total amount spent on developing facilities, training teachers and staff for
Page 151/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
undertaking consultancy during the last five years (INR in Lakhs)
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
75.11823 72.3851 94.34564 19.727 8.83693
Answer After DVV Verification :
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
77.73 70.34 74.18 23.74 8.837
3.6.2 Number of awards and recognition received by the Institution, its teachers and students for
extension activities from Government / Government recognised bodies during last five years
3.6.2.1. Total number of awards and recognition received for extension activities from
Government/ Government recognised bodies year-wise during the last five years.
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
23 4 9 27 4
Answer After DVV Verification :
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
1 0 1 1 0
Remark : value updated accordingly as per metric requirement
3.6.3 Number of extension and outreach programs conducted by the institution through NSS/NCC,
Government and Government recognised bodies during the last five years
3.6.3.1. Number of extension and outreach programs conducted by the institution through
NSS/NCC, Government and Government recognised bodies during the last five years
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
45 29 45 36 28
Answer After DVV Verification :
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
20 16 20 26 20
3.6.4 Average percentage of students participating in extension activities listed at 3.6.3 above during
the last five years
Page 152/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
3.6.4.1. Total number of students participating in extension activities listed at 3.6.3 above
year-wise during the last five years.
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
5971 3522 4737 4763 4601
Answer After DVV Verification :
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
3226 2097 3015 3064 3838
3.7.1 Number of Collaborative activities per year for research/ faculty exchange/ student exchange/
internship/ on –the-job training/ project work
3.7.1.1. Total number of Collaborative activities per year for research/ faculty exchange/
student exchange/ internship/ on –the-job training/ project work
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
806 358 142 164 139
Answer After DVV Verification :
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
251 125 80 65 45
3.7.2 Number of functional MoUs with institutions of national, international importance, other
institutions, industries, corporate houses etc. during the last five years (only functional MoUs
with ongoing activities to be considered)
3.7.2.1. Number of functional MoUs with institutions of national, international importance,
other Institutions, industries, corporate houses etc. year wise during last five years
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
22 6 13 14 14
Answer After DVV Verification :
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
22 6 13 14 14
4.1.4 Average percentage of expenditure for infrastructure augmentation excluding salary during
the last five years (INR in Lakhs)
Page 153/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
4.1.4.1. Expenditure for infrastructure augmentation, excluding salary year-wise during last
five years (INR in lakhs)
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
4553.99 879.87 615.19 365.74 2990.77
Answer After DVV Verification :
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
4553.99 879.87 615.19 365.74 2990.77
4.3.4 Institution has the following Facilities for e-content development
1. Media centre
2. Audio visual centre
3. Lecture Capturing System(LCS)
4. Mixing equipments and softwares for editing
Answer before DVV Verification : A. All of the above
Answer After DVV Verification: A. All of the above
4.4.1 Average percentage expenditure incurred on maintenance of physical facilities and academic
support facilities excluding salary component during the last five years
4.4.1.1. Expenditure incurred on maintenance of physical facilities and academic support
facilities excluding salary component year wise during the last five years (INR in lakhs)
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
2181.1 2545.14 1860.79 2133.64 2108.63
Answer After DVV Verification :
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
148.24 73.66 84.53 278.67 255.82
Remark : Values have been updated as per Expenses incurred on Repair and maintenance
5.1.2 Average percentage of students benefited by scholarships, freeships, etc. provided by the
institution and non-government agencies during the last five years
5.1.2.1. Number of students benefited by scholarships and free ships provided by the
institution, Government and non-government bodies, industries, individuals, philanthropists
during the last five years (other than students receiving scholarships under the government
schemes for reserved categories)
Page 154/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
360 269 207 176 192
Answer After DVV Verification :
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
192 176 207 269 360
5.3.1 Number of awards/medals won by students for outstanding performance in sports/cultural
activities at inter-university/state/national / international level (award for a team event should
be counted as one) during the last five years.
5.3.1.1. Number of awards/medals won by students for outstanding performance in sports /
cultural activities at inter-university / state / national / international events (award for a team
event should be counted as one) year - wise during the last five years.
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
81 14 42 67 47
Answer After DVV Verification :
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
81 14 42 67 47
5.3.3 Average number of sports and cultural events / competitions organised by the institution per
year
5.3.3.1. Number of sports and cultural events / competitions organised by the institution year
- wise during the last five years.
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
71 13 76 49 36
Answer After DVV Verification :
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
24 8 24 25 14
Remark : Updated as per attachment
6.5.3 Quality assurance initiatives of the institution include:
Page 155/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
1. Regular meeting of Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC); Feedback collected,
analysed and used for improvements
2. Collaborative quality initiatives with other institution(s)
3. Participation in NIRF
4. Any other quality audit recognized by state, national or international agencies (ISO
Certification)
Answer before DVV Verification : All of the above
Answer After DVV Verification: All of the above
7.1.7 The Institution has disabled-friendly, barrier free environment
1. Built environment with ramps/lifts for easy access to classrooms.
2. Divyangjan friendly washrooms
3. Signage including tactile path, lights, display boards and signposts
4. Assistive technology and facilities for Divyangjan accessible website, screen-reading
software, mechanized equipment
5. Provision for enquiry and information : Human assistance, reader, scribe, soft copies of
reading material, screen reading
Answer before DVV Verification : A. Any 4 or all of the above
Answer After DVV Verification: B. 3 of the above
7.1.10 The Institution has a prescribed code of conduct for students, teachers, administrators and
other staff and conducts periodic programmes in this regard.
1. The Code of Conduct is displayed on the website
2. There is a committee to monitor adherence to the Code of Conduct
3. Institution organizes professional ethics programmes for students, teachers,
administrators and other staff
4. Annual awareness programmes on Code of Conduct are organized
Answer before DVV Verification : A. All of the above
Answer After DVV Verification: A. All of the above
2.Extended Profile Deviations
ID Extended Questions
1.2 Number of outgoing / final year students year-wise during last five years
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
1325 1324 991 1216 1176
2.1 Number of courses in all programs year-wise during last five years
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
Page 156/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Self Study Report of VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
AND TECHNOLOGY
935 868 758 687 742
Answer After DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
935 868 758 687 742
2.2 Number of full time teachers year-wise during the last five years
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
362 359 340 335 332
Answer After DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
360 357 338 333 330
3.2 Number of seats earmarked for reserved category as per GOI/State Govt rule year-wise during
last five years
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
693 609 525 504 504
Answer After DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
693 609 525 504 504
3.4 Total number of computers in the campus for academic purpose
Answer before DVV Verification : 2770
Answer after DVV Verification : 2770
3.5 Total Expenditure excluding salary year-wise during last five years ( INR in Lakhs)
Answer before DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
6778.62 3469.20 2514.40 2542.93 5148.38
Answer After DVV Verification:
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18
5867.64 2820.30 1810.08 1821.63 4398.81
Page 157/157 17-04-2024 03:44:29
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org)
