Auditorium
Auditorium, etc.)
AuditoriumsThe institute has four air-conditioned auditoriums with seating
Billiards, Cricket, Football, Handball, Hockey, Kabaddi, Kho-Kho,
Canteen Committee:Continuous monitoring of hygiene
Class Review Committee (CRC):The faculty coordinator
Cricket, Football, Handball, Hockey, Kabaddi, Kho-Kho, Tennikoit,
Cultural ActivitiesThe institution recognizes the importance of cultural activities and
Department-level committees:
Details of facilities in Institution for cultural activities,
Disciplinary, Anti-Ragging, and Anti-Drug Committees:Students play crucial role in monitoring the campus activities for
Editorial Boards for Vignana Vahini and Vignana Vartha:Institute magazines an assortment of various academic, co-curricular,
Fest Organizing Committee:Organizing the annual
Fest, Sports fest etc. The other three are used for showcasing the
Games and Sports (Indoor Sports Facilities)The institute has state of the art sports complex named 'Kode
Global Vision and Social Responsibility”. Executing this are the 17
GymnasiumAn exclusive gymnasium is available in an area of 169 Square meters at
Healthy Body'.
Hostel Committee:A home away from home, the upkeep
House-The Project Expo”, and “Sports Fest”, without any hassle will be
Institute Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC):The
Internal Complaints Committee:The student members
International Day of Yoga, on June 21st every year. On that day the
Library and Information Resource Committee:The
Literary club, Crescendo-The Music club, Creative arts club,
Livewire-The dance club, Dramatics club, Nritya Tarang – The classical
Living Club to participate in service activities like organizing blood
Living foundation and Brahma Kumari’s on Yoga, meditation, and
Medical CentreA separate medical Center is available with a full-time Medical
Officer, Nurse, and adequate supply of medicines. The Centre ensures
Outdoor Sports FacilitiesThe institute has play fields over an area of 3.5 acres, which
Over and above, students are enthusiastic to join the social
Professional Societies/Chapters and 15 Student Clubs of the institute,
Sciences, Bachupally which is about 4Km from the institute and with
Sports Committee:Active participation of the student
Square meters with a trained Yoga teacher to guide both students and
Sri Sri Holistic Hospital, Nizampet about 8 Km from the institute. Any
Student Activity Centre (SAC)is an exclusive
Table Tennis, Tennikoit, Tennis, Throwball and Volleyball for both
Technical etc.
Tennis, Carroms, Chess, Gym and Yoga Centre. The sports complex has
Tennis, Throwball, Volleyball.The institute organizes All India inter-university level tournaments
The Institution has Adequate facilities for Cultural Activities,
The center is also equipped with an ambulance, oxygen concentrators
The co-curricular and extra-curricular expositions of these chapters
The institution spends approximately an amount of Rs.40 Lakhs per
TheStudent Council, a vital and integral part of the
VJ SPECTRAL PYRAMID, a differentiator practiced at VNR VJIET aims in
VJ Spectral Pyramid
VNR VJIET motivates and ensures students are an integral part of
VNRVJIET's commitment to provide adequate facilities for cultural
Various student clubs are established, Stentorian- The English
Venkatadri Chowdary Sports Complex (KVC Sports Complex)' with a
Yoga CentreThe institute has a dedicated Yoga Centre in an area of about 100
Yoga, Games (Indoor & Outdoor) and sports, (Gymnasium, Yoga Centre,
Yoga, Games (Indoor & Outdoor) and sports, Gymnasium, Yoga Centre,
accommodates outdoor games and sports like Athletics, Basketball,
actively engage in these clubs, practicing and participating in
actively participate. On the eve of the International Day of Yoga, the
activities play a significant role in enhancing the overall experience
activities, yoga, games and sports demonstrates its recognition of the
also available in both Boys and Girls hostels with the required number
also conducting awareness sessions for students about the and legal
also fosters personal transformation. The institution celebrates the
and 10 student representatives of the class, project conduct of
and Student Clubs.
and accolades in National and International tournaments.
and cylinders to serve the people with serious health conditions in
and extra-curricular activities and achievements are put into print by
and food quality, projecting the peer’s concerns will be the
and sports viz. Badminton, Basketball, Billiards &Snooker, Table
and well-being of students and staff.
and Girls hostels. The institute also organizes courses through Art of
artistic potential and professional competence. Thus, the activities
awareness of rural health and sanitation, adult education, and
best performers are rewarded to encourage further engagement and
better-defined path for their lifelong learning.
boys and girls every year. Qualified trainers provide state-of-the-art
breathing techniques.
bringing phenomenal changes in Academic, Administrative and Managerial
built-up area of 2,947 square meters, which accommodates indoor games
calendar and regulations.
capacity of 500, 300, 200 and 100 each. An open-air auditorium with a
capacity of 10,000 is used to organize Induction program, Cultural
classwork, delivery of lectures, and overall discipline, to Head of
community welfare. This is a platform for the students to express
competitions, where they have achieved success by winning awards and
concerns related to the availability of resources and renewals will be
control of the students, allowing them to design and devise activities
creativity, and the appreciation of different cultures. These
daily, and updating the faculty-incharge and the warden for the
dance club, Scintillate- The Photography club, VJ Teatro- The short
decision making in academic and administrative affairs. This will help
disciplinary, ragging, and substance abuse incidents, if any, while
discipline and also participate in decision-making pertaining to
donation camps, medical camps, health, hygiene, Yoga and improve
emergencies. The institute has MOU's with Mamata Academy of Medical
environmental responsibility in the community.
equipped with 21 modern Independent Stations. Separate Gym facility is
events of the institute, “Convergence-The Technical Fest”,
extracurricular activities. They also take part in national-level
facilities go beyond academics, allowing students and staff to engage
facility with a built-up area of 525 square meters to host both
faculty on various platforms.
faculty. Practicing yoga not only promotes physical well-being but
film club and VJ Sahithi Vanam- The Telugu literary club. Students
fitness and overall health of students and faculty. The Gym is
help students grow beyond academic pursuits and appreciate the
holistic development and well-roundedness of individuals. These
implications of ragging and substance abuse and ill effects thereof.
in various activities that contribute to personal growth, exploration
in various events, including Athletics, Badminton, Basketball,
initiatives.
institute conducts a special event where all students and faculty
keeping the campus vibrant.
life skills. The Institute follows the principle of 'Healthy Mind in
locker facility is also available for students and staff.
medical emergency requirements for both staff and students to use the
members are actively involved in the following Institute and
necessary for action.
nominated student member, involve in the scheduled periodical meetings
of Head of the Institute.
of IQAC, with inputs supporting the implementation of qualitative
of interests, a healthy lifestyle, and the development of essential
of stations.
participation. Exclusive Yoga centers are available in both Boys
prizes.
processes, greatly benefiting all its stake holders. The face of this
professional societies and cultural clubs. This place is under the
projected to see that the required books will be made available, and
provide the students ample opportunities to engage with experts and
provides adequate facilities to promote artistic expression,
pyramid is “Exponent for Development of a Rounded Personality with
representatives, provides input for adequacy of facilities and
responsibility clubs such as NSS Units, VNRSF, N-Army, and Art of
responsibility of this student body.
role in ensuring quality food and hygiene, monitoring all facilities
schedules the events calendar that contribute to Institute spirit and
scheduling of events without interference to the laid academic
services of these two hospitals.
spectrum of life on a wider canvas through the curated development of
student community, participates in the institute development and also
students and faculty. This facility caters to maintain physical
students strengthen their perception in the decisions made. Student
students’ professional and cultural talents.
successful individuals and organizations in various domains, leading
the Kode Venkatadri Chowdary Sports Complex (KVC Sports Complex) for
the concerns are addressed in time.
the department (HOD), for betterment action for class improvement.
the facility of changing rooms for both boys and girls separately. The
the responsibility of Student members of all Professional Societies
the student editorial team, showcasing the talents of their peer and
the students and staff have convenient access to healthcare services.
their ideas, interests, and concerns about the institute.
to their own personal as well as professional growth and paving a
training, and students have achieved notable success, winning medals,
under their respective clubs and societies.
voice the issues related to discrimination and bring it to the notice
will be best maintained by its stakeholders. Students play a major
year on organizing various fests such as Sports, Cultural,
“Sintillashunz-The Cultural Fest”, “Ecficio- Entrepreneur Fest”, “Open
