SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/R22/VNR-R22-BTech-Academic-Regulations-08-11-2023.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
(An Autonomous Institute)
ACADEMIC RULES AND REGULATIONS OF FOUR-YEAR
B.TECH. REGULAR DEGREE PROGRAMME APPLICABLE
FOR THE STUDENT BATCHES ADMITTED FROM THE
ACADEMIC YEAR 2022 – 2023
1.0 PREAMBLE:
Vallurupalli Nageswara Rao Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and
Technology (VNRVJIET) aims at achieving academic excellence by implementing
new initiatives in teaching-learning and evaluation processes. Based on the
directions of the University Grants Commission (UGC), New Delhi, All India Council
for Technical Education (AICTE), New Delhi and Jawaharlal Nehru Technological
University (JNTU) Hyderabad, VNRVJIET introduced the Choice Based Credit
System (CBCS) in both the under-graduate and post-graduate programmes
offered from the academic year 2015 – 2016. Keeping in view of the
standardization of the higher education system in India, VNRVJIET is continuing
the implementation of CBCS ahead. In line with the National Education Policy
(NEP) 2020, many of the NEP reforms and initiatives have been implemented
under these academic regulations and curriculum. Some of the initiatives are listed
below:
• B.Tech. Honor and Minor degrees
• Credit Transfer through SWAYAM-NPTEL
• Courses on Skill Development
• Mandatory Internships as part of curriculum
• Industry offered elective courses
• Track based Open elective courses in Emerging areas
• Course on Foreign language
• Courses on Professional Ethics and Human Values, Entrepreneurship
• Courses on environment, sustainability and gender sensitization
• Certificate courses
• Student Induction Program
2.0 SHORT TITLE, APPLICATION AND COMMENCEMENT:
• These regulations shall be called as the “VNRVJIET B.Tech. Choice Based
Credit System (CBCS) Academic Regulations, 2022”. In short, it shall be
referred as ‘VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R22 Regulations’.
• The regulations are quite comprehensive and include definitions of key terms,
semester system, credit system, grading system and other relevant details.
• The regulations detailed herein shall apply to all the regular and professional
under-graduate programmes offered by the Institute.
• These regulations shall be applicable and come into force to the student
1
batches admitted from the academic year 2022-2023 onwards.
• The Institute may revise, amend or change the regulations, scheme of
examinations and syllabi, from time to time, if found necessary and on
approval by the Academic Council of the Institute, keeping the
recommendations of the BoS in view.
• Any or all such amendments shall be effective from such date and to such
batches of students including those already undergoing the programme, as
may be approved through Academic Council of the Institute.
3.0 CHOICE BASED CREDIT SYSTEM:
• The Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) enables a student to obtain a degree
by accumulating the required number of credits prescribed for that degree.
Under the CBCS, the requirement for awarding a degree is prescribed in terms
of number of credits to be completed by the students. The number of credits
earned by the student reflects the knowledge or skill acquired by him / her.
Each course is assigned with a fixed number of credits based on the contents
to be learned. The student also has choice in selecting the courses out of those
offered by the various departments. The grade points earned for each of the
course reflects the student’s proficiency in that course.
• The CBCS provides the student flexibility in duration to complete a programme
of study. The CBCS facilitates transfer of credits earned in different
departments or institutions of higher education in India.
• The CBCS permits students to:
1. Choose electives from a wide range of elective courses offered by the
departments.
2. Undergo additional courses of interest.
3. Adopt an interdisciplinary approach in learning.
4. Make the best use of expertise of the available faculty.
4.0 ABBREVIATIONS:
Abbreviation Full Form
AAT Alternative Assessment Tool
AC Academic Council
AICTE All India Council for Technical Education
B.Tech. Bachelor of Technology
BIE Board of Intermediate Education
BL Bloom’s Level
BT Bloom’s Taxonomy
BoS Board of Studies
C Credit
CA Class Assessment
CBCS Choice Based Credit System
CBSS Credit Based Semester System
CGPA Cumulative Grade Point Average
CIE Continuous Internal Evaluation
2
CO Course Outcomes
CoE Controller of Examinations
CP Credit Point
D Drawing
DoA Dean of Academics
ELA Experiential Learning Assessment
G Grade
GO Government Order
GP Grade Point
HoD Head of the Department
IAC Institute Academic Committee
JNTUH Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad
L Lecture
LES Lateral Entry Scheme
M.Tech. Master of Technology
MOOC Massive Open Online Course
NAAC National Assessment and Accreditation Council
NBA National Board of Accreditation
NEP National Education Policy 2020
NPTEL National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning
OBE Outcome Based Education
P Practical
PG Post-Graduate
Ph.D. Doctor of Philosophy
PO Programme Outcomes
PSO Programme Specific Outcomes
SEE Semester End Examination
SGPA Semester Grade Point System
SWAYAM Study Webs of Active Learning for Young and Aspiring Minds
T Tutorial
UG Under-Graduate
UGC University Grants Commission
Vallurupalli Nageswara Rao Vignana Jyothi Institute of
VNRVJIET
Engineering & Technology
5.0 NOMENCLATURE:
S. Keywords Definition
No.
1. Academic Council: Highest academic body of the Institute and is
responsible for the maintenance of standards
of instruction, education and examination
within the Institute. Academic Council is an
3
authority as per the AICTE / UGC regulations
and has the right to take decisions on all
academic matters including academic
research.
2. Academic Plan: A document defining the course contents and
complete details of plan of delivery of the
course viz. Course title, Course code, Pre-
requisite, Credit structure, Team of
instructors, Course objectives, Course
outcomes, Mapping of course outcomes and
programmes outcomes, relevant syllabus,
textbook(s) and reference books, Course
session plan and delivery plan, evaluation
method, course notices and other course
related aspects.
3. Academic Year: A period that is necessary to complete
courses of study. It consists of two
consecutive (one odd + one even) semesters.
4. Admission Procedure: As prescribed by the Government of
Telangana.
5. Assessment: Assessment is one or more processes, carried
out by the Institution that identify collect and
prepare data to evaluate the achievement of
Program Educational Objectives and Program
Outcomes.
6. Audit Course: A course of study which has neither
evaluation component nor a grade.
7. Autonomous An Institute designated as 'Autonomous' by
Institute: University Grants Commission (UGC), New
Delhi in concurrence with the affiliating
University i.e., Jawaharlal Nehru
Technological University, Hyderabad and
Telangana State Government.
8. Backlog Course: A course is considered to be a backlog course
if the student has obtained a Fail (F) grade.
9. Basic Science Courses of foundational nature in the areas
Courses: of Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Biology
etc.
10. Betterment: Betterment is a way that contributes towards
improvement of the students’ grade in any
course(s). It can be done by either (a) re-
appearing or (b) re-registering for the
course.
11. Board of Studies: An authority, as defined in UGC regulations,
constituted by the Principal for each of the
department separately. The board is
responsible for curriculum design and update
in respect of all the programmes offered by a
department.
4
12. Branch: A discipline or specialization of a degree
programme like Civil Engineering, Mechanical
Engineering etc.
13. Certificate Course: A course that makes a student gain hands-on
expertise and skills required for holistic
development. It is a mandatory, non-credited
course for the award of degree.
14. Choice Based Credit A system which provides choice for students
System (CBCS): to select from the prescribed courses.
15. Compulsory Course: Course required to be undertaken for the
award of the degree as per the programme.
16. Continuous Internal Summative assessments used to evaluate
Evaluation (CIE): student learning, acquired skills, and
academic attainment during a course.
17. Course: A course offered for learning in a particular
semester by the Institute. These could be
theory / laboratory / project work / mini
project / internship etc. and may comprise of
lectures / tutorials / practicals / assignments
/ examination / viva-voce etc. All the courses
need not carry the same weightage. A course
is defined through course objectives and
course outcomes.
18. Course Outcomes Statements describing essential skills that
(CO): each and every student need to acquire at
the end of a course. They can be from 3 to 5
for all the courses.
19. Course Registration: Process of enrolling into a set of courses in a
semester of the programme.
20. Credit: A unit by which the course work is measured.
It determines the number of hours of
instructions required per week. One credit is
equivalent to one lecture hour of teaching
(lecture or tutorial) or two hours of practical
/ fieldwork per week.
21. Credit Based A system which prescribes the number of
Semester System credits to be secured by the student for the
(CBSS): requirement of award of degree.
22. Credit Point: A product of grade point and number of
credits for a course.
23. Credit Transfer: The procedure of granting credit(s) to a
student for course(s) undertaken online
through MOOC.
24. Cumulative Grade A measure of overall cumulative performance
Point Average of a student over all semesters. It is the ratio
(CGPA): of total credit points secured by a student in
various courses in all semesters and the sum
of the total credits of all courses in all the
semesters. It is expressed up to two decimal
places.
5
25. Curriculum: Curriculum incorporates all the courses that
are offered in a specific discipline. It also
indicates the planned interaction of students
with instructional content, materials and
resources.
26. Degree: A student who fulfills all the programme
requirements is eligible to receive a degree.
27. Department: An academic entity that conducts relevant
curricular and co-curricular activities,
involving both teaching and non-teaching
staff and other resources.
28. Detention: Student who does not secure minimum
required attendance in AGGREGATE shall be
detained OR Student who does not secure
minimum credits required for promotion from
one year to the next shall be detained.
29. Dropping of Courses: A student who does not want to register
certain courses should do so in writing in a
prescribed format within the time frame as
mentioned in these regulations.
30. Engineering Science Courses belonging to the basic evolutionary
Courses: aspects of engineering from Mechanical
Engineering, Electrical Engineering,
Computer Science etc. like Workshop
Practices, Engineering Graphics, Engineering
Drawing, Programming through C, Basics of
Electrical Energy for Engineers, Engineering
Mechanics, etc.
31. Evaluation: Evaluation is the process of judging the
academic work done by the student in his /
her courses. It is done through a combination
of continuous internal evaluation and
semester end examinations.
32. Field Project: A credit-based course that a student has to
undergo, as prescribed in the programme,
which involves the student to undertake
issues related to societal impact, problems
faced by industries, companies, and any
organizations which they encounter in their
day-to-day work related to the discipline.
33. Grade Point: A numerical weight allotted to each letter
grade on a 10-point scale.
34. Grade Sheet: Based on the grades earned, a grade sheet
shall be issued to all the registered students
after every semester. The grade sheet shall
display the course details (Course code,
Course title, number of credits, grade
secured) along with SGPA of that semester
and CGPA earned till that semester.
35. Humanities & Social Courses offered in the area of humanities and
Sciences Courses: liberal arts.
6
36. Industrial Visit: Visit to a company / firm as per the academic
requirement.
37. Industry Oriented A credit-based course that a student has to
Mini-Project undergo during a specified semester
involving exploration in a discipline belonging
to their research interest within their
programme of study.
38. Institute: VNRVJIET
39. Internship: A period of training / work experience offered
by an industry / research organization /
academic institution for a limited period of
time as specified in these regulations.
40. Laboratory based A student-centric learning methodology
Course Projects: wherein students work as individuals or in
teams in a laboratory for design, problem-
solving, decision making, and investigative
activities.
41. Letter Grade: An index of the performance of students in a
said course. Grades are denoted by letters
like O, A+, A, B+, B, C, F, Ab.
42. Mandatory Courses: Compulsory non-credit courses that a
student need to study as prescribed in the
programme.
43. Mapping Mapping is the process of representing the
correlation among the Course Outcomes and
program Outcomes and Program Specific
Outcomes in a matrix form.
44. Massive Open Online Open access online courses aimed at
Courses (MOOC): providing ways to learn new skills.
45. Open Elective Courses of interdisciplinary nature offered to
Courses: all the students of various programmes
across the Institute.
46. Outcome Based An educational theory wherein each part of
Education: an educational system is based around goals
(outcomes). Each student should have
achieved the goal by the end of the
educational experience.
47. Overloading: Registering for more number of credits than
normally prescribed by the programme in a
semester.
48. Pre-requisite: A course whose knowledge is required for
registration into higher level course.
49. Professional Core Courses that are fundamental constituents of
Courses: the respective engineering discipline.
50. Professional Elective Courses those are discipline specific.
Courses:
51. Programme: A set of courses offered by the department
leading to the award of degree in that
programme.
7
52. Programme Broad statements that describe the career
Educational and professional accomplishments that the
Objectives (PEO): program is preparing graduates to achieve.
53. Programme Outcomes Statements describing the essential skill sets
(PO): that each and every student need to possess
at the time of graduation. These skill sets
based on the graduate attributes as defined
by the National Board of Accreditation (NBA)
are in the areas of employability,
entrepreneurial, social, and behavioral
aspects. They are 12 in number for a specific
programme and are subjected to modification
from time to time as defined by the NBA.
54. Programme Specific Statements that describe what the graduates
Outcomes (PSO): of a specific programme should be able to do.
They can be 3 to 5 in number for a specific
programme.
55. Project: A credit-based course that a student has to
undergo, as prescribed in the programme,
which involves the student to undertake a
research or design that is carefully planned
to achieve a particular aim.
56. Re-appearing: A student can reappear only in the
supplementary semester end examination for
the external component of a course, subject
to the exam registration and the regulations
contained herein.
57. Regulations: The rules and regulations contained herein
that are common to all the B.Tech.
programmes offered by the Institute and
designated as “VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R22
Regulations”
58. Re-registering: A student desiring to repeat a course is
permitted to do so, subject to the regulations
contained herein.
59. Rubrics: Tool for assessment and grading for
measuring students’ performance and
learning.
60. Semester: Each semester shall consist of 16 weeks of
academic work excluding examination and
evaluation.
61. Semester End An examination conducted at the end of a
Examination: course of study i.e., after the completion of
instruction in a semester.
62. Semester Grade Point A measure of performance of work done in a
Average: semester. It is ratio of total credit points
secured by a student in various courses
registered in a semester and the total course
credits taken during that semester. It shall be
expressed up to two decimal places.
8
63. Skill Development A credit-based course offered for gaining
Course: experience in certain skills.
64. Substitute Courses: A course that is offered in place of another
course that is already studied by the student
and is repeated in the semester of study.
65. Underloading: Registering for lesser number of credits than
normally prescribed by the programme in a
semester.
66. University: Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University
Hyderabad
67. Virtual Laboratories: Web enabled experiments for remote
operation so as to increase the curiosity and
innovation of students and provide hands-on
experience.
6.0 UNDER-GRADUATE DEGREE PROGRAMMES ON OFFER:
VNRVJIET offers 4-year (8 semesters) Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) degree
programme, under Choice Based Credit System (CBCS), with effect from the
academic year 2022 - 2023 onwards, in the branches as shown in the Table 1.
Table 1 B.Tech. programmes of study on offer
S. No. B.Tech. Branch
1 Artificial Intelligence and Data Science
2 Automobile Engineering
3 Civil Engineering
4 Computer Science and Business Systems
5 Computer Science and Engineering
Computer Science and Engineering (Artificial Intelligence and
6
Machine Learning)
7 Computer Science and Engineering (Cyber Security)
8 Computer Science and Engineering (Data Science)
9 Computer Science and Engineering (IoT)
10 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
11 Electronics and Communication Engineering
12 Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
13 Information Technology
14 Mechanical Engineering
7.0 ELIGIBILITY FOR ADMISSION:
The eligibility criteria for admission into B.Tech. degree programmes offered at
VNRVJIET shall be as prescribed by the Government of Telangana. The criteria are
given below:
• The candidate shall be an Indian National / NRI.
• The candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st December of
the academic year for which the admissions are being conducted.
• The candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or
equivalent as on the date of admission recognized by BIE, Telangana State.
• Seats in each programme in the Institute are classified into two categories i.e.,
Category – A and Category – B as per the Government Orders.
9
• Category – A Seats
These seats shall be filled through counseling as per the rank secured by a
candidate in the Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by the Government of
Telangana and as per other admission criteria laid down in the Government
Orders.
• Category – B Seats
These seats shall be filled by the Institute as per the Government Orders issued
by the Government of Telangana from time to time.
• Direct Admission to Second Year: (Lateral Entry Scheme)
A candidate shall be admitted into the III semester (II year I semester) based
on the rank secured by the candidate in the Engineering Common Entrance Test
[ECET (For Diploma Holders)] by the Government of Telangana and as per other
admission criteria laid down in the Government Orders.
8.0 MEDIUM OF INSTRUCTION:
The medium of instruction for the entire B.Tech. programmes shall be English for
all the courses including their content delivery and examinations, seminars,
presentations, and project evaluation as prescribed in the programme curriculum.
9.0 B.TECH. PROGRAMME STRUCTURE:
The structure of the B.Tech. programmes on offer at VNRVJIET are based on the
Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) and Credit Based Semester System
(CBSS) as defined by the UGC and the curriculum / course structure as suggested
by the AICTE in its Model Curriculum.
Semester Scheme:
• The B.Tech. programmes offered at VNRVJIET follow semester scheme
pattern.
• The duration of a B.Tech. programme shall be of 4 academic years.
• Each academic year shall have 2 semesters i.e., odd and even semesters and
shall be counted as I semester, II semester, III semester, IV semester and so
on upto VIII semester.
• Each semester shall consist of 22 weeks (≥90 instructional days) of academic
work including examination and evaluation.
• Each semester is structured to provide credits totaling to 160 credits for the
entire B.Tech. programme.
• Each semester shall have ‘Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE)’ and
‘Semester End Examination (SEE).’
• Each student shall secure a total of 160 credits with a CGPA ≥ 5 required
for the completion of the B.Tech. programme and the award of the B.Tech.
degree.
• A student after securing admission into a B.Tech. programme at VNRVJIET shall
pursue and acquire the B.Tech. degree in a minimum period of four
academic years i.e., 8 semesters and a maximum period of eight
academic years i.e., 16 semesters starting from the date of commencement
of I semester (I year I semester), failing which the student shall forfeit the seat
in B.Tech. programme.
10
10.0 DURATION OF THE ACADEMIC PROGRAMMES:
• Under CBCS, programme duration shall be defined by the period in which a
student earns the prescribed credits for the award of B.Tech. degree.
❖ Normal Duration:
• The duration of the B.Tech. degree programme shall be four years.
• The duration of the B.Tech. degree programme for students admitted under
lateral entry scheme (LES) shall be three years.
❖ Maximum Duration:
• The maximum period in which a student can complete a full time B.Tech.
degree programme shall be twice the normal duration of the programme,
i.e., eight years (16 semesters) for B.Tech. degree and six years (12
semesters) for students admitted under lateral entry scheme (LES)
i.e., (For Diploma Holders) respectively.
• The maximum period for a programme shall also be dictated by the fact that a
student has to demonstrate the prescribed minimum academic performance by
registering for the prescribed number of credits in every semester, for
continuing in the programme. This period can be equal to or lesser than the
maximum period indicated as indicated above.
11.0 COURSES AND CREDIT STRUCTURE:
• Every course in the B.Tech. programme of study has a Lecture-Tutorial-
Practical (L-T-P) component attached to it. Based upon the L-T-P structure, the
credits are allotted to a course using the criteria as shown in the Table 2.
Table 2 Contact hour and credit structure
Contact Hours
Type of Course Component Credits (C)
/ Week
Lecture (L) 1 1
Theory
Tutorial (T) 1 1
Laboratory Practical (P) 2 1
Drawing / Design Drawing / Design (D) 2 1
• Courses like Induction Programme, Environmental Science, Intellectual
Property Rights, Happiness and Well Being, Ancient Wisdom, Gender
Sensitization, Constitution of India are mandatory audit courses. These courses
shall not carry any credits.
• Every course of the B.Tech. programme shall be offered by a specific section /
department. The unique codes of the section / department offering the courses
are given in the Table 3.
11
Table 3 Course offering section / department
Course Offering Section / Department Code
Physics PH
Chemistry CH
English EN
Mathematics MT
Management MG
Humanities & Social Sciences HS
Civil Engineering CE
Electrical & Electronics Engineering EE
Mechanical Engineering ME
Electronics & Communication Engineering EC
Computer Science & Engineering CS
Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering EI
Information Technology IT
Automobile Engineering AE
Computer Science & Business Systems CB
Computer Science and Engineering (Artificial Intelligence and Machine
AM
Learning)
Computer Science and Engineering (Cyber Security) CY
Computer Science and Engineering (Data Science) DS
Computer Science and Engineering (IoT) IN
Artificial Intelligence and Data Science AD
❖ Structure:
• Every B.Tech. programme of study shall be designed to have theory and
laboratory courses. In addition, a student shall carry out skill development
course, field project, internship, industry oriented mini-project, project, design
thinking and other courses as prescribed in the curriculum of the programmes.
• Every course offered under a B.Tech. programme shall be placed in one of the
course categories with minimum credits as listed in the Table 4.
• The course group / category along with their broad classification and
description are listed in the Table 5.
12
Table 4 Category of Courses, their Codes and Distribution of Credits
Range Credit
Type of Courses Course Category Code of Composition
Credits (%)
Engineering
ES 16-25 10-16
Science
Basic Science BS 18-22 11-14
Foundation
Humanities & Social
Compulsory
Courses Science Incl. HS 8-11 5-6.9
Management
Core Professional Core PC 60-68 38-43
Project Project PW 16 10
Professional
PE 18 11
Elective
Elective Courses
Open Elective OE 12 7.5
Non-
Mandatory Audit Courses Mandatory MN --
Credit
Total 160
MOOC Online OL -- --
--
Virtual Laboratories Online VL --
Table 5 Description of Courses
Broad Course Course Group /
Description of Courses
Classification Category
Basic Sciences Includes mathematics, physics, chemistry
(BS) and biology courses
Engineering
Includes fundamental engineering courses
Sciences (ES)
Foundation
Humanities and
Includes courses related to humanities,
Social Sciences
social sciences and management
(HS)
Includes core courses related to the parent
Professional
discipline / department / branch of
Core (PC)
engineering
Project Work
B.Tech. project stage-I and stage-II
(PW)
Skill
Development
Core Courses /
Field Project /
Skill Development Courses / Field Project /
Industry
Industry Training / Internship / Industry
Training /
oriented mini project / Design thinking
Internship /
Industry
Oriented Mini
project
13
Includes elective courses related to the
Professional
parent discipline / department / branch of
Electives (PE)
engineering
Elective courses which include inter –
Elective
Open Electives disciplinary courses or courses in an area
(OE) outside the parent discipline / department /
branch of engineering
Mandatory non-credit courses like Induction
Programme, Environmental Science,
Mandatory Mandatory (MN) Intellectual Property Rights, Happiness and
Wellness, Ancient Wisdom, Gender
Sensitization, Constitution of India
12.0 REGISTRATION / DROPPING/ OFFERING OF COURSE(S):
❖ Course Registration:
• All the students must compulsorily register for course work at the beginning of
each semester as per the schedule mentioned in the Academic Calendar.
• It is essential for the students to register for all the prescribed courses in time.
• The registration shall be organized by the department under the supervision of
the Head of the Department.
• Every course may have one or more of its preceding course(s) as
prerequisite(s).
• A ‘faculty advisor or mentor or counselor’ shall be assigned to a group of 20
students, who shall advise them about the B.Tech. programme, its course
structure and curriculum, choice / option for course / courses, based on their
competence, progress, pre-requisites if any and interest.
• The academic section of the college shall invite ‘registration forms’ from
students before the beginning of the semester through ‘on-line registration,’
ensuring ‘date and time stamping’.
• The on-line registration requests for any ‘current semester’ shall be
completed before the commencement of SEEs (Semester End
Examinations) of the ‘preceding semester.’
• A student shall register courses online with the approval of faculty advisor or
mentor or counselor.’ A copy of it shall be retained by the student and other
copies be submitted online to the concerned HoD, faculty mentor and Dean of
Academics.
• A student may be permitted to register for all the courses in a semester with
credits as prescribed in the course structure of the concerned B.Tech.
programme with maximum additional course(s) limited to 6 credits (any 2
elective courses), based on the progress and SGPA / CGPA, and completion of
the ‘pre-requisites’ as indicated for various courses, in the course structure of
the programmes and syllabus contents.
• Choice for ‘additional courses’, not more than any 2 elective courses in any
semester, must be clearly indicated, which needs the specific approval and
signature of the faculty advisor or mentor or counselor and HoD.
• Additional courses shall be offered only upon meeting the prerequisites, if any,
as mentioned in the programme curriculum.
• If the student submits ambiguous choices or multiple options or
erroneous entries during on-line registration of the courses as listed
in the course structure, only the first mentioned course shall be taken
14
into consideration and shall be treated as FINAL choice.
• Course options exercised through ‘on-line registration’ shall be FINAL
and cannot be changed or inter-changed; further, alternate choices
also shall not be considered.
• However, if the course that has already been listed for registration by the Head
of the Department in a semester could not be offered due to any unforeseen
or unexpected reasons, then the student shall be allowed to have alternate
choice either for a new course (subject to offering of such a course), or for
another existing course (subject to the availability of seats). Such alternate
arrangements shall be made by the Head of the Department, with due
notification and time-frame schedule, within the first week after the
commencement of classwork for that semester.
• IN ABSENTIA registration shall not be permitted under any circumstance.
• At the time of registration, students should have cleared all the dues
of Institute and Hostel (if applicable) in the previous semesters, paid
the prescribed fees for the current semester and not been debarred
from Institute for a specified period on disciplinary or any other
ground.
❖ Open Elective Courses:
• The students have to choose one open elective course (OE-I) in V
semester, one (OE-II) in VI semester, one (OE-III) in VII semester
and one (OE-IV) in VIII semester from the list of open electives offered by
other departments and as prescribed in the course structure of the programme.
• However, the student cannot opt for an open elective course offered by
his/her own (parent) department, if it is already listed under any category
of the courses offered by parent department in any semester.
• Open elective courses that are already studied by a student cannot be
pursued again/repeated even if offered.
• Open elective courses should not match with any course category (Professional
Core, Professional Electives, Mandatory Courses etc.) even in the forthcoming
semesters.
❖ Professional Elective Courses:
• Students shall register for a total of 06 professional elective courses (PE-
I to PE-VI) from the list of professional elective courses as prescribed in the
course structure of the programme.
• Compulsory core courses can be chosen by the students of the respective
disciplines only.
• However, the students of a particular discipline can register for discipline /
interdisciplinary courses of other disciplines provided they have met the pre-
requisite or when the pre-requisite is waived by Dean of Academics. Courses
that are already studied by a student cannot be pursued again/repeated even
if offered.
• In case of options from students of other departments/branches/disciplines for
professional elective courses (not open elective courses), first priority shall
be given to the student of the parent department.
❖ Dropping of Courses:
• Dropping of one or more courses may be permitted, only after obtaining prior
approval from the faculty advisor or mentor or counselor (subject to retaining
of minimum credits as prescribed in these regulations), ‘within a period of
15
15 days’ from the beginning of the current semester for maintaining
studentship.
• The dropped courses are not recorded in the Grade Card.
• Student must complete the dropped course by registering them as and when
offered in the next semester in order to earn the required credits. This is in
addition to the minimum number of credits that are required to continue
studentship in a semester. However, the total credits registered in a semester
should not exceed the maximum number of credits permitted to register in that
semester.
❖ Courses to be Offered:
• A typical section (or class) strength for each semester shall be 60.
• A course may be offered to the students, only if a minimum of 15 students
opts for it. The maximum strength of a section is limited to 80 (60 + 1/3 of
the section strength).
• More than one faculty member may offer the same course in any semester.
• Laboratory / practical may be included with the corresponding theory course
in the same semester.
• However, in case of elective courses, selection / allotment of courses,
based on the choice for students, shall be based on – ‘FIRST COME
FIRST SERVE and CGPA criterion’ basis in the ON-LINE registration
mode.
• If more entries for registration of a course are received, then the HoD
concerned shall decide, whether or not to offer such a course for two (or
multiple) sections keeping in view the resources available in the department
offering the course.
13.0 ATTENDANCE REQUIREMENTS AND DETENTION POLICY:
• A student shall maintain a minimum required attendance of 75% in
AGGREGATE to be eligible to appear for the Semester End Examinations.
• Minimum required attendance of 75% shall be maintained in all the mandatory
courses offered in a semester like Induction Programme, Environmental
Science, Intellectual Property Rights, Happiness and Well Being, Ancient
Wisdom, Gender Sensitization, Constitution of India etc.
• Two periods of attendance for each theory course shall be considered if a
student appears for the sessional examination of that course.
• Shortage of attendance upto 10% i.e., attendance between 65% to 75% in
aggregate, may be condoned by the Institute Academic Committee based on
the rules prescribed by the Institute Academic Committee from time to time.
• Shortage of attendance below 65 % shall in NO CASE be condoned.
• A stipulated fee, as fixed by the Institute, shall be payable towards condonation
of shortage of attendance.
• Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned OR who have
not paid the stipulated fee OR who have not cleared any other fee dues
to the Institute in any semester are not eligible to write the Semester
End Examination (SEE).
• Students, who do not meet the minimum required attendance in a
semester, shall be detained in that semester and their registration for that
semester shall stand cancelled, including all academic credentials
(internal marks etc.) of that semester. They shall not be promoted to
the next semester.
• Students detained in a semester shall seek re-admission into that semester as
16
and when offered again.
• Academic regulations applicable to the semester in which re-admission is
sought shall be applicable to the re-admitted student.
• In case if there are any professional electives and/or open electives, the same
may also be re-registered if offered. However, if those electives are not offered
in the later semesters, then alternate electives may be chosen from the same
set of elective courses offered under that category.
• Any student against whom any disciplinary action is pending shall not be
permitted to attend semester end examination (SEE) in that semester.
• A student fulfilling the attendance requirement in the present
semester shall not be eligible for re-admission into the same class.
14.0 MINIMUM ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS:
• In addition to the attendance requirements mentioned in 13.0 of these
regulations for the award of B.Tech. degree, a student must satisfy the
minimum academic requirements as given below:
• A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic
requirements and earned the credits for each theory, practical, design and
drawing course in B.Tech. programme, if student secures
✓ A minimum of 35% marks (14 marks out of 40 marks) for each course
in the continuous internal evaluation (CIE)
✓ A minimum of 35% marks (21 marks out of 60 marks) for each course
in the semester end examination (SEE), and
✓ A minimum of 40% marks (40 marks out of 100 marks) for each
course considering both CIE and SEE taken together.
✓ In terms of letter grades, a ‘C’ grade and above in that course.
✓ A student is eligible to write Semester End Examination of the
concerned course, if the student scores ≥ 35% marks (i.e., 14 marks
out of 40 marks) in CIE.
✓ In case, the student appears for Semester End Examination (SEE)
of the concerned course but fails to score minimum 35% marks
in CIE (i.e., 14 marks out of 40 marks), then his/her performance
in that course in SEE shall stand cancelled inspite of student
appearing for the SEE.
• A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic
requirements and earned the credits allotted to I year - Elements of
CE/EEE/ME/ECE/CSE/EIE/IT/AE courses and II year – Field Project
courses, if student secures
• A minimum of 40% of total marks (20 marks out of 50 marks) in CIE
• A student shall be treated as failed, if he
✓ remains absent during the schedule in I year – Elements … and II year
- Field project courses, OR
✓ secures less than 40% marks (20 marks out of 50 marks) in I year
– Elements … and II year - Field project courses, OR
✓ does not submit a report in Field project courses OR
✓ does not make a presentation of the same before the evaluation
committee as per the schedule in Field project courses
• A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic
requirements and earned the credits allotted to Internship, Industry
oriented mini-project, Project, Design thinking courses, if student secures
✓ A minimum of 40% of total marks (40 marks out of 100 marks) in
17
each of the Internship, Industry oriented mini-project, Project and Design
thinking courses
• A student shall be treated as failed, if he
✓ does not submit a report in Internship, Industry oriented mini-project,
OR
✓ does not make a presentation of the same before the evaluation
committee as per the schedule, OR
✓ secures less than 40% marks (40 marks out of 100 marks) in overall
evaluation in Internship/Industry oriented mini project.
✓ In case of a student not meeting any of the above points, student may
re-appear once for each of the evaluation of Field project, Internship,
Industry oriented mini-project, as scheduled by the evaluation
committee; if the student fails in such ‘one re-appearance’ evaluation
also, student has to re-appear for the same in the next subsequent
semester, as and when it is scheduled.
• In order to successfully complete the B.Tech. degree programme, a student
shall
o register for all the courses covering 160 credits as specified and listed in
the course structure of the B.Tech. programme,
o fulfills all the attendance and academic requirements for 160 credits,
o ‘earn all 160 credits’ by securing SGPA ≥ 5.0 (in each semester) and
CGPA ≥ 5.0 (at the end of each successive semester)
o passes all the mandatory courses
• The performance of the student in these 160 credits shall be considered for the
calculation of the final CGPA (at the end of the B.Tech. programme) and shall
be indicated in the grade card/marks memo of VIII semester (IV year II
semester).
• If a student registers for ‘extra courses’ (in the parent department or other
departments/branches of Engineering) other than those listed courses totaling
to 160 credits as specified in the course structure of his department, then the
performances in those ‘extra courses’ (although evaluated and graded using the
same procedure as that of the required 160 credits) shall not be considered
while calculating the SGPA and CGPA. For such ‘extra courses’ registered,
percentage of marks and letter grade alone shall be indicated in the grade card
/ marks memo as a performance measure, subject to completion of the
attendance and academic requirements as stated in items 13 and 14 above in
these regulations.
• If a student fails to secure a pass grade in a particular course, it is mandatory
that he shall register and reappear for the examination in that course during
the next semester when SEE is conducted in that course. It is mandatory that
he should continue to register and reappear for the examination till he secures
a pass grade.
• A student eligible to appear in SEE of any course but remains absent from it or
gets failed (failing to secure ‘C’ grade or above) may reappear for that course
in the supplementary SEE as and when conducted. In such cases, CIE assessed
earlier for that course shall be carried over and added to the marks to be
obtained in the supplementary SEE examination for evaluating the
performance in that course.
• A student detained in a semester due to shortage of attendance, may
be re-admitted into the same semester in the next academic year for
fulfillment of the academic requirements. Academic regulations applicable
to the semester in which re-admission is sought shall be applicable to the re-
18
admitted student. However, no grade allotments or SGPA/ CGPA calculations
shall be done for the entire semester in which the student has been detained.
• A student detained due to lack of credits, shall be promoted to the next
year only after acquiring the required academic credits. Academic
regulations applicable to the semester in which promotion is sought shall be
applicable to the re-admitted student.
• A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all
160 credits and earn all 160 credits for the award of B.Tech. degree.
• The student shall be qualified in two certificate courses of 40 hours
duration each during his course of study. Out of the two certificate courses,
atleast one certificate course shall be pursued through MOOCs platform
like SWAYAM-NPTEL online courses, Coursera online courses, BEC
certification courses etc.
• Students who fail to earn atleast 160 credits as indicated in the course
structure within eight academic years counting from the year of their
admission shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech. programme and their
admission stands cancelled.
15.0 PROMOTION RULES:
• Apart from the minimum required attendance conditions as specified
in 13.0 of these regulations, the credit conditions to be fulfilled by a
student for getting promoted from the current semester to the next semester
are given in the Table 6.
Table 6 Promotion Rules
S.
Promotion Conditions to be fulfilled
No.
1 I semester (I year I i. Regular course of study of I semester
semester) to II semester (I (I year I semester)
year II semester)
2 II semester (I year i . R e g u l a r c o u r se of study of II semester
II semester) to III semester (I year II semester).
(II year I semester) ii. Must have secured atleast 50 % of
the total credits upto II semester
(I year II semester) i.e., 20
credits out of 40 credits of the
respective programme from all the
relevant regular and supplementary
examinations, whether the student
takes those examinations or not.
3. III semester (II year I i. Regular course of study of III semester
semester) to IV semester (II (II year I semester).
year I semester)
4 IV semester (II year II i. Regular course of study of IV semester
semester) to V semester ( I I y e a r II semester).
(III year I semester) ii. Must have secured atleast 60% of
the total credits upto IV semester
(II year II semester) i.e., 48
credits out of 80 credits of the
respective programme from all the
relevant regular and supplementary
19
examinations, whether the student
takes those examinations or not.
5 V semester (III year I i. Regular course of study of V semester
semester) to VI semester (III (III year I semester).
year II semester)
6 VI semester (III year i . R e g u l a r c o u r s e of study of VI semester
II semester) to VII semester (III year II semester).
(IV year I semester) ii. Must have secured atleast 60% of
the total credits upto VI semester
(III year II semester) i.e., 72
credits out of 120 credits of the
respective programme from all the
relevant regular and supplementary
examinations, whether the student
takes those examinations or not.
7 VII semester (IV year i. R e g u la r c o urse of study of VII
I semester) to VIII semester semester (IV year I semester)
(IV year II semester)
16.0 DISTRIBUTION OF MARKS AND EVALUATION METHODOLOGY:
• The performance of a student in each semester shall be evaluated course wise
with a maximum of 100 marks for theory and practical courses. I year
course on Elements of Civil Engineering/Electrical & Electronics
Engineering/Mechanical Engineering/Electronics & Communication
Engineering/Computer Science & Engineering/Automobile
Engineering and II year course on Field Project shall be evaluated for 50
marks. In addition, design thinking, internship, industry oriented mini-project,
project stage-I and project stage-II courses shall be evaluated for 100 marks
each.
16.1 Theory Courses:
• The syllabus for the theory courses shall be divided into FIVE units and each
unit carries equal weightage in terms of marks distribution.
• For theory courses, the distribution of marks shall be 40 marks for
Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE) and 60 marks for the
Semester End Examination (SEE).
❖ Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE - 40 M):
• Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE) shall consist of sessional examination (SE
- 30 M), Class Assessment (CA - 05 M) and Experiential Learning Assessment
(ELA – 05 M).
➢ Sessional Examination (SE - 30 M):
• For theory courses, two sessional examinations (SE-I and SE-II) shall be
conducted in each semester as per the academic calendar. Each sessional
examination shall be evaluated for 30 marks.
20
• The time duration of each SE shall be 2 hours.
• Question paper pattern for SE (30 Marks) shall be as follows:
PART-A: 5 X 2 M = 10 M
a. All questions are compulsory.
b. 02 questions from Unit-I and Unit-II each and 01 question from first half of
Unit-III in First sessional examination (SE-I)
c. 01 question from second half of Unit-III and 02 questions from Unit-IV and
Unit-V each in Second sessional examination (SE-II)
PART-B: 20 M
a. There shall be a total of 06 questions.
b. There shall be two questions from each UNIT with internal choice i.e.,
‘either’ ‘or’ choice.
c. Student shall answer one question from each UNIT.
d. Part-B Paper pattern is as follows:
Q.1 8 M
UNIT-I OR
Q.2 8 M
Q.3 8 M
Sessional Examination
UNIT-II OR
– I (SE-I)
Q.4 8 M
Q.5 4 M
UNIT-III OR
Q.6 4 M
Q.1 4 M
UNIT-III OR
Q.2 4 M
Q.3 8 M
Sessional Examination
UNIT-IV OR
– II SE-II)
Q.4 8 M
Q.5 8 M
UNIT-V OR
Q.6 8 M
• First sessional examination (SE-I) shall be conducted on Unit-I, Unit-II and first
half of the Unit-III.
• Second sessional examination (SE-II) shall be conducted on second half of the
Unit-III, Unit-IV and Unit-V.
• Average of two SEs shall be calculated and used as the final sessional marks
for each course.
21
➢ Class Assessment (CA - 05 M):
• Two class assessments consisting of any one of the alternative assessment
tools (AAT) like online quiz / assignment / objective exam etc. shall be
conducted covering the syllabus that is completed at the time of conducting
the CA and evaluated for 05 marks each.
• The first and second CAs shall be conducted during the instruction days as per
the academic calendar.
• Average of two CAs shall be calculated and used as the final class assessment
marks.
• The valuation and verification of answer scripts of CIE shall be completed within
a week after the conduct of the examination.
➢ Experiential Learning Assessment (ELA - 05 M):
• Course project / course viva-voce / poster presentation / case study
in the concerned course shall be conducted before Sessional Examination-I
(SE-I) and Sessional Examination-II (SE-II) and evaluated for 05 marks.
• Average of two ELAs shall be calculated and used as the final sessional marks
for each course.
❖ Semester End Examination (SEE - 60 M):
• The SEE shall be conducted at the end of semester for a total of 60 marks.
• The time duration of the SEE shall be 3 hours.
• The syllabus for the theory courses shall be divided into FIVE units and
each unit carries equal weightage in terms of marks distribution.
• Question paper pattern for SEE (60 Marks) shall be as follows:
PART-A: 5 X 2 M = 10 M
a. There shall be one question from each UNIT.
b. All questions are compulsory.
PART-B: 5 X 10 M = 50 M
a. There shall be two questions from each unit with internal choice i.e.,
‘either’ ‘or’ choice.
b. The student shall answer one question from each UNIT.
c. There could be a maximum of two subdivisions in a question i.e., (a) and/or
(b).
16.2 Practical Courses:
• For practical courses, there shall be a continuous internal evaluation (CIE)
during the semester for 40 marks and 60 marks for semester end
examination (SEE).
• CIE (40 marks) shall consist of
✓ Day-to-day 10 marks
✓ Laboratory record 10 marks
✓ Internal practical examination 10 marks
✓ Course project consists of Design or 10 marks
Software / Hardware Model presentation or
App Development or Prototype development etc.
• SEE shall be conducted at the end of semester for a total of 60 marks.
• The time duration of the SEE shall be 3 hours.
22
• SEE (60 marks) shall consist of
✓ Initial procedures & diagrams 10 marks
✓ Conduct of experiment & collection of data 15 marks
✓ Analysis of data / results / graphs etc. 15 marks
✓ Course project report 10 marks
✓ Viva-voce on concerned laboratory course 10 marks
• SEE shall be conducted by two examiners, one internal and other external
concerned with the subject area from the same / other department / Industry.
NOTE:
• Any student who shall remain absent for any of the CIE, for any reason
whatsoever, shall be deemed to have secured ‘zero’ marks in the
examination and no makeup examination shall be conducted.
16.3 Supplementary Semester End Examinations:
• Supplementary examinations shall be conducted along with regular semester
end examinations (SEE).
• During SEE of even semester, supplementary examinations of odd semester
shall be conducted and during SEE of odd semester, supplementary
examinations of even semester shall be conducted.
16.4 Drawing and / or Design Courses:
• For drawing courses like Engineering Graphics, Engineering Drawing, Computer
Aided Engineering Graphics, Mechanical Drawing Practice etc., there shall be
continuous internal evaluation (CIE) for 40 marks and 60 marks for
semester end examination (SEE).
• CIE (40 marks) shall consist of
✓ Day-to-day 10 marks
✓ Sessional examinations (Two) 20 marks
✓ Course project 10 marks
• Sessional examination shall be conducted in each semester as per the
academic calendar.
• Sessional examination (20 Marks) shall have a total of 06 questions.
• There shall be two questions from each UNIT with internal choice i.e.,
‘either’ ‘or’ choice.
• Student shall answer one question from each UNIT.
• Paper pattern is as follows:
Q.1 8 M
UNIT-I OR
Sessional Examination Q.2 8 M
– I (SE-I) Q.3 8 M
UNIT-II OR
Q.4 8 M
23
Q.5 4 M
UNIT-III OR
Q.6 4 M
Q.1 4 M
UNIT-III OR
Q.2 4 M
Q.3 8 M
Sessional Examination
UNIT-IV OR
– II SE-II)
Q.4 8 M
Q.5 8 M
UNIT-V OR
Q.6 8 M
• First sessional examination (SE-I) shall be conducted on Unit-I, Unit-II and first
half of the Unit-III
• Second sessional examination (SE-II) shall be conducted on second half of the
Unit-III, Unit-IV and Unit-V.
• Average of two SEs shall be calculated and used as the final sessional marks
for each course.
• SEE shall be conducted at the end of semester for a total of 60 marks.
• The time duration of each SE shall be of 3 hours duration.
• The syllabus for the drawing courses is divided into FIVE units and each unit
carries equal weightage in terms of marks distribution.
• Question paper pattern for SEE (60 Marks) is as follows.
5 X 12 M = 60 M
a. There shall be two questions from each UNIT with internal choice i.e.,
‘either’ ‘or’ choice.
b. The student shall answer one question from each UNIT.
c. There could be a maximum of two sub-divisions in a question i.e., (a) and/or
(b).
16.5 I year - Elements of CE/EEE/ME/ECE/CSE/EIE/AE Courses:
• There shall be an elementary course in the respective discipline in I year like
Elements of Civil Engineering / Elements of Electrical and Electronics
Engineering / Elements of Mechanical Engineering / Elements of Electronics
and Communication Engineering / Elements of Computer Science and
Engineering / Elements of Electronics and Instrumentation / Elements of
Automobile Engineering.
• These courses shall have continuous internal evaluation only for 50
marks.
• CIE (50 marks) shall consist of
✓ Day-to-day 10 marks
✓ Internal practical examination 10 marks
✓ Laboratory record 10 marks
✓ Course project 10 marks
✓ Viva-voce 10 marks
24
• Student shall have to earn a minimum of 40% marks, i.e., 20 marks out
of 50 marks for passing the course.
• There shall be no external evaluation.
16.6 II year – Field Project Course:
• There shall be a field-based research project course in II year.
• This course shall have continuous internal evaluation only for 50 marks.
• The internal evaluation shall be on the basis of two seminars for 50 marks
one before SE-I and other before SE-II as defined in the academic calendar.
• Average of marks secured in two seminars shall be calculated and used
as the final sessional marks.
• Student shall have to earn a minimum of 40% marks, i.e., 20 marks out
of 50 marks from average of the two seminars.
• There shall be no external evaluation (SEE).
• A student shall be treated as failed, if he
✓ does not submit a report on the project, OR
✓ does not make a presentation of the same before the internal committee
as per the schedule, OR
✓ secures less than 40% marks (20 marks out of 50 marks)
16.7 Design Thinking Course:
• ‘Design Thinking’ course leading to independent project shall be evaluated
based on capstone project for 100 marks.
• Evaluation of the course shall consist of both CIE and SIE.
• CIE shall be evaluated for 40 marks by a committee consisting of Head of the
Department, course coordinator/teacher and senior faculty member of the
department.
• CIE shall be made on the basis of two seminars conducted and as per the
evaluation format provided by the DoA.
• SEE shall be evaluated for 60 marks by a committee consisting of Head of the
Department, course coordinator/teacher and an external expert from industry.
• As part of the evaluation, a student shall submit a detailed report regarding
the design idea and its conception into a prototype/simulation model etc.
16.8 Internship / Industry Oriented Mini-Project:
• There shall be a summer internship / industry oriented mini-project
course.
• Internship shall be carried out at reputed industry/research
organization/academic institution.
• Industry oriented mini-project shall be carried out in collaboration with an
industry of their specialization.
• Student shall register for this course immediately after IV semester (II year II
semester) End Examinations and pursue it during summer vacation/semester
break & during III Year without affecting the regular course work.
• Course shall be evaluated for 100 marks in the VI semester (III year II
semester).
• There shall be NO internal marks (NO CIE) for this course.
• A student shall submit a detailed report and present it before the committee
for evaluation.
• Evaluation shall be done by a committee consisting of an external examiner,
Head of the Department, supervisor of industry oriented mini-project or
internship, internal supervisor and a senior faculty member of the department.
25
16.9 Project:
• A student shall initiate major project in VII semester (IV year I semester) and
continue it in the VIII semester (IV year II semester).
• Project shall be carried out in two stages i.e. stage-I in the VII semester and
stage-II in the VIII semester.
• Project shall be evaluated for a total of 200 marks. Out of which, project
stage-I shall be evaluated for 100 marks in VII semester and project
stage-II for 100 marks in VIII semester.
• Evaluation of project stage-I and project stage-II shall consist of both CIE and
SEE in each semester.
• CIE shall be carried out for 40 marks both in stage-I and stage-II.
• CIE shall be done by a committee consisting of Head of the Department, project
supervisor and senior faculty member of the Department.
• CIE shall be done on the basis of two seminars conducted in each semester
as per the academic calendar and as per the evaluation format provided by the
DoA.
• SEE shall be carried out for 60 marks in both stage-I and stage-II.
• SEE in stage-I shall be conducted by a committee consisting of Head of the
Department, the project supervisor and one senior faculty of the programme.
• The student is deemed to have failed in Project Stage-I, if he
✓ does not submit a report, OR
✓ does not make a presentation of the same before the evaluation
committee as per schedule, OR
✓ secures less than 40% marks in the sum total of the CIE and SEE
taken together.
• A student who has failed may reappear once for the above evaluation, when it
is scheduled again; if he fails in such ‘one reappearance’ evaluation also, he
has to reappear for the same in the next subsequent semester, as and when it
is scheduled.
• Evaluation of Project Stage-II in VIII semester shall consist of both CIE
and SEE.
• CIE shall be carried out for 40 marks whereas SEE shall be carried out for 60
marks.
• CIE shall be done by an internal project committee consisting of Head of the
Department, project supervisor and senior faculty member of the Department.
• Out of the 40 marks, internal project committee shall evaluate the project
work for 20 marks and Project Supervisor shall evaluate for 20 marks.
• CIE shall be done on the basis of two seminars conducted in VII and VIII
semesters as per the academic calendar and as per the evaluation format
provided by the DoA.
• SEE in stage-II (project viva-voce) shall be conducted by a committee
consisting of an external examiner, Head of the Department, the project
supervisor and one senior faculty of the programme.
• The topics for Industry Oriented Mini Project/ Internship/SDC etc. and the main
Project shall be different from the topic already taken.
• The student is deemed to have failed in Project Stage-II, if he
✓ does not submit a report, OR
✓ does not make a presentation of the same before the External Examiner
as per schedule, OR
✓ secures less than 40% marks in the sum total of the CIE and SEE
taken together.
• A student who has failed, may reappear once for the above evaluation, when
26
it is scheduled again; if student fails in such ‘one reappearance’ evaluation also,
he has to reappear for the same in the next subsequent semester, as and when
it is scheduled.
16.10 MOOC:
• Meeting with the global requirements, to inculcate the habit of self-learning
and in compliance with the UGC guidelines, MOOC (Massive Open Online
Courses) have been introduced in these regulations.
• The proposed MOOCs would be additional choices in all the elective group
courses subjected to their offering in the department, availability in the MOOC
platform during the respective semesters as well as according to the guidelines
specified by the Academic Section for offering of such courses at that time.
• As per the guidelines issued by the Academic Section regarding equivalency
conditions of the MOOC, concerned departments shall declare the BoS
approved list of the courses that a student can pursue through MOOCs at the
beginning of the semester.
• Students interested in pursuing MOOCs shall register the course title at their
department office before the start of the semester against the courses that are
announced by the department.
• Course content for the selected MOOCs shall be drawn from the respective
MOOCs link or shall be supplied by the department.
• Course progress shall be monitored by the course coordinator designated by
the HoD.
• Assessment & evaluation of the courses shall be done by the respective
department designated MOOC Coordinator.
• Grade obtained through the evaluation of the selected course pursued through
MOOC shall be considered for the SGPA/CGPA calculation.
• Equivalent credits* shall be awarded upon successful completion of each MOOC
course.
• *Detailed guidelines regarding credit transfer of the courses pursued through
MOOC shall be issued time to time by the Academic Section.
16.11 Value Added Courses:
• The value-added courses / certificate courses offered through joint ventures
with various industries / organizations provide ample scope for the students as
well as faculty to keep pace with the latest technologies pertaining to their
chosen field of studies.
• A plenty of value-added programmes approved by the BoS shall be proposed
by the departments one week before the commencement of classes.
• The students are given the option to choose the course inclinations as per their
choice.
• Students interested in pursuing value added courses shall register for the
courses in the department office at the beginning of the semester against the
courses that are announced by the department.
• Course progress shall be monitored by the course coordinator designated by
the HoD.
• Result of value-added courses shall be declared with “Satisfactory” or “Not
Satisfactory” performance.
• Grade obtained through value added course shall not be considered for the
SGPA/CGPA calculation.
27
16.12 Mandatory Audit Courses:
• A student shall pursue the entire mandatory and audit courses as specified in
the course structure of the B.Tech. programme.
• These courses are among the compulsory courses and do not carry any
credits.
• Mandatory courses shall not carry any credits but, securing 40 marks out of
100, shall be necessary requirement for the student to qualify for the
award of Degree.
• Two sessional examinations shall be conducted in each semester as per the
academic calendar.
• Each sessional examination shall be evaluated for 50 marks.
• Question paper pattern for sessional examination (50 Marks) of Mandatory
Audit courses shall be as follows:
Q.1 10 M
UNIT-I
Q.2 10 M
Q.3 10 M
Sessional Examination
UNIT-II
– I (SE-I)
Q.4 10 M
UNIT-III Q.5 10 M
UNIT-III Q.1 10 M
Q.2 10 M
Sessional Examination
UNIT-IV
– II SE-II)
Q.3 10 M
Q.4 10 M
UNIT-V
Q.5 10 M
• Sum total of two sessional examinations shall be calculated and used as
the final sessional marks.
• Result of mandatory audit courses shall be declared with “Satisfactory” or
“Not Satisfactory” performance.
• No marks or letter grade shall be allotted.
• The students shall have four chances in total to clear a specific mandatory and
audit course.
28
16.13 Virtual Laboratories:
• The Virtual Laboratories are internet enabled experiments for remote operation
so as to enhance the curiosity and innovation of students and provide hands-
on sessions. The main aim of virtual labs is to enthuse the students about
performing ‘experiments’ and thereby getting them interested in their
respective disciplines in a meaningful way. It is expected that the competence
level of the engineering students shall enhance through the use of these labs.
• Advanced laboratories / experiments that are not existing in the Institute and
are required for supplementing the knowledge gained in specific course(s) may
be pursued by the students though the use of Virtual Labs.
• Departments offering B.Tech. programmes shall define the list of virtual
laboratories that a student can take up during the duration of course of study.
• The decision to pursue a virtual laboratory course by a student shall be optional
and also in addition to the mandatory requirement of pursuing practical courses
as specified in the course structure of the programme.
• The virtual laboratories / experiments that a student decides to pursue must
be communicated to the Academic Section through HoD.
17.0 RE-REGISTRATION OF COURSES:
• A student can re-register for courses in a semester, if
✓ Internal marks secured by student in continuous internal evaluation
for 40 marks (sum of average of two sessional examinations, average of
two class assessments and average of two experiential learning
assessments) are less than 35% and failed in those courses.
• Such a student may seek re-registration for all those courses registered in
that semester in which he has failed to score minimum 35% marks in CIE
(i.e., 14 marks out of 40 marks). Student has to re-appear for CIE and
SEE as and when offered.
• A student must re-register for such failed course(s) within four weeks of
commencement of the classwork in the next academic year.
• In the event of the student taking this chance, his CIE marks for 40
obtained in the previous attempt shall stand cancelled.
• Student has to obtain a fresh set of marks in CIE for 40 marks (sum of
average of two sessional examinations, average of two class
assessments and two experiential learning assessment) and SEE (60
marks). Head of the Department shall coordinate for the re-registration
activity.
18.0 CONDUCT OF SEMESTER END EXAMINATIONS AND
EVALUATION:
• Semester end examination (SEE) shall be conducted by the Controller of
Examinations (COE) by inviting Question Papers from the External Examiners.
• Question papers may be moderated for the coverage of syllabus, pattern of
questions by an examiner appointed by the CoE. The appointed examiner shall
prepare a detailed answer key and scheme of valuation and submit it to the
CoE.
• Laboratory SEE shall be conducted involving internal and external examiners
as defined in these regulations.
29
19.0 REVALUATION:
• Student can register for the revaluation by paying a prescribed fee.
• The Controller of Examinations (CoE) shall arrange for the revaluation and
declare the results.
• Revaluation shall not be permitted to the courses other than theory courses.
20.0 PERFORMANCE AND GRADING SYSTEM:
• Performances of students based on the percentage of marks obtained (CIE and
SEE, both taken together) in each of the courses (Theory / Practical / Industry-
Oriented Mini-Project / Internship / SDC and Project Stages) in the programme
are expressed in terms of Letter Grades based on an absolute grading
system. The 10-point grading system with letter grades and their grade points
are shown in the Table 7.
Table 7 Grade and Grade Points
% of Marks Obtained in a Letter Description of Grade Points
Course Grade Grade (GP)
>= 90.00 O Outstanding 10
>= 80.00 and < 90.00 A+ Excellent 9
>= 70.00 and < 80.00 A Very Good 8
>= 60.00 and < 70.00 B+ Good 7
>= 50.00 and < 60.00 B Average 6
>= 40.00 and < 50.00 C Pass 5
< 40.00 F Fail 0
Not Appeared in the Exam(s) Ab Absent 0
• A student who has obtained an ‘F’ grade in any course shall be deemed to have
‘failed’ and is required to reappear as a ‘supplementary student’ in the
semester end examination, as and when scheduled.
• In such cases, internal marks in those courses shall remain the same as those
obtained earlier.
• If a student has not appeared for an examination in any course, ‘Ab’ grade
shall be allocated in that course, and he is deemed to have ‘Failed’ and is
required to reappear as a ‘supplementary student’ in the semester end
examination, as and when offered next.
• In this case also, the internal marks in those courses shall remain the same as
those obtained earlier.
• A letter grade does not indicate any specific percentage of marks secured by
the student, but it indicates only the range of percentage of marks.
30
21.0 COMPUTATION OF SGPA AND CGPA:
➢ CALCULATION OF SEMESTER GRADE POINT AVERAGE (SGPA):
• The performance of each student at the end of each semester shall be indicated
in terms of SGPA. The SGPA shall be calculated as below:
Total earned weighted grade points in a semester
SGPA =
Total credits in a semester
∑P C ∗G
i=1 i i
SGPA=
∑P C
i=1 i
where C = Number of credits allotted to a particular course ‘i’
i
G = Grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to the
i
course ‘i’
i = 1,2,…..p represent the number of courses in a particular
semester
NOTE: SGPA is calculated and awarded to those students who pass all the
courses in a semester.
➢ CALCULATION OF CUMULATIVE GRADE POINT AVERAGE (CGPA):
The CGPA of a student for the entire programme shall be calculated as given
below:
• Assessment of the overall performance of a student shall be obtained by
calculating cumulative grade point average (CGPA), which is weighted average
of the grade points obtained in all courses during the course of study.
Total earned weighted grade points for the entire programme
CGPA=
Total credits for the entire programme
∑m C ∗G
j=1 j j
CGPA=
∑m C
j=1 j
where C = number of credits allotted to a particular course ‘j’
j
G = grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to that
j
course ‘j’
j = 1,2,….m represent the number of courses of the entire
programme.
• Grade lower than C in any course shall not be considered for CGPA calculation.
The CGPA shall be awarded only when the student acquires the required
number of credits prescribed for the programme.
31
➢ ILLUSTRATION OF COMPUTATION OF SGPA AND CGPA:
❖ Illustration of calculation of SGPA:
Grade
Course Course Letter Credit Point
Point
Name Credits (C) Grade (CP = C x GP)
(GP)
Course 1 3 A 8 3 x 8 = 24
Course 2 4 B+ 7 4 x 7 = 28
Course 3 3 B 6 3 x 6 = 18
Course 4 3 O 10 3 x 10 = 30
Course 5 3 C 5 3 x 5 = 15
Course 6 4 B 6 4 x 6 = 24
TOTAL TOTAL CREDIT
20 139
CREDITS POINTS
139
Thus, SGPA = = 6.95
20
❖ Illustration of calculation of CGPA upto II semester:
Course Letter Grade Credit Point
Course
Semester Credits Grade Point (CP = C x
Name
(C) Secured (GP) GP)
I Course 1 4 A 8 32
I Course 2 3 O 10 40
I Course 3 3 B 6 18
I Course 4 3 C 5 15
I Course 5 1 A+ 9 9
I Course 6 1 B+ 7 7
I Course 7 3 O 10 30
I Course 8 1 C 5 5
I Course 9 1 A 8 8
II Course 10 3 A 8 24
II Course 11 3 A+ 9 27
II Course 12 3 B 6 18
II Course 13 3 A 8 24
II Course 14 3 A+ 9 27
II Course 15 1 A 8 8
II Course 16 1 A 8 8
II Course 17 2 B 6 12
II Course 18 1 A+ 9 9
TOTAL CREDIT
TOTAL CREDITS 40 321
POINTS
321
Thus, CGPA = = 8.02
40
• The above illustrated process of calculation of CGPA shall be followed for each
subsequent semester until VIII semester i.e., (IV year II semester).
• The CGPA obtained at the end of VIII semester i.e., (IV year II semester) shall
be the final CGPA secured by the student for the entire B.Tech. programme.
32
22.0 DECLARATION OF RESULTS:
• Computation of SGPA and CGPA are done using the procedure mentioned in
20.0.
• For final percentage of marks equivalent to the computed final CGPA, the
following formula may be used.
% of Marks = (final CGPA – 0.5) x 10
23.0 PASSING STANDARDS:
• A student shall be declared successful or ‘passed’ in a semester, if he
secures a GP ≥ 5 (‘C’ grade or above) in every course in that semester
(i.e., when the student gets an SGPA  5.0 at the end of that particular
semester)
• A student shall be declared successful or ‘passed’ in the entire B.Tech.
programme, only when if he secures a CGPA  5.00 (‘C’ grade or above)
for the award of the degree as required.
• After the completion of each semester, a grade card or grade sheet shall be
issued to all the registered students of that semester.
23.1 Grade Card:
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) Course code, course title, no. of credits for each course offered in that
semester
b) Letter grade and grade point awarded in each course
c) Credits earned in each course
c) SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that
semester.
• There is NO exemption of credits in any case.
24.0 SCHEME FOR THE AWARD OF DEGREE:
24.1 Award of B.Tech. Degree:
• A student shall be declared qualified for the award of the B.Tech. degree in the
concerned branch of Engineering allotted at the time of admission, if he/she
fulfils the following academic rules:
✓ Pursued a programme of study for not less than four academic years
and not more than eight academic years from the date of
commencement of the first academic year.
✓ Registered for 160 credits and secured a minimum of 160 credits with
CGPA ≥ 5.0.
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for
the award of the degree within eight academic years from the first
academic year of their admission, shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech.
programme.
24.2 Awarding of Class based on CGPA:
• A student who qualifies for the award of the degree as listed in item 23.1 above
shall be placed in the following classes based on their CGPA at the end of the
B.Tech. degree programme.
33
Table 8 CGPA and Class
CGPA Class
>= 8.0* First Class with Distinction *
>= 7.0 and < 8.0 First Class
>= 6.0 and < 7.0 Second Class
>= 5.0 and < 6.0 Pass Class
* Conditions for First Class with Distinction:
• For a student to be awarded ‘ First Class with Distinction’, he
(i) Should have passed all the courses in ‘First Appearance’ within the
first 4 academic years (or 8 sequential semesters) from the date of
commencement of first year first semester.
(ii) Should not have been detained or prevented from writing the
semester end examinations in any semester due to shortage of
attendance or any other reason.
• A student not fulfilling any of the above conditions with final CGPA > 8
shall be placed in ‘First Class’.
• A student with final CGPA < 5.00 shall not be eligible for the award of the
B.Tech. degree.
• Students fulfilling the conditions for awarding First Class with Distinction
alone shall be eligible for award of ‘Gold Medal’.
24.3 Re-joining B.Tech. Degree after break:
• A student may be permitted to take one year break while pursuing four-year
B.Tech. regular degree programme i.e., either after completion of B.Tech.
IV semester (B.Tech. II year II semester) or B.Tech. VI semester
(B.Tech. III year II semester).
• Student has to seek approval from the JNT University well in advance
through the Institute Principal by submitting valid reasoning and
documentary evidence.
• Students permitted by the University to take one year break can then re-
enter the four-year B.Tech. regular degree programme in the next academic
year in the college and complete the remaining degree by fulfilling the
academic requirements within the stipulated duration i.e., double the
duration of the programme (within 8 years from the year of admission in first
year).
24.4 Award of Two-Year B.Tech. Diploma Certificate:
• A student willing to exit four-year B.Tech. regular degree program shall
be awarded two-year B.Tech. Diploma Certificate in the concerned branch
of engineering allotted at the time of admission, if he fulfills the following
conditions:
✓ submits a request for award of two-year B.Tech. Diploma certificate
✓ completes all the minimum academic requirements upto B.Tech. IV
semester (B.Tech. II year II semester) and
✓ earns all the 80 credits upto B.Tech. IV semester (B.Tech. II year II
semester) within 4 years from the date of admission in B.Tech. I
year.
• Student once opted and awarded two-year B.Tech. Diploma Certificate
34
shall be permitted to join the four-year B.Tech. degree programme
only in B.Tech. V semester (B.Tech. III year I semester) in the next academic
year along with the next batch students. However, if any student wishes to
continue the study after opting for exit, he/she should register for B.Tech. V
semester (B.Tech. III year I semester) courses well before the commencement
of classwork for that semester.
• Students who exit the four-year B.Tech. programme after II year of study and
wish to re-join the B.Tech. degree programme must surrender the two-year
B.Tech. (UG) Diploma Certificate awarded to him, subject to the eligibility for
completion of Course/Degree.
24.5 Award of B.Tech. Honors Degree:
• A student shall be awarded B.Tech. degree with Honors, if he secures
additional 20 credits (over and above 160 credits for the regular B.Tech.
degree) in III year and IV year only with atleast 7.5 CGPA for Honors and
acquiring 160 credits successfully with atleast 7.5 CGPA for regular
B.Tech. and passing all subjects in first attempt.
Ex: B.Tech. (Honors) - CSE
• Weekly instruction hours, internal & external evaluation and award of grades
are on par with regular 4 year B.Tech. Program.
• No transfer of credits from courses of Honors programme to regular
B.Tech. degree & vice versa.
• Eligibility Conditions:
• Students pursuing V semester (III year I semester) who have passed all
courses in first attempt in all the semesters with 7.5 or more CGPA till
the results announced.
• If more than 30% of the students in a branch fulfil the eligibility criteria (as
stated above), the number of eligible students shall be limited to 30% based
on the CGPA criteria till III semester (II year I semester).
• If a student fails in any registered course of either B.Tech. degree or Honors
degree in any semester of four years program, then the student shall not be
eligible for obtaining Honors degree and shall be eligible for only B.Tech.
degree.
• Prior approval of faculty mentor / advisor and Head of the Department for the
enrolment into Honors program, before commencement of V semester (III year
I semester) is mandatory.
• Courses opted must be from the prescribed list as given in the Honors course
structure and also not studied/registered in the regular B.Tech. degree.
• Student opting for Honors is not eligible to choose a Minor degree and
vice-versa.
• Additional 20 credits secured for the Honors shall not be considered for CGPA
calculation of B.Tech. degree.
24.6 Award of B.Tech. Minor Degree:
• A student shall be awarded B.Tech. Minor degree in a specified
programme if he secures additional 18 credits (over and above 160 credits
for the regular B.Tech. Degree) during III year and IV year only.
Ex: B.Tech. in Mechanical Engineering with Minor in Data Science
• If a student is unable to secure additional 18 credits in a specified duration
(twice the duration of the course), then the student shall not be awarded Minor
degree. However, if the student earns all the required 160 credits of B.Tech.,
35
then student shall be awarded only B.Tech. degree in the concerned branch.
• Weekly instruction hours, internal & external evaluation and award of grades
are on par with regular 4 year B.Tech. Program.
• No transfer of credits from courses of minor programme to regular
B.Tech. degree & vice versa.
• Student can choose only one minor programme along with his/her basic
engineering degree.
• Student opting for minor programme shall not be eligible to choose
honors degree and vice-versa.
• Eligibility conditions:
• Students shall not have active backlogs till III semester (II year I
semester) while entering into V semester (III year I semester).
• If more than 50% of the students in a branch fulfil the eligibility criteria (as
stated above), the number of eligible students shall be limited to 50% based
on the CGPA criteria.
• Prior approval of faculty mentor / advisor and Head of the Department for the
enrolment into minor programme before commencement of V semester (III
year I semester) is mandatory.
• Courses opted must be from the prescribed list as given in the minor degree
course structure and also not studied/registered in the regular B.Tech.
degree.
• All these 18 credits need to be completed in III year and IV year only.
• Detailed instructions shall be issued by the Academic Section before
commencement of V semester.
25.0 CREDIT TRANSFER:
• Credit transfer of a student from other Institution to VNRVJIET is permitted for
under-graduate programme as per the GOs from the Government of
Telangana.
❖ Credit transfer from another Institution to VNRVJIET:
• A student studying in another Institution can take transfer to VNRVJIET against
notification and orders issued by the Government of Telangana, under the
following conditions:
✓ When a student seeks transfer, equivalent credits shall be assigned to the
student based on the equivalent courses studied earlier by the student.
✓ The student, when transferred from other Institution, must follow the rules
and regulations of VNRVJIET.
✓ To graduate from VNRVJIET, a transferred student must study at least half
of the minimum duration prescribed for a programme at VNRVJIET.
❖ Credit transfer facility through MOOC:
• Detailed guidelines regarding credit transfer of the courses pursued through
MOOC (NPTEL-SWAYAM) shall be issued time to time by the Academic Section.
26.0 WITH-HOLDING OF RESULTS:
• If a student has not paid the pending fee dues to the institute due to any reason
whatsoever or if any case of indiscipline / malpractice is pending against him,
the results of such student shall be withheld and shall not be promoted to the
next semester as a punitive action.
36
• The issue of the award of the provisional certificate and the B.Tech. degree is
liable to be withheld in such cases.
27.0 DISCIPLINE:
• Every student is required to observe discipline and decorum both inside and
outside the institute and not to indulge in any activity which shall tend to bring
down the honor of the institute.
• If a student exhibits indiscipline during the academic activities or indulges in
malpractice in any of the theory / practical CIE or SEE, he shall be liable for
punitive action as prescribed by the Institute from time to time.
28.0 TRANSITORY REGULATIONS:
28.1 Students detained due to shortage of attendance:
• A student who has been detained in any semester of B.Tech. I year of
R18/R19/A19 academic regulations for want of attendance, shall be permitted
to rejoin the corresponding semester of R22 academic regulations. Such a
student is required to complete the B.Tech. regular degree programme within
the stipulated period of eight academic years from the date of first admission
in I year.
• A student who has been detained in any semester of B.Tech. II, III and IV
years of R15 academic regulations for want of attendance, shall be permitted
to rejoin the corresponding semester of R22 academic regulations. Such a
student is required to complete the B.Tech. regular degree programme within
the stipulated period of eight academic years from the date of first admission
in I year.
• R22 academic regulations shall be applicable to the student from the semester
of readmission onwards.
• He shall take up equivalent courses, as substitute courses in place of repeated
courses as decided by the Chairman of the BoS of the respective departments.
28.2 Students detained due to shortage of credits:
• A student of R15/R18/R19/A19 academic regulations who has been detained
due to shortage of credits, shall be promoted to the next semester of R22
academic regulations only after acquiring the required credits as per the
corresponding academic regulations of his first admission.
• He is required to complete the study of B.Tech. programme within the
stipulated period of eight academic years from the year of his first admission
in B.Tech. I year.
• R22 academic regulations shall be applicable to the student from the semester
of readmission onwards.
28.3 For readmitted students in R22 Academic Regulations:
• A student who has failed in any course(s) under any regulation has to pass
those course(s) in the same regulations.
• Minimum academic requirement of R22 academic regulation shall be applicable
to all the readmitted students.
• Credit structure as defined in the course structure of B.Tech. programmes
under R22 academic regulation shall be followed from the semester of
readmission.
• The maximum credits that a readmitted student acquires for the award
37
of degree, shall be the sum of the total number of credits secured in all
the regulations of his study including R22 regulations. There is NO
EXEMPTION OF CREDITS in any case.
• If a student readmitted to R22 academic regulations, has any course with 80%
of syllabus common with his previous regulations, then that particular course
in R22 academic regulations shall be substituted by another course as
suggested by the Board of Studies (BoS) of the concerned department.
• If a student readmitted to R22 academic regulations, has not studied any
courses/topics in his/her earlier regulations of study which is prerequisite for
further courses in R22 academic regulations, the department HoD concerned
shall conduct remedial classes to cover those courses/topics for the benefit of
the students.
28.4 Student Transfer:
• There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission process.
• Students seeking transfer to VNRVJIET from other colleges have to pass the
failed courses which are equivalent to the courses of VNRVJIET and also pass
courses of VNRVJIET which the students have not studied at the earlier college.
• Further, if some of the courses which the student has passed at the earlier
college and are repeated in subsequent semesters of VNRVJIET curriculum,
then the students have to study those courses again in VNRVJIET in spite of
the fact that those courses are repeated.
• Student transferred from other college who are on rolls, shall be provided one
chance to write the internal examinations in the equivalent course(s), as per
the clearance (equivalence) letter issued by the University.
• The decision of the Institute Academic Committee shall be final in
respect of equivalent courses suggested by the Board of Studies for
those students who are transferred from other colleges.
• The transfer of students from other college to VNRVJIET is to be
approved by the Academic Council and Governing Council of the
Institute.
29.0 MINIMUM INSTRUCTION PERIOD:
• The minimum instruction period for each semester shall be 16 weeks
(excluding examinations).
30.0 GENERAL:
• The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
• In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arising in the above rules and
regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
• The Chairman, Academic Council may change or amend any or all of the
academic regulations or syllabi at any time and the changes or amendments
made shall be applicable to all the students concerned with effect from the
dates as notified by the Institute.
• Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include “she”,
“her”, “hers”.
38
VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
(An Autonomous Institute)
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS FOR
B.TECH. - LATERAL ENTRY SCHEME (LES)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2023-2024)
31.0 MINIMUM ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS:
• Attendance requirements and detention policy of four-year B.Tech. regular
degree programmes as specified in 13.0 of these regulations is adopted for
students admitted to B.Tech. degree programme under lateral entry scheme
(LES).
• Academic performance requirements as specified in 14.0 of these regulations
are adopted for students admitted to B.Tech. degree programme under lateral
entry scheme (LES).
• Student who fails to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award
of the degree within six academic years from the year of his/her admission
in B.Tech. II year, shall forfeit his/her seat in B.Tech. programme and
his/her admission stands cancelled.
32.0 PROMOTION POLICY:
Apart from the minimum required attendance conditions as specified in
13.0 of these regulations, the credit conditions to be fulfilled by a Lateral
Entry student for getting promoted from the current semester to the next
semester are given below:
Table 9 Promotion Rules for B.Tech. LES
S.
Promotion Conditions to be fulfilled
No.
1 III semester (II year I i. Regular course of study of III
semester) to IV semester (II semester (II year I semester).
year I semester)
2 IV semester (II year II i. Regular course of study of IV
semester) to V semester s e m e s ter (II year II semester).
(III year I semester) ii. Must have secured atleast 60%
of the total credits upto IV
semester (II year II
semester) i.e., 24 credits out
of 40 credits of the respective
programme from all the relevant
regular and supplementary
examinations, whether the student
takes those examinations or not.
39
3 V semester (III year I i. Regular course of study of V
semester) to VI semester (III semester (III year I semester).
year II semester)
4 VI semester (III year i . R e g u l a r c ourse of study of VI
II semester) to VII semester semester (III year II semester).
(IV year I semester) ii. Must have secured atleast 60% of
the total credits upto VI
semester (III year II
semester) i.e., 48 credits out
of 80 credits of the respective
programme from all the relevant
regular and supplementary
examinations, whether the student
takes those examinations or not.
5 VII semester (IV year i . R e g u l a r course of study of VII
I semester) to VIII semester semester (IV year I semester)
(IV year II semester)
33.0 SCHEME FOR THE AWARD OF DEGREE:
33.1 Award of B.Tech. Degree:
• A lateral entry student shall be declared qualified for the award of the B.Tech.
degree in the branch of Engineering allotted at the time of admission if he/she
fulfils the following academic regulations:
✓ Pursued a programme of study for not less than three academic
years and not more than six academic years from the year of admission
in B.Tech. II year.
✓ Registered for 120 credits and secured a minimum of 120 credits with
CGPA ≥ 5.0 from II year to IV year.
• Lateral Entry Scheme students are not eligible for two year B.Tech.
Diploma Certificate.
40
MALPRACTICE RULES
DISCIPLINARY ACTION FOR IMPROPER CONDUCT IN
EXAMINATIONS
Nature of Malpractices / Punishment
S.No. Improper conduct
If a student:
1. (a) Possesses or keeps accessible in Expulsion from the examination hall
examination hall, any paper, note and cancellation of the performance
book, programmable calculators, in that course only.
cell phones, pager, palm
computers or any other form of
material concerned with or related
to the course of the examination
(theory or practical) in which he is
appearing but has not made use
of (material shall include any
marks on the body of the student
which can be used as an aid in the
course of the examination)
(b) Gives assistance or guidance or Expulsion from the examination hall
receives it from any other student and cancellation of the performance
orally or by any other body in that course only of all the
language methods or students involved. In case of an
communicates through cell outsider, he shall be handed over to
phones with any student or the police and a case is registered
persons in or outside the exam against him.
hall in respect of any matter.
2. Has copied in the examination hall Expulsion from the examination hall
from any paper, book, and cancellation of the performance
programmable calculators, palm in that course and all other courses
computers or any other form of the student has already appeared
material relevant to the course of including practical examinations
the examination (theory or and project work and shall not be
practical) in which the student is permitted to appear for the
appearing. remaining examinations of the
courses of that Semester/year.
The Hall Ticket of the student is to
be cancelled and sent to the
Controller of Examinations.
3. Impersonates any other student The student who has impersonated
in connection with the shall be expelled from examination
examination. hall. The student is also debarred
and forfeits the seat. The
performance of the original student,
who has been impersonated, shall
be cancelled in all the courses of the
examination (including practicals
and project work) already appeared
and shall not be allowed to appear
41
for examinations of the remaining
courses of that semester/year. The
student is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class
work and all semester end
examinations. The continuation of
the course by the student is course
to the academic regulations in
connection with forfeiture of seat. If
the imposter is an outsider, he shall
be handed over to the police and a
case is registered against him.
4. Smuggles in the Answer book or Expulsion from the examination hall
additional sheet or takes out or and cancellation of performance in
arranges to send out the question that course and all the other
paper during the examination or courses the student has already
answer book or additional sheet, appeared including practical
during or after the examination. examinations and project work and
shall not be permitted for the
remaining examinations of the
courses of that semester/year. The
student is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class
work and all semester end
examinations. The continuation of
the course by the student is course
to the academic regulations in
connection with forfeiture of seat.
5. Uses objectionable, abusive or Cancellation of the performance in
offensive language in the answer that course.
paper or in letters to the
examiners or writes to the
examiner requesting him to award
pass marks.
6. Refuses to obey the orders of the In case of students of the college,
Controller of Examinations they shall be expelled from
/Additional Controller of examination halls and cancellation
Examinations/any officer on duty of their performance in that course
or misbehaves or creates and all other courses the student(s)
disturbance of any kind in and has (have) already appeared and
around the examination hall or shall not be permitted to appear for
organizes a walk out or instigates the remaining examinations of the
others to walk out, or threatens courses of that semester/year. The
the COE or any person on duty in students also are debarred and
or outside the examination hall of forfeit their seats. In case of
any injury to his person or to any outsiders, they shall be handed over
of his relations whether by words, to the police and a police case is
either spoken or written or by registered against them.
signs or by visible representation,
assaults the COE or any person on
duty in or outside the examination
hall or any of his relations, or
42
indulges in any other act of
misconduct or mischief which
result in damage to or destruction
of property in the examination hall
or any part of the Institute
premises or engages in any other
act which in the opinion of the
officer on duty amounts to use of
unfair means or misconduct or
has the tendency to disrupt the
orderly conduct of the
examination.
7. Leaves the exam hall taking away Expulsion from the examination hall
answer script or intentionally and cancellation of performance in
tears of the script or any part that course and all the other
thereof inside or outside the courses the student has already
examination hall. appeared including practical
examinations and project work and
shall not be permitted for the
remaining examinations of the
courses of that semester/year. The
student is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class
work and all semester end
examinations. The continuation of
the course by the student is course
to the academic regulations in
connection with forfeiture of seat.
8. Possess any lethal weapon or Expulsion from the examination hall
firearm in the examination hall. and cancellation of the performance
in that course and all other courses
the student has already appeared
including practical examinations
and project work and shall not be
permitted for the remaining
examinations of the courses of that
semester/year. The student is also
debarred and forfeits the seat.
9. If student of the college, who is Expulsion from the examination hall
not a candidate for the particular and cancellation of the performance
examination, or any person not in that course and all other courses
connected with the college the student has already appeared
indulges in any malpractice or including practical examinations
improper conduct mentioned in and project work and shall not be
clause 6 to 8. permitted for the remaining
examinations of the courses of that
semester/year. The student is also
debarred and forfeits the seat.
Person(s) who do not belong to the
College shall be handed over to
police and, a police case shall be
registered against them.
43
10. Comes in a drunken condition to Expulsion from the examination hall
the examination hall. and cancellation of the performance
in that course and all other courses
the student has already appeared
including practical examinations
and project work and shall not be
permitted for the remaining
examinations of the courses of that
semester/year.
11. Copying detected on the basis of Cancellation of the performance in
internal evidence, such as, during that course and all other courses
valuation or during special the student has appeared including
scrutiny. practical examinations and project
work of that semester/year
examinations.
12. If any malpractice is detected
which is not covered in the above
clauses 1 to 11 shall be reported
to the Principal for further action
to award suitable punishment.
Malpractices identified by squad or special invigilators:
Punishments shall be given to the students as per the above guidelines.
Malpractice identified at Spot center during valuation:
The following procedure shall be followed in the case of malpractice cases detected
during valuation, scrutiny etc. at spot center:
1) Malpractice is detected at the spot valuation.
The case is to be referred to the malpractice committee. Malpractice committee
shall meet and discuss/question the student and based on the evidence, the
committee shall recommend suitable action on the student.
2) A notice is to be served to the student(s) involved, through the Principal, to his
address and to the student(s) permanent address regarding the malpractice and
seek explanations.
3) The involvement of staff who are in-charge of conducting examinations,
invigilators, examiners valuing examination papers and preparing / keeping
records of documents related to the examinations in such acts (inclusive of
providing incorrect or misleading information) that infringe upon the course of
natural justice to one and all concerned at the examinations shall be viewed
seriously and recommend for award of appropriate punishment after thorough
enquiry.
4) Based on the explanation by the party involved and recommendations of the
committee action may be initiated.
Malpractice Prevention Committee:
i. Dean, Examinations Chairman
ii. Dean, Academics Member
iii. Controller of Examinations Member
iv. Exam Hall Invigilator Member
v. Chief Examiner of the course/course expert Member
vi. Concerned Head of the Department Member
44
