SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/VNRMT18.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY HYDERABAD
(An Autonomous Institute)
ACADEMIC RULES AND REGULATIONS OF TWO YEAR M.TECH. REGULAR
DEGREE PROGRAMME APPLICABLE FOR THE STUDENT BATCHES
ADMITTED FROM THE ACADEMIC YEAR 2018 – 2019 ONWARDS
1.0 PREAMBLE:
Vallurupalli Nageswara Rao Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering & Technology (VNRVJIET)
aims at achieving academic excellence by implementing new initiatives in teaching-learning and
evaluation processes. Based on the directions of the University Grants Commission (UGC), New
Delhi, All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), New Delhi and Jawaharlal Nehru
Technological University (JNTU) Hyderabad, VNRVJIET introduced the Choice Based Credit
System (CBCS) in both the under-graduate and post-graduate programmes offered from the
academic year 2015 – 2016. Keeping in view of the standardization of the higher education
system in India, VNRVJIET is continuing the implementation of CBCS ahead.
2.0 SHORT TITLE, APPLICATION AND COMMENCEMENT:
• These regulations shall be called as the “VNRVJIET Choice Based Credit System (CBCS)
M.Tech. Academic Regulations, 2018”. In short, it shall be referred as ‘VNRVJIET M.Tech.
R18 CBCS Regulations’.
• The regulations are quite comprehensive and include definitions of key terms, semester
system, credit system, grading system and other relevant details.
• The regulations detailed herein shall apply to all the regular and professional M.Tech.
graduate programmes offered by the Institute.
• These regulations shall be applicable and come into force to the student batches admitted
from the academic year 2018-2019 onwards.
• The Institute may revise, amend or change the regulations, scheme of examinations and
syllabi, from time to time, if found necessary and on approval by the Academic Council of the
Institute, keeping the recommendations of the BoS in view.
• Any or all such amendments, shall be effective from such date and to such batches of
students including those already undergoing the programme, as may be approved through
Academic Council.
3.0 CHOICE BASED CREDIT SYSTEM:
• The Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) enables a student to obtain a degree by
accumulating the required number of credits prescribed for that degree. Under the CBCS,
the requirement for awarding a degree is prescribed in terms of number of credits to be
completed by the students. The number of credits earned by the student reflects the
knowledge or skill acquired by him / her. Each course is assigned with a fixed number of
credits based on the contents to be learned. The student also has choice in selecting courses
out of those offered by the various departments. The grade points earned for each course
Page | 1
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
reflects the student’s proficiency in that course.
• The CBCS provides the student flexibility in duration to complete a programme of study. The
CBCS facilitates transfer of credits earned in different Departments or institutions of higher
education in India.
• The CBCS permits students to:
1. Choose electives from a wide range of elective courses offered by the departments.
2. Undergo additional courses of interest.
3. Adopt an interdisciplinary approach in learning.
4. Make the best use of expertise of the available faculty.
4.0 ABBREVIATIONS:
Abbreviation Full Form
AAT Alternative Assessment Tool
AC Academic Council
AICTE All India Council for Technical Education
B.Tech. Bachelor of Technology
BIE Board of Intermediate Education
BoS Board of Studies
C Credit
CA Class Assessment
CBCS Choice Based Credit System
CGPA Cumulative Grade Point Average
CIE Continuous Internal Evaluation
CO Course Outcomes
CoE Controller of Examinations
CP Credit Point
D Drawing
DoA Dean of Academics
GO Government Order
GP Grade Point
IAC Institute Academic Committee
JNTUH Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad
L Lecture
M.Tech. Master of Technology
MOOC Massive Open Online Course
NBA National Board of Accreditation
NPTEL National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning
OBE Outcome Based Education
P Practical
PG Post-Graduate
Ph.D. Doctor of Philosophy
PRC Project Review Committee
PO Programme Outcomes
PSO Programme Specific Outcomes
Page | 2
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
SEE Semester End Examination
SGPA Semester Grade Point System
SRC Seminar Review Committee
SWAYAM Study Webs of Active Learning for Young and Aspiring Minds
T Tutorial
UG Under-Graduate
UGC University Grants Commission
Vallurupalli Nageswara Rao Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering &
VNRVJIET
Technology
5.0 NOMENCLATURE:
S. No. Keywords Definition
1. Academic Council: Highest academic body of the Institute and is
responsible for the maintenance of standards of
instruction, education and examination within the
Institute. Academic Council is an authority as per the
AICTE / UGC regulations and it has the right to take
decisions on all academic matters including
academic research
2. Academic Plan: A document defining the course contents and
complete details of plan of delivery of the course viz.
Course title, Course code, Pre-requisite, Credit
structure, team of instructors, Course objectives,
Course rationale, Course Outcomes and the relevant
syllabus, textbook(s) and reference books, Course
delivery plan and session plan, evaluation method,
chamber consultation hour, course notices and
other course related aspects
3. Academic Year: A period that is necessary to complete courses of
study. It consists of two consecutive (one odd + one
even) semesters
4. Admission Procedure: As prescribed by the Government of Telangana
5. Audit Course: A course of study which has neither grade nor
credits
6. Autonomous Institute: An Institute designated as 'Autonomous' by the
University Grants Commission (UGC), New Delhi in
concurrence with the affiliating University i.e.,
Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University,
Hyderabad and Telangana State Government
7. Backlog Course: A course is considered to be a backlog course if the
student has obtained a Fail (F) grade
8. Basic Science Courses: Courses of foundational nature in the areas of
Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Biology etc.
9. Board of Studies: An authority as defined in the UGC regulations, and
constituted by the Principal for each of the
department separately. The board is responsible for
curriculum design and update in respect of all the
programs offered by a department
Page | 3
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
10. Branch: A discipline or specialization of a degree programme
like Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering etc.
11. Certificate Course: A non-credit course that makes a student gain
hands-on expertise and skills required for holistic
development
12. Choice Based Credit System A system which provides choice for students to
(CBCS): select from the prescribed courses
13. Compulsory Course: Course required to be undertaken for the award of
the degree as per the program
14. Continuous Internal Summative assessments used to evaluate student
Evaluation (CIE): learning, acquired skills, and academic attainment
during a course
15. Course: A course offered for learning in a particular
semester by the Institute. These could be theory /
laboratory / project work / mini-project / internship
etc. and may comprise of lectures / tutorials /
practicals / assignments / examination / viva-voce
etc. All the courses need not carry the same
weightage. A course is defined through course
objectives and course outcomes
16. Course Outcomes (CO): Statements describing essential skills that each and
every student need to acquire at the end of a
course. They can be from 3 to 5 for all the courses
17. Course Registration: Process of enrolling into a set of courses in a
semester of the program
18. Credit: A unit by which the course work is measured. It
determines the number of hours of instructions
required per week. One credit is equivalent to one
lecture hour of teaching (lecture or tutorial) or two
hours of practical / field -work per week
19. Credit Based Semester A system which prescribes the number of credits to
System (CBSS): be secured by the student for the requirement of
award of degree
20. Credit Point: A product of grade point and number of credits for a
course
21. Credit Transfer: The procedure of granting credit(s) to a student for
course(s) undertaken at another institution
22. Cumulative Grade Point A measure of overall cumulative performance of a
Average (CGPA): student over all semesters. It is the ratio of total
credit points secured by a student in various courses
in all semesters and the sum of the total credits of all
courses in all the semesters. It is expressed up to
two decimal places
23. Curriculum: Curriculum incorporates all the courses that are
offered in a specific discipline. It also indicates the
planned interaction of students with instructional
content, materials and resources
24. Degree: A student who fulfills all the programme
requirements is eligible to receive a degree
25. Department: An academic entity that conducts relevant curricular
and co-curricular activities, involving both teaching
Page | 4
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
and non-teaching staff and other resources
26. Detention in a Course: Student who does not secure minimum required
attendance in a course shall be detained in that
course
27. Dropping of Courses: A student who doesn’t want to register certain
courses should do so in writing in a prescribed
format before the commencement of semester
28. Engineering Science Courses: Courses belonging to basic evolutionary aspects of
engineering from Mechanical Engineering, Electrical
Engineering etc. like Workshop Practice, Engineering
Graphics, Programming through C, Basic Electrical
Engineering, Engineering Mechanics, etc.
29. Evaluation: Evaluation is the process of judging the academic
work done by the student in his / her courses. It is
done through a combination of continuous in-
semester assessment and semester end
examinations
30. Grade Point: A numerical weight allotted to each letter grade on
a 10-point scale
31. Grade Sheet: Based on the grades earned, a grade sheet shall be
issued to all the registered students after every
semester. The grade sheet shall display the course
details (Course title, number of credits, grade
secured) along with SGPA of that semester and
CGPA earned till that semester
32. Humanities & Social Courses offered in the area of humanities and liberal
Sciences: arts
33. Industrial Visit: Visit to a company / firm as per the academic
requirement
34. Institute: VNRVJIET
35. Course Projects: A student-centric learning methodology wherein
students work as individuals or in teams in a
laboratory for design, problem-solving, decision
making, and investigative activities
36. Letter Grade: An index of the performance of students in a said
course. Grades are denoted by letters like O, A+, A,
B+, B, C, F, Ab etc.
37. Mandatory Courses: Compulsory non-credit courses that a student need
to study as prescribed in the programme
38. Massive Open Online Open access online courses aimed at providing ways
Courses (MOOC): to learn new skills
39. Open Elective Courses: Courses of interdisciplinary nature offered to all the
students of various programs across the Institute
40. Outcome Based Education: An educational theory that bases each part of an
educational system around goals (outcomes). Each
student should have achieved the goal by the end of
the educational experience
41. Overloading: Registering for more number of credits than
normally prescribed by the programme in a
semester
42. Pre-requisite: A course whose knowledge is required for
Page | 5
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
registration into higher level course
43. Professional Core Courses: Courses that are fundamental constituents of the
respective engineering discipline
44. Professional Elective Courses that are discipline-specific
Courses:
45. Programme: A set of courses offered by the Department leading
to the award of degree in that program
46. Programme Outcomes (PO): Statements describing the essential skill sets that
each and every student need to possess at the time
of graduation. These skill sets are in the areas of
employability, entrepreneurial, social and behavioral
47. Programme Specific Statements that describe what the graduates of a
Outcomes (PSO): specific programme should be able to do
48. Project: A credit-based course that a student has to undergo,
as prescribed in the programme, which involves the
student to undertake a research or design that is
carefully planned to achieve a particular aim
49. Re-appearing: A student can reappear only in the semester end
examination for the theory component (SEE) of a
course, subject to the regulations contained herein.
50. Regulations: The rules and regulations contained herein that are
common to all the M.Tech. programs offered by the
Institute and designated as “VNRVJIET R18
Regulations”
51. Re-registering: A student desiring to repeat a course is permitted to
do so, subject to the regulations contained herein
52. Semester: Each semester shall consist of 16 weeks of academic
work excluding examination and evaluation
53. Semester End Examination: An examination conducted at the end of a course of
study
54. Semester Grade Point A measure of performance of work done in a
Average: semester. It is ratio of total credit points secured by
a student in various courses registered in a semester
and the total course credits taken during that
semester. It shall be expressed up to two decimal
places
55. Substitute Courses: A course that is offered in place of another course
that is already studied by the student and is
repeated in the semester of study.
56. Underloading: Registering for lesser number of credits than
normally prescribed by the programme in a
semester.
57. University: Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University
Hyderabad
58. Virtual Laboratories: Web enabled experiments for remote operation so
as to increase the curiosity and innovation of
students and provide hands-on sessions.
6.0 POST-GRADUATE DEGREE PROGRAMMES ON OFFER:
VNR VJIET offers 2-year (4 semesters) Master of Technology (M. Tech.) degree programme,
under Choice Based Credit System (CBCS), with effect from the academic year 2018 - 19, in the
Page | 6
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
branches as shown in the Table 1.
Table 1 M.Tech. programmes of study on offer
Department Offering the Programme Branch / Specialization
Structural Engineering
CE Geotechnical Engineering
Highway Engineering
Power Electronics
EEE
Power Systems
Advanced Manufacturing Systems
ME
CAD/CAM
VLSI System Design
ECE
Embedded Systems
Software Engineering
CSE
Computer Science and Engineering
EIE Electronics and Instrumentation
IT Computer Networks and Information Security
7.0 ELIGIBILITY FOR ADMISSION:
• Admission to the above programmes shall be made subject to the eligibility and qualifications
as prescribed from time to time.
• Admissions shall be made on the basis of Rank / Percentile earned by the candidate in the
relevant GATE examination / merit rank obtained by the qualifying candidate in the entrance
test - PGECET conducted by the Government of Telangana for M.Tech. programmes or as
decided by TSCHE subject to the reservations as prescribed by the University / State
Government / on the basis of any other order of merit as decided by TSCHE from time to time.
8.0 MEDIUM OF INSTRUCTION:
The medium of instruction shall be English for all the courses including their content delivery and
examinations, seminars, presentations and project evaluation as prescribed in the programme
curriculum.
9.0 M.TECH. PROGRAMME STRUCTURE:
The structure of the M.Tech. programmes on offer at VNRVJIET are based on the Choice Based
Credit System (CBCS) and Credit Based Semester System (CBSS) as defined by the UGC and the
curriculum / course structure as suggested by the AICTE in its Model Curriculum.
Semester Scheme:
• The M.Tech. programmes offered at VNRVJIET follow semester scheme pattern.
• The duration of a M.Tech. programme shall be of 2 academic years.
• Each academic year shall have 2 semesters i.e., Odd and Even semesters and shall be counted
as first semester, second semester, third semester and fourth semester.
• Each semester shall consist of 16 weeks of academic work excluding examination and
evaluation.
• Each semester is structured to provide a total of 68 credits for the entire M.Tech.
programme.
• Each semester shall have ‘Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE)’ and ‘Semester End
Examination (SEE)’.
Page | 7
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
• Each student shall secure a total of 68 credits with a CGPA ≥ 6.0 required for the completion
of the PG programme and the award of the M.Tech. degree.
• A student after securing admission into a M.Tech. programme at VNRVJIET shall pursue and
acquire the M.Tech. degree in a minimum period of two academic years i.e., 4 semesters and
a maximum period of four academic years i.e., 8 semesters starting from the date of
commencement of I year I semester, failing which the student shall forfeit the seat in M.Tech.
programme.
10.0 DURATION OF THE ACADEMIC PROGRAMMES:
• Under CBCS, programme duration shall be defined by the period in which a student earns the
prescribed credits for the award of M.Tech. degree.
• Hence, it is possible for an outstanding student to qualify for the award of degree in a shorter
time than that of the duration specified for the concerned programme. However the M.Tech.
degree shall be issued at the end of normal duration of the programme i.e., two years.
❖ Normal Duration:
• The duration of the M.Tech. degree programme shall be two years.
❖ Maximum Duration:
• The maximum period in which a student can complete a full time M.Tech. degree programme
shall be twice the normal duration of the programme, i.e., four years (8 semesters) for
M.Tech. degree.
• The maximum period for a programme shall also be dictated by the fact that a student has to
demonstrate the prescribed minimum academic performance by registering for the
prescribed minimum number of credits in every semester, for continuing in the programme.
This period can be equal to or lesser than the maximum period indicated as indicated above.
11.0 COURSES AND CREDIT STRUCTURE:
• Every course in the M.Tech. programme of study has a Lecture-Tutorial-Practical (L-T-P)
component attached to it. Based upon the L-T-P structure, the credits are allotted to a course
using the criteria as shown in the Table 2.
Table 2 Contact hour and credit structure
Type of Course Contact Hours / Week Credits (C)
Lecture (L) 1 1
Theory
Tutorial (T) 1 1
Laboratory Practical (P) 2 1
Drawing Drawing (D) 2 1
• Every course of the M.Tech. programme shall be offered by a specific section/ branch /
department. The department / section unique codes are given in the Table 3.
Table 3 Course offering section / branch / department
Course Offering Section / Branch / Department Code
English EN
Mathematics MT
Management MG
Humanities & Social Sciences HS
Structural Engineering ST
Page | 8
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
Geotechnical Engineering GT
Highway Engineering HW
Power Electronics PL
Power Systems PS
Advanced Manufacturing Systems AM
CAD/CAM CD
VLSI System Design VS
Embedded Systems ES
Software Engineering SW
Computer Science and Engineering CP
Electronics and Instrumentation LI
Computer Networks and Information Security CN
❖ Structure:
• Every M.Tech. programme of study shall be designed to have theory and laboratory courses.
In addition, a student shall carry out research methodology & IPR, mini project, technical
seminar, project/dissertation and audit courses as prescribed in the curriculum of the
programmes.
• Every course offered under a M.Tech. programme shall be placed in one of the course
categories with minimum credits as listed in the Table 4.
Table 4 Category of Courses, their Codes and Distribution of Credits
Range of Credit
Type of Courses Course Category Code
Credits Composition (%)
Professional Core PC 24 35.30
Project PW 22
Compulsory Courses
Technical Seminar PW 02 38.23
Mini-project PW 02
Professional Elective PE 15 22.06
Elective Courses
Open Elective OE 03 4.41
Audit AU --
Non-
Mandatory Courses
Mandatory MN Credit --
Total 68 100
MOOC Online OL -- --
--
Virtual Laboratories Online VL --
Page | 9
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
Table 5 Description of Courses
Broad Course Course Group/
Description of Courses
Classification Category
Professional Includes core courses related to the parent discipline
Core / department / branch of Engineering
Project Work M.Tech. Project / Dissertation Part-I and Part-II
Core
Mini-project M.Tech. Mini-project
Technical
Seminar on a technical topic
Seminar
Professional Includes elective courses related to the parent
Electives discipline / department / branch of Engineering
Elective Elective courses which include inter - disciplinary
Open Electives courses or courses in an area outside the parent
discipline / department / branch of Engineering
Mandatory -
Mandatory non-credit courses
Audit -
12.0 REGISTRATION / DROPPING / OFFERING OF COURSE(S):
❖ Course Registration:
• All the students must compulsorily register for course work at the beginning of each
semester as per the schedule mentioned in the Academic Calendar.
• It is essential for the student to register for all the prescribed courses in time.
• The registration shall be organized by the department under the supervision of the Head of
the Department.
• A ‘faculty advisor or coordinator’ shall be assigned to each specialization, who shall advise
the students about the post graduate programme, its course structure and curriculum, choice
/ option for course / courses, based on their competence, progress, pre-requisites if any and
interest.
• The academic section of the college invites ‘registration form’ from students before
beginning of the semester through ‘online registration’, ensuring ‘date and time stamping’.
• The online registration requests for any ‘current semester’ shall be completed before the
commencement of SEEs (Semester End Examinations) of the ‘preceding semester’.
• A student shall register courses online with the approval of faculty mentor. A copy of it shall
be retained by the student and other copies be submitted online to the concerned HoD,
faculty mentor and Dean of Academics.
• A student may be permitted to register for the courses of his / her choice in a semester with
credits as prescribed in the course structure of the concerned M.Tech. programme with a
deviation of ± 15 % credits in I & II semester and ± 22 % credits (rounded off to lower digit) in
III & IV semester respectively for defining minimum and maximum credits, based on progress
and SGPA / CGPA, and completion of the ‘pre-requisites’ as indicated for various courses, in
the course structure of the programmes and syllabus contents.
• Choice for ‘additional courses’ to reach the maximum permissible limit of + 15 % credits in I &
II semester and + 22 % credits in III & IV semester respectively as specified in the course
Page | 10
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
structure of the concerned programme, must be clearly indicated, which needs the specific
approval and signature of the faculty advisor / coordinator.
• Additional courses shall be offered only upon meeting the prerequisites, if any, as mentioned
in the programme curriculum.
• Course options exercised through online registration shall be FINAL and cannot be changed
or inter-changed; further, alternate choices also shall not be considered.
• However, if the course that has already been listed for registration by the Head of the
Department in a semester could not be offered due to any unforeseen or unexpected
reasons, then the student shall be allowed to have an alternate choice either for a new
course (subject to offering of such a course), or for another existing course (subject to
availability of seats). Such alternate arrangements shall be made by the Head of the
Department, with due notification and time-framed schedule, within the first week after the
commencement of class-work for that semester.
• IN ABSENTIA registration shall not be permitted under any circumstance.
• At the time of registration, students should have cleared all the dues of Institute and Hostel
in the previous semesters, paid the prescribed fees for the current semester and not been
debarred from institute for a specified period on disciplinary or any other ground.
❖ Open Elective Courses:
• The students have to choose one open elective course in third semester (II year I semester)
from the list of open electives as prescribed in the course structure of the programme.
❖ Professional Elective Courses:
• Students have to register for a total of 05 professional elective courses (PE-I to PE-V) from
the list of professional elective courses as prescribed in the programme course structure.
• However, the students of a particular discipline can register for discipline / interdisciplinary
courses of other disciplines provided they have met the pre-requisite or when pre-requisite is
waived by Dean of Academics.
❖ Dropping of Courses:
• Dropping of one or more courses may be permitted, only after obtaining prior approval from
the faculty advisor / coordinator (subject to retaining of minimum credits as prescribed in
these regulations), ‘within a period of 15 days’ from the beginning of the current semester
for maintaining studentship.
• The dropped courses are not recorded in the Grade Card.
• Student must complete the dropped course by registering it as and when offered in order to
earn the required credits. This is in addition to the minimum number of credits that are
required to continue studentship in a semester. However, the total credits registered in a
semester should not exceed the maximum number of credits permitted to register in that
semester.
13.0 ATTENDANCE REQUIREMENTS AND DETENTION POLICY:
• A student shall maintain a minimum required attendance of 75 % in all the courses.
• Shortage of attendance up to 10 % i.e., attendance between 65 % to 75 % in each course of a
semester, may be condoned by the Institute Academic Committee based on the rules
prescribed by the Academic Council of the Institute from time to time.
• Shortage of attendance below 65 % in any course shall in NO CASE BE CONDONED.
• However, a student shall secure minimum required attendance of 75 % in atleast three (03)
theory courses in I year I semester to get promoted to I year II semester and in I year II
semester to get promoted to II year I semester respectively.
Page | 11
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
• A stipulated fee per course shall be payable towards condonation of shortage of attendance.
• Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned in a course (s) OR who have not
paid the stipulated fee OR who have not cleared any other due to the Institute in any
semester are not eligible to write the semester end examination (SEE).
• Students who do not meet the minimum required attendance in atleast 03 theory courses,
shall be detained in the semester and their registration for that semester shall stand
cancelled. They shall not be promoted to the next semester.
• Students detained in a course(s) shall seek re-admission for all such courses as and when
offered.
• Students detained in a semester shall seek re-admission into that semester as and when
offered.
• However, in the case of re-admission to a semester (semester detention due to lack of
attendance) by a student, academic regulations applicable to the semester in which re-
admission is sought shall be applicable to the re-admitted student.
• In the case of re-admission by a student, academic regulations applicable at the time of
student admission in the programme shall be applicable.
• In case, if there are any professional electives and / or open electives, the same may also be
re-registered if offered. However, if those electives are not offered in later semesters, then
alternate electives may be chosen from the same set of elective courses offered under that
category.
• Any student against whom any disciplinary action is pending shall not be permitted to attend
semester end examinations in that semester.
• A student fulfilling the attendance requirement in the present semester shall not be eligible
for readmission into the same class.
14.0 MINIMUM ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS:
• In addition to the attendance requirements mentioned in 13.0 of these regulations for the
award of M.Tech. degree, a student must satisfy the minimum academic requirements as
given below:
• A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic requirements and earn
the credits for each theory or practical or research methodology and intellectual property
rights course, if he/she secures
✓ A minimum of 40 % marks for each theory course in the Semester End Examination (SEE),
and
✓ A minimum of 50 % marks for each theory course considering both Continuous Internal
Evaluation (CIE) and Semester End Examination (SEE) taken together.
• A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic requirements and earn
the credits allotted to technical seminar and mini-project courses, if he/she secures
✓ A minimum of 50 % marks for technical seminar and mini-project courses in the CIE and
SEE taken together
• A student shall be treated as failed, if he/she
✓ does not submit a report of technical seminar and mini-project courses OR
✓ does not make a presentation of the same before the evaluation committee as per the
schedule, or
✓ secures less than 50 % marks in evaluation.
• A student shall register for all the courses covering 68 credits as specified and listed in the
course structure of the M.Tech. programme, fulfills all the attendance and academic
requirements for 68 credits, ‘earn all 68 credits’ by securing SGPA ≥ 6.0 (in each semester)
and CGPA (at the end of each successive semester) ≥ 6.0 to successfully complete the post
Page | 12
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
graduate programme.
• If a student fails to secure a pass grade in a particular course, it is mandatory that he/she shall
register and reappear for the examination in that course during the next semester when SEE
is conducted in that course. It is mandatory that he/she should continue to register and
reappear for the examination till he secures a pass grade.
• A student eligible to appear in SEE of any course, but remains absent from it or gets failed
(failing to secure ‘B’ grade or above) may reappear for that course in the supplementary SEE
as and when conducted. In such cases, CIE assessed earlier for that course shall be carried
over and added to the marks to be obtained in the supplementary SEE examination for
evaluating the performance in that course.
• A student detained in a SEMESTER due to shortage of attendance, may be re-admitted when
the same semester is offered in the next academic year for fulfillment of academic
requirements.
• Academic regulations applicable to the semester in which re-admission is sought shall be
applicable to the re-admitted student.
• A student detained in a COURSE due to shortage of attendance, may be re-admitted in the
course when the same course is offered in the next academic year for fulfillment of academic
requirements.
• A student shall be given one chance to re-register, after completion of the course work, for
each course, provided the internal marks (CIE) secured by a student are less than 50 % and he
has failed in the SEE. In such a case, a student may re-register for the course(s) with prior
permission and secure the minimum required attendance. Attendance in the re-registered
course(s) shall be calculated separately to become eligible to write the semester end
examination (SEE) in the re-registered course(s).
• Re-registration of course(s) is allowed only if those particular re-registration course(s) are
the hindrance for the award of degree.
• Re-registration is allowed only in those cases where the student doesn’t have any course(s)
yet to pass other than the re-registration course(s) where the CIE marks are less than 50 %.
• However, in the case of re-registration of course(s) by a student, academic regulations
applicable at the time of student admission in the programme shall be applicable.
• A student detained due to shortage of attendance in any course(s) or in any semester, shall
not be allotted any grade in such course(s) and no SGPA / CGPA calculations shall be done
for the entire semester.
• A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 68 credits and earn
all 68 credits for the award of M.Tech. degree.
• Students who fail to earn atleast 68 credits as indicated in the course structure within four
academic years counting from the year of their admission shall forfeit their seat in M.Tech.
programme and their admission stands cancelled.
15.0 DISTRIBUTION OF MARKS AND EVALUATION METHODOLOGY:
• The performance of a student in each semester shall be evaluated course wise with a
maximum of 100 marks for theory and 100 marks for practical courses. In addition, technical
seminar and mini-project courses shall be evaluated for 100 marks each.
15.1 Theory Courses:
• The syllabus for the theory courses shall be divided into SIX units and each unit
carries equal weightage in terms of marks distribution.
• For theory courses, the distribution of marks shall be 40 marks for Continuous
Internal Evaluation (CIE) and 60 marks for the Semester End Examination (SEE).
Page | 13
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
❖ Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE - 40 M):
• Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE) shall consist of sessional examination (SE - 30 M) and
Class Assessment (CA - 10 M).
➢ Sessional Examination (SE - 30 M):
• For theory courses, two sessional examinations shall be conducted in each semester as per
the academic calendar. Each sessional examination shall be evaluated for 30 marks.
• Question paper pattern for sessional examination (30 Marks) shall be as follows:
3 X 10 M = 30 M
a. There shall be one question from each unit with internal choice i.e., ‘either’ ‘or’ choice.
b. The student has to answer one question from each unit.
c. There could be a maximum of two sub divisions in a question i.e., (a) and/or (b).
• Average of two sessional examination marks shall be calculated and used as the final
sessional marks for each course.
➢ Class Assessment (CA - 10 M):
• Two class assessments (CA) consisting of alternative assessment tools like online quiz /
assignment / objective exam / course project / case study etc. shall be conducted covering the
syllabus that is completed at the time of conducting the CA and evaluated for 10 marks each.
• The first and second CAs shall be conducted during the instruction days as mentioned in the
Academic Calendar.
• Average of two CAs shall be calculated and used the final class assessment marks.
• The valuation and verification of answer scripts of CIE shall be completed within a week after
the conduct of the examination.
❖ Semester End Examination (SEE - 60 M):
• The SEE shall be conducted at the end of semester for a total of 60 marks and 3 hours
duration.
• The syllabus for the theory courses is divided into SIX units and each unit carries equal
weightage in terms of marks distribution.
• Question paper pattern for SEE (60 Marks) shall be as follows:
6 X 10 M = 60 M
a. There shall be ONE question from each unit with internal choice i.e., ‘either’ ‘or’ choice.
b. The student has to answer one question from each unit.
c. There could be a maximum of two sub divisions in a question i.e., (a) and/or (b).
15.2 Practical Courses:
• For practical courses, there shall be a continuous internal evaluation (CIE) during the
semester for 40 marks and semester end examination (SEE) for 60 marks. Out of the 40
marks allocated to CIE, 10 marks shall be for day-to-day work in the laboratory, 10 marks for
the practical examination to be conducted at the end of semester, 10 marks for course
project/viva and 10 marks for laboratory record.
• Laboratory SEE shall be conducted at the end of semester for a total of 60 marks of 3 hours
duration.
• SEE shall be conducted by two examiners, one internal and other external concerned with
the subject of the same / other department / Industry.
• The evaluation shall be done as per the standard format provided by DoA.
NOTE:
• Any student who shall remain absent for any of the CIE, for any reason what so ever, shall be
deemed to have secured ‘zero’ marks in the examination and no makeup examination shall
Page | 14
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
be conducted.
15.3 Supplementary Semester End Examinations:
• Supplementary examinations shall be conducted along with regular semester end
examinations (SEE).
• During SEE of even semester, supplementary examinations of odd semester shall be
conducted and during SEE of odd semester, supplementary examinations of even semester
shall be conducted.
15.4 Technical Seminar:
• A student shall present a seminar on a technical topic during the first semester (I year
I semester) of the M.Tech. programme.
• A student, under the supervision of a faculty member, shall collect literature on a technical
topic of his / her choice, critically review the literature and submit it to the Seminar Review
Committee (SRC) in a report form as prescribed by the Academic Section.
• The SRC shall consist of Head of the Department, faculty supervisor and a senior faculty
member of the specialization / department.
• Student shall make an oral presentation before the SRC after clearing the plagiarism check.
• Evaluation of the technical seminar shall consist of CIE and SEE for a total of 100 marks.
• CIE shall be carried out for 40 marks on the basis of review presentation as per the academic
calendar and evaluation format provided by DoA.
• SEE shall be carried out at the end of semester for 60 marks on the basis of an oral
presentation and submission of mini-project report after clearing the plagiarism check.
• A candidate has to secure a minimum of 50 % to be declared successful.
• Prior to the submission of seminar report to the SRC, its soft copy shall be submitted to the
PG Coordinator for PLAGIARISM check.
• The report shall be accepted for submission to the SRC, if the similarity index is less than 30 %.
If the similarity index is more than the required percentage, the student shall be advised to
modify the content accordingly and re-submit the soft copy of the report after one week.
• The maximum number of re-submissions of seminar report after plagiarism check is limited
to TWO. After this, the student shall be deemed to secure ‘Fail’ grade in the Technical
Seminar and shall re-register for it in the next semester.
15.5 Mini-Project:
• A student shall undergo a mini-project during the second semester (I year II semester) of the
M.Tech. programme.
• A student, under the supervision of a faculty member, shall collect literature on an allotted
project topic of his / her choice, critically review the literature, carry out the mini-project,
submit it to the department in a report form as prescribed by the Academic Section and shall
make an oral presentation (seminar) before the departmental Project Review Committee
(PRC).
• Evaluation of the mini-project shall consist of CIE and SEE and shall be done by a Project
Review Committee (PRC) consisting of the Head of the Department, faculty supervisor and a
senior faculty member of the specialization / department for a total of 100 marks.
• CIE shall be carried out for 40 marks on the basis of review presentation as per the academic
calendar and evaluation format provided by DoA.
• SEE shall be carried out at the end of semester for 60 marks on the basis of an oral
presentation and submission of mini-project report after clearing the plagiarism check.
• A student has to secure a minimum of 50 % marks to be declared successful.
• Prior to the submission of mini-project report to the PRC, its soft copy shall be submitted to
Page | 15
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
the PG Coordinator for PLAGIARISM check.
• The mini-project report shall be accepted for submission to the PRC, if the similarity index is
less than 30 %. If the similarity index is more than the required percentage, the student shall
be advised to modify the content accordingly and re-submit the soft copy of the report after
one week.
• The maximum number of re-submissions of mini-project report after plagiarism check is
limited to TWO. After this, the student shall be deemed to secure ‘Fail’ grade in the mini-
project and shall re-register for it in the next semester.
15.6 Project:
• A student shall be permitted to register for the project after satisfying the attendance
requirement in all the courses, i.e., theory and practical courses.
• A Project Review Committee (PRC) shall be constituted with Head of the Department as
Chairperson, PG Coordinator, Project Supervisor and one senior faculty member of the
Department offering the M. Tech. programme.
• Minimum duration of the project work shall be 40 weeks and spread over two semesters.
• There shall be three project reviews namely Project Review I, Project Review II and Project
Review III.
• In Project Review I, a student, in consultation with his Project Supervisor, shall present the
title, objective and plan of action of his project work to the Project Review Committee (PRC)
for approval within four weeks from the commencement of third semester (II year I
semester). A student can initiate the project work only after obtaining the approval of the
PRC.
• If a student wishes to change his supervisor or topic of the project, he can do so with the
approval of the PRC. However, the PRC shall examine whether or not the change of topic /
supervisor leads to a major change of his initial plans of project proposal. If yes, his date of
registration for the project work shall start from the date of change of supervisor or topic, as
the case may be.
• The work on the project shall be initiated at the beginning of the third semester (II year I
semester) and the duration of the project is of two semesters.
• The Project Review II in third semester (II year I semester) shall carry CIE of 100 marks.
Evaluation shall be done by the PRC for 50 marks and project supervisor shall evaluate it for
remaining 50 marks. The project supervisor and PRC shall examine the Problem Definition,
Objectives, Scope of Work, Literature Survey in the same domain and progress of the project
work.
• A student shall secure a minimum of 50% marks to be declared successful in Project Work
Review II. If he fails to obtain the minimum required marks, he shall reappear for Project
Review II as and when conducted as per the academic calendar.
• Project Review III in fourth semester (II year II semester) shall carry CIE of 100 marks.
Evaluation shall be done by the PRC for 50 marks and the project supervisor shall evaluate it
for remaining 50 marks. The PRC shall examine the overall progress of the project work and
decide whether or not the project is eligible for final submission.
• A student shall secure a minimum of 50% of marks to be declared successful in Project Work
Review III. If he fails to obtain the required minimum marks, he has to reappear for Project
Review III as and when conducted as per the academic calendar.
• At the end of fourth semester (II year II semester), the Semester End Examination (SEE) of
Project i.e., project viva-voce shall be conducted and evaluated for 100 marks by an external
examiner from industry / academia. A student shall secure a minimum of 50% marks in the
SEE to be declared as successful in the project viva-voce examination.
Page | 16
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
• A student shall submit his project progress report in two stages atleast with a gap of three
months between them.
• Project Review II and Project Review III shall be carried out in two phases namely Phase-I i.e.,
regular and Phase-II i.e., supplementary as defined in the academic calendar.
• Phase-II (supplementary) shall be conducted only for those students who could not clear the
project review in phase-I (regular).
• Those students who could not secure minimum marks in Project Review II [Phase-II] shall
reappear for Project Review II at the time of Project Review III [Phase-I]. These students shall
reappear for Project Review III in the next academic year at the time of Project Review II
[phase I], only after completion of Project Review II, followed by Project Review III.
• Those students who could not secure minimum marks in Project Review III [Phase-II] shall
reappear for Project Review III in the next academic year only at the time of Project Review II
[Phase-I].
• After approval from the PRC, a soft copy of the thesis shall be submitted for PLAGIARISM
check to the Examination Branch. The thesis shall be accepted for submission and evaluation,
if the similarity index is less than 30%. If the similarity index has more than the required
percentage, the student shall be advised to modify the thesis accordingly and re-submit the
soft copy of the thesis after one month. The plagiarism report should be included in the final
thesis. The maximum number of re-submissions of thesis after plagiarism check is limited to
TWO. After that, the candidate has to register for the project work and work for two
semesters. After three attempts, the admission is liable to be cancelled.
• For the approval of PRC, the candidate shall submit the draft copy of thesis to the Head of
the Department and make an oral presentation before the PRC.
• A student shall be permitted to submit the Project Thesis subjected to fulfilling the following
conditions:
✓ Successful completion of all theory, practical and project related courses including
mandatory / audit courses
✓ Submission not earlier than 40 weeks from the date of approval of the project work by
the PRC.
✓ Presentation of the project work in Show and Tell activity
✓ Publication of a minimum of one research paper (covering atleast 75 % of the project
work) in high impact factor peer-reviewed national / international journals / conferences
indexed in SCOPUS / Web of Science / SCI etc. OR Publication of a Patent based on the
project work. Copy of the paper / patent to be enclosed at the end of the thesis.
✓ Similarity index is less than 30 % in the Plagiarism check. Certificate indicating the same
to be attached in the thesis.
✓ Approval given by the PRC based on successful completion of Project Reviews.
• Three copies of the Project Thesis certified by the supervisor shall be submitted to the
Examination branch.
• The thesis shall be adjudicated by an external examiner selected by the Principal / Chief
Controller of Examinations. For this, the supervisor concerned and Head of the Department
shall submit a panel of three examiners from among the list of experts in the relevant
specialization to the Principal / Chief Controller of Examinations.
• If the report of the external examiner is unsatisfactory, the candidate shall revise and
resubmit the Thesis. If the report of the examiner is unsatisfactory again, the thesis shall be
summarily rejected. Subsequent actions for such dissertations may be considered, only on
Page | 17
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
the specific recommendations of the external examiner and / or Project Review Committee.
No further correspondence in this matter shall be entertained, if there is no specific
recommendation for resubmission.
• If the report of the examiner is satisfactory, the Head of the Department shall coordinate and
make arrangements for the conduct of Project Viva-Voce examination. The Project Viva-Voce
examination shall be conducted by a board consisting of the Supervisor, Head of the
Department and the external examiner who adjudicated the Thesis. The candidate has to
secure a minimum of 50 % of marks in the Project Evaluation (Viva-Voce) examination.
• If the student fails to fulfill the requirements as specified in these regulations, he shall
reappear for the Viva-Voce examination only after three months. In the reappeared
examination also, if he fails to fulfill the requirements, he shall not be eligible for the award of
the degree, unless he is asked to revise and resubmit his project work by the board within a
specified time period (in any case within four years from the date of commencement of his
first year first semester).
• SEE marks of project must be submitted to the Examination branch on the day of the
examination.
15.7 MOOC:
• Meeting with the global requirements, to inculcate the habit of self-learning and in
compliance with the UGC guidelines, MOOC (Massive Open Online Courses) have been
introduced in these regulations.
• The proposed MOOCs would be additional choices in all the elective group courses subject to
their offering in the department as well as their availability in the MOOC platform during the
respective semesters.
• Concerned departments shall declare the list of the courses that a student can pursue
through MOOCs at the beginning of the semester.
• Students interested in pursuing MOOCs shall register the course title at their department
office at the start of the semester against the courses that are announced by the
department.
• Course content for the selected MOOCs shall be drawn from the respective MOOCs link or
shall be supplied by the department.
• Course progress shall be monitored by the course coordinator designated by the HoD.
• Assessment & evaluation of the courses shall be done by the respective MOOC Coordinator.
• Grade obtained through the evaluation of the selected course pursued through MOOC shall
be considered for the SGPA / CGPA calculation.
• Three credits shall be awarded upon successful completion of each MOOC.
15.8 Value Added Courses:
• The value added courses / certificate courses offered through joint ventures with various
industries / organizations provide ample scope for the students as well as faculty to keep
pace with the latest technologies pertaining to their chosen field of studies.
• A plenty of value added programmes shall be proposed by the departments one week before
the commencement of classes.
• The students are given the option to choose the course inclinations as per their choice.
• Students interested in pursuing value added courses shall register for the courses in the
department office at the beginning of the semester against the courses that are announced
by the department.
• Course progress shall be monitored by the course coordinator designated by the HoD.
• Result of value added courses shall be declared with “Satisfactory” or “Not Satisfactory”
performance.
Page | 18
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
• Grade obtained through value added course shall not be considered for the SGPA / CGPA
calculation.
• The student is provided the option of pursuing certificate courses of 40 hours duration
during his / her course of study through MOOCs platform like SWAYAM-NPTEL online
courses, Coursera online courses, BEC certification courses etc.
15.9 Mandatory and Audit Courses:
• A student shall pursue the entire mandatory and audit courses as specified in the course
structure of the M.Tech. programme.
• These courses are among the compulsory courses and do not carry any credits.
• The students shall have four chances in total to clear a specific mandatory and audit course.
• Mandatory courses shall not carry any credits but, securing 50 marks out of 100, shall be the
necessary requirement for the student to qualify for the award of Degree.
• Result of mandatory and audit courses shall be declared with “Satisfactory” or “Not
Satisfactory” performance.
• No marks or letter grade shall be allotted.
15.10 Virtual Laboratories:
• The Virtual Laboratories are internet enabled experiments for remote operation so as to
enhance the curiosity and innovation of students and provide hands-on sessions. The main
aim of virtual labs is to enthuse the students about performing ‘experiments’ and thereby
getting them interested in their respective disciplines in a meaningful way. It is expected that
the competence level of the engineering students will enhance through the use of these labs.
• Advanced laboratories / experiments that are not existing in the Institute and are required for
supplementing the knowledge gained in specific course(s) may be pursued by the students
though the use of Virtual Labs.
• Departments offering M.Tech. programmes shall define the list of virtual laboratories that a
student can take up during the duration of course of study.
• The decision to pursue a virtual laboratory course by a student shall be optional and also in
addition to the mandatory requirement of pursuing practical courses as specified in the
course structure of the programme.
• The virtual laboratories / experiments that a student decides to pursue must be
communicated to the Academic Section through HoD.
16.0 CONDUCT OF SEMESTER END EXAMINATIONS AND EVALUATION:
• Semester end examination (SEE) shall be conducted by the Controller of Examinations (COE)
by inviting Question Papers from the External Examiners.
• Question papers may be moderated for the coverage of syllabus, pattern of questions by an
examiner appointed by the CoE. The appointed examiner shall prepare a detailed answer key
and scheme of valuation and submit it to the CoE.
• Laboratory SEE shall be conducted involving internal and external examiners as defined in
these regulations.
17.0 SCHEME FOR THE AWARD OF DEGREE:
❖ Award of M.Tech. Degree and Class:
• A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the M.Tech. degree if he / she fulfils the
following academic regulations:
✓ Pursued a programme of study for not less than two academic years and not more than
four academic years.
✓ Registered for 68 credits and secured a minimum of 68 credits.
Page | 19
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award of the degree
within four academic years from the year of their admission, shall forfeit their seat in M.Tech.
programme.
18.0 PERFORMANCE AND GRADING SYSTEM:
• Performances of students in each of the courses in the programme are expressed in terms of
Letter Grades based on absolute grading system. The 10-point grading system as with grade
and grade points are shown in the Table 6.
Table 6 Grade and Grade Points
Grade Points(GP)
Marks Obtained Grade Description of Grade
Value Per Credit
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A+ Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 A Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 B+ Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 B Pass 6.00
<50 F Fail
--
Not Appeared the Exam(s) Ab Absent
• A student is eligible for the award of the M.Tech. degree with the class as mentioned in the
following Table 7.
Table 7 CGPA and Class
CGPA Class
>= 8.0 First Class with Distinction
>= 7.0 and <8.0 First Class
>= 6.0 and <7.0 Second Class
• For mandatory and audit courses (non-credit), student shall be awarded ‘Satisfactory’ or
“Not satisfactory” without any credit. This shall not be counted for the computation of SGPA
/ CGPA.
19.0 COMPUTATION OF SGPA AND CGPA:
➢ CALCULATION OF SEMESTER GRADE POINTS AVERAGE (SGPA):
• The performance of each student at the end of each semester shall be indicated in terms of
SGPA. The SGPA shall be calculated as below:
Total earned weighted grade points in a semester
SGPA =
Total credits in a semester
∑P C ∗G
i=1 i i
SGPA=
∑P C
i=1 i
Page | 20
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
Where C= Number of credits allotted to a particular course ‘i’
i
G = Grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to the course ‘i’
i
i = 1,2,…..p represent the number of courses in a particular semester
Note: SGPA is calculated and awarded to those students who pass all the courses in a semester.
➢ CALCULATION OF CUMULATIVE GRADE POINT AVERAGE (CGPA):
The CGPA of a student for the entire programme shall be calculated as given below:
• Assessment of the overall performance of a student shall be obtained by calculating
cumulative grade point average (CGPA), which is weighted average of the grade points
obtained in all courses during the course of study.
Total earned weighted grade points for the entire programme
CGPA=
Total credits for the entire programme
∑m C ∗G
j=1 j j
CGPA=
∑m C
J=1 j
Where C = number of credits allotted to a particular course ‘j’
j
G = grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to that course ‘j’
j
j = 1,2,….m represent the number of courses of the entire programme
• Grade lower than B in any course shall not be considered for CGPA calculation. The CGPA shall
be awarded only when the student acquires the required number of credits prescribed for
the programme.
➢ GRADE CARD:
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each course offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each course
c) The SGPA / CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
➢ ILLUSTRATION OF COMPUTATION OF SGPA AND CGPA
❖ Illustration of calculation of SGPA:
Course Credits Letter Grade Point Credit Point
Course Name
(C) Grade (GP) (CP = C x GP)
Course 1 3 A 8 3 x 8 = 24
Course 2 3 B+ 7 3 x 7 = 21
Course 3 3 B 6 3 x 6 = 18
Course 4 3 O 10 3 x 10 = 30
Course 5 3 C 5 3 x 5 = 15
Course 6 1.5 B 6 1.5 x 6 = 9
Course 7 1.5 A 8 1.5 x 8 = 12
Course 8 2 B 6 2 x 6 = 12
TOTAL
20 TOTAL CREDIT POINTS 141
CREDITS
Page | 21
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
141
Thus, SGPA = = 7.05
20
❖ Illustration of calculation of CGPA upto II semester:
Course Credits Letter Grade Grade Point Credit Point
Semester Course Name
(C) Secured (GP) (CP = C x GP)
I Course 1 3 A 8 3 x 8 = 24
I Course 2 3 B+ 7 3 x 7 = 21
I Course 3 3 B 6 3 x 6 = 18
I Course 4 3 O 10 3 x 10 = 30
I Course 5 3 C 5 3 x 5 = 15
I Course 6 1.5 B 6 1.5 x 6 = 9
I Course 7 1.5 A 8 1.5 x 8 = 12
I Course 8 2 B 6 2 x 6 = 12
II Course 9 3 A 8 3 x 8 = 24
II Course 10 3 A 8 3 x 8 = 24
II Course 11 3 A+ 9 3 x 9 = 27
II Course 12 3 B 6 3 x 6 = 18
II Course 13 3 A 8 3 x 8 = 24
II Course 14 1.5 A 8 1.5 x 8 = 12
II Course 15 1.5 A 8 1.5 x 8 = 12
II Course 16 2 B 6 2 x 6 = 12
TOTAL CREDITS 40 TOTAL CREDIT POINTS 294
294
Thus, CGPA = = 7.35
40
• The above illustrated process of calculation of CGPA shall be followed for each subsequent
semester until fourth semester i.e., (II year II semester).
• The CGPA obtained at the end of fourth semester i.e., (II year II semester) shall be the final
CGPA secured by the student for the entire M.Tech. programme.
20.0 REVALUATION:
• Student can register for the revaluation by paying a prescribed fee.
• The Controller of Examinations (CoE) shall arrange for the revaluation and declare the results.
• Revaluation shall not be permitted to the courses other than theory courses.
21.0 WITH-HOLDING OF RESULTS:
• If a student has not paid pending dues to the Institute / if any case of indiscipline / malpractice
is pending against him, the results of such a student shall be withheld.
• The issue of award of the provisional certificate and the M.Tech. degree is liable to be
withheld in such cases.
22.0 DISCIPLINE:
• Every student is required to observe discipline and decorum both inside and outside the
Institute and not to indulge in any activity which shall tend to bring down the honor of the
Institute.
• If a student indulges in malpractice in any of the theory / practical CIE or SEE, he/she shall be
liable for punitive action as prescribed by the Institute from time to time.
Page | 22
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
23.0 TRANSITORY REGULATIONS:
• A student who has discontinued or has been detained for want of attendance or any other
academic requirements, may be considered for readmission as and when he becomes
eligible.
• He shall take up equivalent courses, as substitute courses in place of repeated courses as
decided by the Chairman of the BoS of the respective departments.
• He shall be admitted under the regulation of the batch in which he is readmitted.
24.0 MINIMUM INSTRUCTION DAYS:
• The minimum instruction days for each semester shall be 16 weeks.
25.0 GENERAL:
• Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in these regulations, they include “she”, “her”,
and “her”.
• The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any interpretation.
• In the case of any discrepancy / ambiguity / doubt arising in the above rules and regulations,
the decision of the Principal shall be final.
• The Chairman, Academic Council may change or amend any or all of the academic regulations
or syllabi at any time and the changes or amendments made shall be applicable to all the
students concerned with effect from the dates as notified by the Institute.
Page | 23
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
MALPRACTICE RULES
DISCIPLINARY ACTION FOR IMPROPER CONDUCT IN EXAMINATIONS
Nature of Malpractices/Improper conduct Punishment
S.No.
If the student:
1. (a) Possesses or keeps accessible in Expulsion from the examination hall and
examination hall, any paper, note book, cancellation of the performance in that
programmable calculators, cell phones, course only.
pager, palm computers or any other form of
material concerned with or related to the
course of the examination (theory or
practical) in which he is appearing but has
not made use of (material shall include any
marks on the body of the student which can
be used as an aid in the course of the
examination)
(b) Gives assistance or guidance or receives it Expulsion from the examination hall and
from any other student orally or by any cancellation of the performance in that
other body language methods or course only of all the students involved. In
communicates through cell phones with any case of an outsider, he shall be handed
student or persons in or outside the exam over to the police and a case is registered
hall in respect of any matter. against him.
2. Has copied in the examination hall from any Expulsion from the examination hall and
paper, book, programmable calculators, cancellation of the performance in that
palm computers or any other form of course and all other courses the student
material relevant to the course of the has already appeared including practical
examination (theory or practical) in which examinations and project work and shall
the student is appearing. not be permitted to appear for the
remaining examinations of the courses of
that Semester/year.
The Hall Ticket of the student is to be
cancelled and sent to the Controller of
Examinations.
3. Impersonates any other student in The student who has impersonated shall
connection with the examination. be expelled from examination hall. The
student is also debarred and forfeits the
seat. The performance of the original
student, who has been impersonated, shall
be cancelled in all the courses of the
examination (including practicals and
project work) already appeared and shall
not be allowed to appear for examinations
of the remaining courses of that
semester/year. The student is also
debarred for two consecutive semesters
from class work and all semester end
examinations. The continuation of the
course by the student is course to the
Page | 24
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
academic regulations in connection with
forfeiture of seat. If the imposter is an
outsider, he shall be handed over to the
police and a case is registered against him.
4. Smuggles in the Answer book or additional Expulsion from the examination hall and
sheet or takes out or arranges to send out cancellation of performance in that course
the question paper during the examination and all the other courses the student has
or answer book or additional sheet, during already appeared including practical
or after the examination. examinations and project work and shall
not be permitted for the remaining
examinations of the courses of that
semester/year. The student is also
debarred for two consecutive semesters
from class work and all semester end
examinations. The continuation of the
course by the student is course to the
academic regulations in connection with
forfeiture of seat.
5. Uses objectionable, abusive or offensive Cancellation of the performance in that
language in the answer paper or in letters course.
to the examiners or writes to the examiner
requesting him to award pass marks.
6. Refuses to obey the orders of the Controller In case of students of the college, they
of Examinations /Additional Controller of shall be expelled from examination halls
Examinations/any officer on duty or and cancellation of their performance in
misbehaves or creates disturbance of any that course and all other courses the
kind in and around the examination hall or student(s) has (have) already appeared
organizes a walk out or instigates others to and shall not be permitted to appear for
walk out, or threatens the COE or any the remaining examinations of the courses
person on duty in or outside the of that semester/year. The students also
examination hall of any injury to his person are debarred and forfeit their seats. In
or to any of his relations whether by words, case of outsiders, they shall be handed
either spoken or written or by signs or by over to the police and a police case is
visible representation, assaults the COE or registered against them.
any person on duty in or outside the
examination hall or any of his relations, or
indulges in any other act of misconduct or
mischief which result in damage to or
destruction of property in the examination
hall or any part of the Institute premises or
engages in any other act which in the
opinion of the officer on duty amounts to
use of unfair means or misconduct or has
the tendency to disrupt the orderly conduct
of the examination.
7. Leaves the exam hall taking away answer Expulsion from the examination hall and
script or intentionally tears of the script or cancellation of performance in that course
any part thereof inside or outside the and all the other courses the student has
examination hall. already appeared including practical
examinations and project work and shall
not be permitted for the remaining
Page | 25
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
examinations of the courses of that
semester/year. The student is also
debarred for two consecutive semesters
from class work and all semester end
examinations. The continuation of the
course by the student is course to the
academic regulations in connection with
forfeiture of seat.
8. Possess any lethal weapon or firearm in the Expulsion from the examination hall and
examination hall. cancellation of the performance in that
course and all other courses the student
has already appeared including practical
examinations and project work and shall
not be permitted for the remaining
examinations of the courses of that
semester/year. The student is also
debarred and forfeits the seat.
9. Is not a candidate for the particular Such a candidate shall be expelled from
examination or any person not connected the examination hall and performance in
with the college indulges in any malpractice that course and all other courses the
or improper conduct mentioned in clause 6 student has already appeared including
to 8. practical examinations and project work be
cancelled and shall not be permitted for
the remaining examinations of the courses
of that semester/year. The student is also
debarred and forfeits the seat.
Person(s) who do not belong to the
College shall be handed over to police and,
a police case shall be registered against
them.
10. Comes in a drunken condition to the Expulsion from the examination hall and
examination hall. cancellation of the performance in that
course and all other courses the student
has already appeared including practical
examinations and project work and shall
not be permitted for the remaining
examinations of the courses of that
semester/year.
11. Copying detected on the basis of internal Cancellation of the performance in that
evidence, such as, during valuation or course and all other courses the student
during special scrutiny. has appeared including practical
examinations and project work of that
semester/year examinations.
12. If any malpractice is detected which is not
covered in the above clauses 1 to 11 shall be
reported to the University for further action
to award suitable punishment.
Page | 26
VNRVJIET M.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
Malpractices identified by squad or special invigilators:
Punishments shall be given to the students as per the above guidelines.
Malpractice identified at Spot center during valuation:
The following procedure shall be followed in the case of malpractice cases detected during
valuation, scrutiny etc. at spot center:
1) Malpractice is detected at the spot valuation.
The case is to be referred to the malpractice committee. Malpractice committee shall meet and
discuss/question the student and based on the evidences, the committee shall recommend
suitable action on the student.
2) A notice is to be served to the student(s) involved, through the Principal, to his address and to
the student(s) permanent address regarding the malpractice and seek explanations.
3) The involvement of staff who are in-charge of conducting examinations, invigilators, examiners
valuing examination papers and preparing / keeping records of documents related to the
examinations in such acts (inclusive of providing incorrect or misleading information) that
infringe upon the course of natural justice to one and all concerned at the examinations shall be
viewed seriously and recommend for award of appropriate punishment after thorough enquiry.
4) Based on the explanation by the party involved and recommendations of the committee action
may be initiated.
5) Malpractice committee:
i. Dean of Academics Chairman
ii. Controller of Examinations Convener
iii. Invigilator Member
iv. Chief Examiner of the course/course expert Member
v. Concerned Head of the Department Member
Page | 27
