SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/VNRMTR22.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
HYDERABAD
(An Autonomous Institute)
ACADEMIC RULES AND REGULATIONS OF TWO-YEAR
M.TECH. REGULAR DEGREE PROGRAMME APPLICABLE
FOR THE STUDENT BATCHES ADMITTED FROM THE
ACADEMIC YEAR 2022 – 2023
1.0 PREAMBLE:
Vallurupalli Nageswara Rao Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and
Technology (VNRVJIET) aims at achieving academic excellence by implementing
new initiatives in teaching-learning and evaluation processes. Based on the
directions of the University Grants Commission (UGC), New Delhi, All India Council
for Technical Education (AICTE), New Delhi and Jawaharlal Nehru Technological
University (JNTU) Hyderabad, VNRVJIET introduced the Choice Based Credit
System (CBCS) in both the under-graduate and post-graduate programmes
offered from the academic year 2015 – 2016. Keeping in view of the
standardization of the higher education system in India, VNRVJIET is continuing
the implementation of CBCS ahead. In line with the National Education Policy
(NEP) 2020, many of the NEP initiatives have been implemented at VNRVJIET.
2.0 SHORT TITLE, APPLICATION AND COMMENCEMENT:
• These regulations shall be called as the “VNRVJIET M.Tech. Choice Based
Credit System (CBCS) Academic Regulations, 2022”. In short, it shall be
referred as ‘VNRVJIET M.Tech. CBCS R22 Regulations’.
• The regulations are quite comprehensive and include definitions of key terms,
semester system, credit system, grading system and other relevant details.
• The regulations detailed herein shall apply to all the regular and professional
under-graduate programmes offered by the Institute.
• These regulations shall be applicable and come into force to the student
batches admitted from the academic year 2022-2023 onwards.
• The Institute may revise, amend or change the regulations, scheme of
examinations and syllabi, from time to time, if found necessary and on
approval by the Academic Council of the Institute, keeping the
recommendations of the BoS in view.
• Any or all such amendments shall be effective from such date and to such
batches of students including those already undergoing the programme, as
may be approved through Academic Council of the Institute.
3.0 CHOICE BASED CREDIT SYSTEM:
• The Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) enables a student to obtain a degree
by accumulating the required number of credits prescribed for that degree.
Under the CBCS, the requirement for awarding a degree is prescribed in terms
1
of number of credits to be completed by the students. The number of credits
earned by the student reflects the knowledge or skill acquired by him / her.
Each course is assigned with a fixed number of credits based on the contents
to be learned. The student also has choice in selecting the courses out of those
offered by the various departments. The grade points earned for each of the
course reflects the student’s proficiency in that course.
• The CBCS provides the student flexibility in duration to complete a programme
of study. The CBCS facilitates transfer of credits earned in different
departments or institutions of higher education in India.
• The CBCS permits students to:
1. Choose electives from a wide range of elective courses offered by the
departments.
2. Undergo additional courses of interest.
3. Adopt an interdisciplinary approach in learning.
4. Make the best use of expertise of the available faculty.
4.0 ABBREVIATIONS:
Abbreviation Full Form
AAT Alternative Assessment Tool
AC Academic Council
AICTE All India Council for Technical Education
B.Tech. Bachelor of Technology
BIE Board of Intermediate Education
BL Bloom’s Level
BT Bloom’s Taxonomy
BoS Board of Studies
C Credit
CA Class Assessment
CBCS Choice Based Credit System
CBSS Credit Based Semester System
CGPA Cumulative Grade Point Average
CIE Continuous Internal Evaluation
CO Course Outcomes
CoE Controller of Examinations
CP Credit Point
D Drawing
DoA Dean of Academics
ELA Experiential Learning Assessment
G Grade
GO Government Order
GP Grade Point
HoD Head of the Department
2
IAC Institute Academic Committee
JNTUH Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad
L Lecture
LES Lateral Entry Scheme
M.Tech. Master of Technology
MOOC Massive Open Online Course
NAAC National Assessment and Accreditation Council
NBA National Board of Accreditation
NEP National Education Policy 2020
NPTEL National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning
OBE Outcome Based Education
P Practical
PG Post-Graduate
Ph.D. Doctor of Philosophy
PO Programme Outcomes
PSO Programme Specific Outcomes
SEE Semester End Examination
SGPA Semester Grade Point System
SWAYAM Study Webs of Active Learning for Young and Aspiring Minds
T Tutorial
UG Under-Graduate
UGC University Grants Commission
Vallurupalli Nageswara Rao Vignana Jyothi Institute of
VNRVJIET
Engineering & Technology
5.0 NOMENCLATURE:
S. Keywords Definition
No.
1. Academic Council: Highest academic body of the Institute and is
responsible for the maintenance of standards
of instruction, education and examination
within the Institute. Academic Council is an
authority as per the AICTE / UGC regulations
and has the right to take decisions on all
academic matters including academic
research.
2. Academic Plan: A document defining the course contents and
complete details of plan of delivery of the
course viz. Course title, Course code, Pre-
requisite, Credit structure, Team of
instructors, Course objectives, Course
outcomes, Mapping of course outcomes and
programmes outcomes, relevant syllabus,
textbook(s) and reference books, Course
session plan and delivery plan, evaluation
3
method, course notices and other course
related aspects.
3. Academic Year: A period that is necessary to complete
courses of study. It consists of two
consecutive (one odd + one even) semesters.
4. Admission Procedure: As prescribed by the Government of
Telangana.
5. Assessment: Assessment is one or more processes, carried
out by the Institution that identify collect and
prepare data to evaluate the achievement of
Program Educational Objectives and Program
Outcomes.
6. Audit Course: A course of study which has neither
evaluation component nor a grade.
7. Autonomous An Institute designated as 'Autonomous' by
Institute: University Grants Commission (UGC), New
Delhi in concurrence with the affiliating
University i.e., Jawaharlal Nehru
Technological University, Hyderabad and
Telangana State Government.
8. Backlog Course: A course is considered to be a backlog course
if the student has obtained a Fail (F) grade.
9. Basic Science Courses of foundational nature in the areas
Courses: of Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Biology
etc.
10. Betterment: Betterment is a way that contributes towards
improvement of the students’ grade in any
course(s). It can be done by either (a) re-
appearing or (b) re-registering for the
course.
11. Board of Studies: An authority, as defined in UGC regulations,
constituted by the Principal for each of the
department separately. The board is
responsible for curriculum design and update
in respect of all the programmes offered by a
department.
12. Branch: A discipline or specialization of a degree
programme like Civil Engineering, Mechanical
Engineering etc.
13. Certificate Course: A course that makes a student gain hands-on
expertise and skills required for holistic
development. It is a mandatory, non-credited
course for the award of degree.
14. Choice Based Credit A system which provides choice for students
System (CBCS): to select from the prescribed courses.
15. Compulsory Course: Course required to be undertaken for the
award of the degree as per the programme.
16. Continuous Internal Summative assessments used to evaluate
Evaluation (CIE): student learning, acquired skills, and
academic attainment during a course.
4
17. Course: A course offered for learning in a particular
semester by the Institute. These could be
theory / laboratory / project work / mini
project / internship etc. and may comprise of
lectures / tutorials / practicals / assignments
/ examination / viva-voce etc. All the courses
need not carry the same weightage. A course
is defined through course objectives and
course outcomes.
18. Course Outcomes Statements describing essential skills that
(CO): each and every student need to acquire at
the end of a course. They can be from 3 to 5
for all the courses.
19. Course Registration: Process of enrolling into a set of courses in a
semester of the programme.
20. Credit: A unit by which the course work is measured.
It determines the number of hours of
instructions required per week. One credit is
equivalent to one lecture hour of teaching
(lecture or tutorial) or two hours of practical
/ fieldwork per week.
21. Credit Based A system which prescribes the number of
Semester System credits to be secured by the student for the
(CBSS): requirement of award of degree.
22. Credit Point: A product of grade point and number of
credits for a course.
23. Credit Transfer: The procedure of granting credit(s) to a
student for course(s) undertaken online
through MOOC.
24. Cumulative Grade A measure of overall cumulative performance
Point Average of a student over all semesters. It is the ratio
(CGPA): of total credit points secured by a student in
various courses in all semesters and the sum
of the total credits of all courses in all the
semesters. It is expressed up to two decimal
places.
25. Curriculum: Curriculum incorporates all the courses that
are offered in a specific discipline. It also
indicates the planned interaction of students
with instructional content, materials and
resources.
26. Degree: A student who fulfills all the programme
requirements is eligible to receive a degree.
27. Department: An academic entity that conducts relevant
curricular and co-curricular activities,
involving both teaching and non-teaching
staff and other resources.
28. Detention: Student who does not secure minimum
required attendance in AGGREGATE shall be
detained OR Student who does not secure
5
minimum credits required for promotion from
one year to the next shall be detained.
29. Dropping of Courses: A student who does not want to register
certain courses should do so in writing in a
prescribed format within the time frame as
mentioned in these regulations.
30. Engineering Science Courses belonging to the basic evolutionary
Courses: aspects of engineering from Mechanical
Engineering, Electrical Engineering,
Computer Science etc. like Workshop
Practices, Engineering Graphics, Engineering
Drawing, Programming through C, Basics of
Electrical Energy for Engineers, Engineering
Mechanics, etc.
31. Evaluation: Evaluation is the process of judging the
academic work done by the student in his /
her courses. It is done through a combination
of continuous internal evaluation and
semester end examinations.
32. Field Project: A credit-based course that a student has to
undergo, as prescribed in the programme,
which involves the student to undertake
issues for industries, companies, and any
organizations which they encounter in their
day-to-day work.
33. Grade Point: A numerical weight allotted to each letter
grade on a 10-point scale.
34. Grade Sheet: Based on the grades earned, a grade sheet
shall be issued to all the registered students
after every semester. The grade sheet shall
display the course details (Course code,
Course title, number of credits, grade
secured) along with SGPA of that semester
and CGPA earned till that semester.
35. Humanities & Social Courses offered in the area of humanities and
Sciences Courses: liberal arts.
36. Industry A course consisting of visits to industries and
Engagement: series of lectures by eminent speakers from
the Industry/Research
37. Industrial Visit: Visit to a company / firm as per the academic
requirement.
38. Institute: VNRVJIET
39. Internship: A period of training / work experience offered
by an industry / research organization /
academic institution for a limited period of
time as specified in these regulations.
40. Laboratory based A student-centric learning methodology
Course Projects: wherein students work as individuals or in
teams in a laboratory for design, problem-
solving, decision making, and investigative
activities.
6
41. Letter Grade: An index of the performance of students in a
said course. Grades are denoted by letters
like O, A+, A, B+, B, C, F, Ab.
42. Mandatory Courses: Compulsory non-credit courses that a
student need to study as prescribed in the
programme.
43. Mapping Mapping is the process of representing the
correlation among the Course Outcomes and
program Outcomes and Program Specific
Outcomes in a matrix form.
44. Massive Open Online Open access online courses aimed at
Courses (MOOC): providing ways to learn new skills.
45. Mini-Project A credit-based course that a student has to
undergo during a specified semester
involving exploration in a discipline belonging
to their research interest within their
programme of study.
46. Open Elective Courses of interdisciplinary nature offered to
Courses: all the students of various programmes
across the Institute.
47. Outcome Based An educational theory wherein each part of
Education: an educational system is based around goals
(outcomes). Each student should have
achieved the goal by the end of the
educational experience.
48. Overloading: Registering for more number of credits than
normally prescribed by the programme in a
semester.
49. Pre-requisite: A course whose knowledge is required for
registration into higher level course.
50. Professional Core Courses that are fundamental constituents of
Courses: the respective engineering discipline.
51. Professional Elective Courses those are discipline specific.
Courses:
52. Programme: A set of courses offered by the department
leading to the award of degree in that
programme.
53. Programme Broad statements that describe the career
Educational and professional accomplishments that the
Objectives (PEO): program is preparing graduates to achieve.
54. Programme Outcomes Statements describing the essential skill sets
(PO): that each and every student need to possess
at the time of graduation. These skill sets
based on the graduate attributes as defined
by the National Board of Accreditation (NBA)
are in the areas of employability,
entrepreneurial, social, and behavioral
aspects. They are 12 in number for a specific
programme and are subjected to modification
from time to time as defined by the NBA.
7
55. Programme Specific Statements that describe what the graduates
Outcomes (PSO): of a specific programme should be able to do.
They can be 3 to 5 in number for a specific
programme.
56. Project: A credit-based course that a student has to
undergo, as prescribed in the programme,
which involves the student to undertake a
research or design that is carefully planned
to achieve a particular aim.
57. Re-appearing: A student can reappear only in the
supplementary semester end examination for
the external component of a course, subject
to the exam registration and the regulations
contained herein.
58. Regulations: The rules and regulations contained herein
that are common to all the B.Tech.
programmes offered by the Institute and
designated as “VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R22
Regulations”
59. Re-registering: A student desiring to repeat a course is
permitted to do so, subject to the regulations
contained herein.
60. Rubrics: Tool for assessment and grading for
measuring students’ performance and
learning.
61. Semester: Each semester shall consist of 16 weeks of
academic work excluding examination and
evaluation.
62. Semester End An examination conducted at the end of a
Examination: course of study i.e., after the completion of
instruction in a semester.
63. Semester Grade Point A measure of performance of work done in a
Average: semester. It is ratio of total credit points
secured by a student in various courses
registered in a semester and the total course
credits taken during that semester. It shall be
expressed up to two decimal places.
64. Skill Development A credit-based course offered for gaining
Course: experience in certain skills.
65. Substitute Courses: A course that is offered in place of another
course that is already studied by the student
and is repeated in the semester of study.
66. Technical Seminar: A course in which a student shall collect
literature on a technical topic of his / her
choice, critically review the literature and
present it to the Seminar Review Committee
(SRC).
8
67. Underloading: Registering for lesser number of credits than
normally prescribed by the programme in a
semester.
68. University: Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University
Hyderabad
69. Virtual Laboratories: Web enabled experiments for remote
operation so as to increase the curiosity and
innovation of students and provide hands-on
experience.
6.0 POST-GRADUATE DEGREE PROGRAMMES ON OFFER:
VNRVJIET offers 2-year (4 semesters) Master of Technology (M.Tech.) degree
programme, under Choice Based Credit System (CBCS), with effect from the
academic year 2022 - 2023 onwards, in the branches as shown in the Table 1.
Table 1 M.Tech. programmes of study on offer
Department
Offering the M.Tech. Branch / Specialization
Programme
Structural Engineering
CE Geotechnical Engineering
Highway Engineering
Power Electronics
EEE
Power Systems
Advanced Manufacturing Systems
ME
CAD/CAM
VLSI System Design
ECE
Embedded Systems
Software Engineering
CSE
Computer Science and Engineering
EIE Electronics and Instrumentation
IT Computer Networks and Information Security
7.0 ELIGIBILITY FOR ADMISSION:
The eligibility criteria for admission into M.Tech. degree programmes offered at
VNRVJIET shall be as prescribed by the Government of Telangana.
• Admissions shall be made on the basis of Rank / Percentile earned by the
candidate in the relevant GATE examination / merit rank obtained by the
qualifying candidate in the entrance test - PGECET conducted by the
Government of Telangana for M.Tech. programmes or as decided by TSCHE
subject to the reservations as prescribed by the University / State Government
/ on the basis of any other order of merit as decided by TSCHE from time to
time.
9
8.0 MEDIUM OF INSTRUCTION:
The medium of instruction for the entire M.Tech. programmes shall be English for
all the courses including their content delivery and examinations, seminars,
presentations, and project evaluation as prescribed in the programme curriculum.
9.0 M.TECH. PROGRAMME STRUCTURE:
The structure of the M.Tech. programmes on offer at VNRVJIET are based on the
Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) and Credit Based Semester System
(CBSS) as defined by the UGC and the curriculum / course structure as suggested
by the AICTE in its Model Curriculum.
Semester Scheme:
• The M.Tech. programmes offered at VNRVJIET follow semester scheme
pattern.
• The duration of a M.Tech. programme shall be of 2 academic years.
• Each academic year shall have 2 semesters i.e., odd and even semesters and
shall be counted as I semester, II semester, III semester and IV semester.
• Each semester shall consist of 22 weeks (≥90 instructional days) of academic
work including examination and evaluation.
• Each semester is structured to provide credits totaling to 68 credits for the
entire M.Tech. programme.
• Each semester shall have ‘Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE)’ and
‘Semester End Examination (SEE).’
• Each student shall secure a total of 68 credits with a CGPA ≥ 6.0 required
for the completion of the M.Tech. programme and the award of the M.Tech.
degree.
• A student after securing admission into a M.Tech. programme at VNRVJIET
shall pursue and acquire the M.Tech. degree in a minimum period of two
academic years i.e., 4 semesters and a maximum period of four
academic years i.e., 8 semesters starting from the date of commencement
of I semester (I year I semester), failing which the student shall forfeit the seat
in M.Tech. programme.
10.0 DURATION OF THE ACADEMIC PROGRAMMES:
• Under CBCS, programme duration shall be defined by the period in which a
student earns the prescribed credits for the award of M.Tech. degree.
❖ Normal Duration:
• The duration of the M.Tech. degree programme shall be two years.
❖ Maximum Duration:
• The maximum period in which a student can complete a full time M.Tech.
degree programme shall be twice the normal duration of the programme,
i.e., four years (8 semesters) for M.Tech. degree.
• The maximum period for a programme shall also be dictated by the fact that a
student has to demonstrate the prescribed minimum academic performance by
registering for the prescribed number of credits in every semester, for
continuing in the programme. This period can be equal to or lesser than the
maximum period indicated as indicated above.
10
11.0 COURSES AND CREDIT STRUCTURE:
• Every course in the M.Tech. programme of study has a Lecture-Tutorial-
Practical (L-T-P) component attached to it. Based upon the L-T-P structure, the
credits are allotted to a course using the criteria as shown in the Table 2.
Table 2 Contact hour and credit structure
Contact Hours
Type of Course Component Credits (C)
/ Week
Lecture (L) 1 1
Theory
Tutorial (T) 1 1
Laboratory Practical (P) 2 1
Drawing / Design Drawing / Design (D) 2 1
• Courses like Research Methodology and IPR, Happiness and Wellness, Ancient
Wisdom, Disaster Management, Constitution of India etc. are mandatory audit
courses. These courses shall not carry any credits.
• Every course of the M.Tech. programme shall be offered by a specific section /
department. The unique codes of the section / department offering the courses
are given in the Table 3.
Table 3 Course offering section / branch / department
Course Offering Section / Branch / Department Code
English EN
Mathematics MT
Management MG
Humanities & Social Sciences HS
Structural Engineering ST
Geotechnical Engineering GT
Highway Engineering HW
Power Electronics PL
Power Systems PS
Advanced Manufacturing Systems AM
CAD/CAM CD
VLSI System Design VS
Embedded Systems ES
Software Engineering SW
Computer Science and Engineering CP
Electronics and Instrumentation LI
Computer Networks and Information Security CN
11
❖ Structure:
• Every M.Tech. programme of study shall be designed to have theory and
laboratory courses. In addition, a student shall carry out research methodology
and IPR, mini project, technical seminar, project/dissertation and mandatory
non-credit courses as prescribed in the curriculum of the programmes.
• Every course offered under a M.Tech. programme shall be placed in one of the
course categories with minimum credits as listed in the Table 4.
• The course group / category along with their broad classification and
description are listed in the Table 5.
Table 4 Category of Courses, their Codes and Distribution of Credits
Range Credit
Type of Courses Course Category Code of Composition
Credits (%)
Professional Core PC 22 32.35
Communication Skills
for Academic and SD 01
Research Writing
Compulsory
Industry Engagement PW 01
Courses
41.18
Project PW 22
Technical Seminar PW 02
Mini-project PW 02
Professional Elective PE 15 22.06
Elective Courses
Open Elective OE 03 4.41
Mandatory Audit Non-
Mandatory MN --
Courses Credit
Total 68 100
MOOC Online OL -- --
Virtual Laboratories Online VL -- --
Table 5 Description of Courses
Broad Course Course Group/
Description of Courses
Classification Category
Includes core courses related to the parent
Professional Core discipline / department / branch of
Engineering
M.Tech. Project / Dissertation Part-I and
Project Work
Part-II
Core Mini-project M.Tech. Mini-project
Technical Seminar Seminar on a technical topic
Industry Visits to Industry and series of lectures by
Engagement Industry professionals
12
Includes elective courses related to the
Professional
parent discipline / department / branch of
Electives
Engineering
Elective courses which include inter -
Elective
disciplinary courses or courses in an area
Open Electives
outside the parent discipline / department /
branch of Engineering
Mandatory - Mandatory non-credit courses
12.0 REGISTRATION / DROPPING/ OFFERING OF COURSE(S):
❖ Course Registration:
• All the students must compulsorily register for course work at the beginning of
each semester as per the schedule mentioned in the Academic Calendar.
• It is essential for the students to register for all the prescribed courses in time.
• The registration shall be organized by the department under the supervision of
the Head of the Department.
• Every course may have one or more of its preceding course(s) as
prerequisite(s).
• A ‘faculty advisor or program coordinator or mentor or counselor’ shall be
assigned to a group of 20 students, who shall advise them about the M.Tech.
programme, its course structure and curriculum, choice / option for course /
courses, based on their competence, progress, pre-requisites if any and
interest.
• The academic section of the college shall invite ‘registration forms’ from
students before the beginning of the semester through ‘on-line registration,’
ensuring ‘date and time stamping’.
• The online registration requests for any ‘current semester’ shall be completed
before the commencement of SEEs (Semester End Examinations) of
the ‘preceding semester.’
• A student shall register courses online with the approval of faculty advisor or
mentor or counselor.’ A copy of it shall be retained by the student and other
copies be submitted online to the concerned HoD, faculty mentor and Dean of
Academics.
• A student may be permitted to register for all the courses in a semester with
credits as prescribed in the course structure of the concerned M.Tech.
programme with maximum additional course(s) limited to 6 credits (any 2
elective courses), based on the progress and SGPA / CGPA, and completion of
the ‘pre-requisites’ as indicated for various courses, in the course structure of
the programmes and syllabus contents.
• Choice for ‘additional courses’, not more than any 2 elective courses in any
semester, must be clearly indicated, which needs the specific approval and
signature of the faculty advisor or mentor or counselor and HoD.
• Additional courses shall be offered only upon meeting the prerequisites, if any,
as mentioned in the programme curriculum.
• If the student submits ambiguous choices or multiple options or
erroneous entries during on-line registration of the courses as listed
in the course structure, only the first mentioned course shall be taken
into consideration and shall be treated as FINAL choice.
• Course options exercised through ‘on-line registration’ shall be FINAL
13
and cannot be changed or inter-changed; further, alternate choices
also shall not be considered.
• However, if the course that has already been listed for registration by the Head
of the Department in a semester could not be offered due to any unforeseen
or unexpected reasons, then the student shall be allowed to have alternate
choice either for a new course (subject to offering of such a course), or for
another existing course (subject to the availability of seats). Such alternate
arrangements shall be made by the Head of the Department, with due
notification and time-frame schedule, within the first week after the
commencement of classwork for that semester.
• IN ABSENTIA registration shall not be permitted under any circumstance.
• At the time of registration, students should have cleared all the dues
of Institute and Hostel (if applicable) in the previous semesters, paid
the prescribed fees for the current semester and not been debarred
from Institute for a specified period on disciplinary or any other
ground.
❖ Open Elective Courses:
• The students shall choose one open elective course in third semester (II
year I semester) from the list of open electives as prescribed in the course
structure of the programme.
• Open elective courses that are already studied by a student cannot be pursued
again/repeated even if offered.
• Open elective courses should not match with any course category (Professional
Core, Professional Electives, Mandatory Courses etc.) even in the forthcoming
semesters.
❖ Professional Elective Courses:
• Students shall register for a total of 05 professional elective courses (PE-
I to PE-V) from the list of professional elective courses as prescribed in the
course structure of the programme.
• Compulsory core courses can be chosen by the students of the respective
disciplines only.
• However, the students of a particular discipline can register for discipline /
interdisciplinary courses of other disciplines provided they have met the pre-
requisite or when the pre-requisite is waived by Dean of Academics. Courses
that are already studied by a student cannot be pursued again/repeated even
if offered.
• In case of options from students of other departments/branches/disciplines for
professional elective courses (not open elective courses), first priority shall be
given to the student of the parent department.
❖ Dropping of Courses:
• Dropping of one or more courses may be permitted, only after obtaining prior
approval from the faculty advisor or mentor or counselor (subject to retaining
of minimum credits as prescribed in these regulations), ‘within a period of
15 days’ from the beginning of the current semester for maintaining
studentship.
• The dropped courses are not recorded in the Grade Card.
• Student must complete the dropped course by registering them as and when
offered in the next semester in order to earn the required credits. This is in
addition to the minimum number of credits that are required to continue
14
studentship in a semester. However, the total credits registered in a semester
should not exceed the maximum number of credits permitted to register in that
semester.
13.0 ATTENDANCE REQUIREMENTS AND DETENTION POLICY:
• Attendance in all classes (Lectures/Laboratories) is compulsory.
• A student shall maintain a minimum required attendance of 75 % in ALL
THE COURSES, including mandatory audit courses.
• Minimum required attendance of 75% shall be maintained in all the mandatory
courses offered in a semester like Research Methodology & IPR, Happiness and
Wellness, Ancient Wisdom, Disaster Management, Constitution of India etc.
• Two periods of attendance for each theory course shall be considered if
the student appears for the sessional examination of that course.
• Shortage of attendance upto a maximum of 10% (considering the days of
attendance in sports, games, NCC, NSS activities and Medical grounds) i.e.,
attendance between 65% to 75% in each course (Theory/Lab/Mini-
Project/Technical Seminar) of a semester, may be condoned by the Institute
Academic Committee based on the rules prescribed by the Institute Academic
Committee from time to time.
• Shortage of attendance below 65 % shall in NO CASE be condoned.
• A stipulated fee, as fixed by the Institute, shall be payable towards condonation
of shortage of attendance.
• A student whose shortage of attendance is not condoned in any
course(s) like Theory, Laboratory, Mini Project, Technical Seminar in
any semester is considered as ‘DETAINED’ in these Course(s) and is
not eligible to write the SEE.
• A student who has not paid the stipulated fee OR who have not cleared
any other fee dues to the Institute in any semester are not eligible to
write the Semester End Examination (SEE).
• Students, who do not meet the minimum required attendance in a
semester, shall be detained in that semester and their registration for that
semester shall stand cancelled, including all academic credentials
(internal marks etc.) of that semester. They shall not be promoted to
the next semester.
• Student detained in a course(s) shall seek re-admission for all such courses in
subsequent semesters and attend the same as and when offered.
• Students detained in a semester shall seek re-admission into that semester as
and when offered again.
• However, in the case of re-admission to a semester (semester detention due
to lack of attendance) by a student, academic regulations applicable to the
semester in which re-admission is sought shall be applicable to the re-admitted
student.
• In case if there are any professional electives and/or open electives, the same
may also be re-registered if offered. However, if those electives are not offered
in the later semesters, then alternate electives may be chosen from the same
set of elective courses offered under that category.
• Any student against whom any disciplinary action is pending shall not be
permitted to attend semester end examination (SEE) in that semester.
• A student fulfilling the attendance requirement in the present
semester shall not be eligible for re-admission into the same class.
15
13.1 Promotion Rules:
• Apart from the minimum required attendance conditions as specified
in 13.0 of these regulations, the attendance conditions to be fulfilled
by a student for getting promoted from the current semester to the next
semester are given in the Table 6.
Table 6 Promotion Rules
S.
Promotion Conditions to be fulfilled
No.
1 I semester (I year I i. Regular course of study of I semester
semester) to II semester (I (I year I semester)
year II semester) ii. Must have put-in minimum required
attendance of 75% in atleast 03
theory courses excluding mandatory
audit courses
2 II semester (I year i . R e g u l a r c o u r se of study of II semester
II semester) to III semester (I year II semester).
(II year I semester) ii. Must have put-in minimum required
attendance of 75% in atleast 03
theory courses excluding mandatory
audit courses
14.0 MINIMUM ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS:
• In addition to the attendance requirements mentioned in 13.0 of these
regulations for the award of M.Tech. degree, a student must satisfy the
minimum academic requirements as given below:
• A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic
requirements and earned the credits for each theory and practical courses
in M.Tech. programme, if student secures
✓ A minimum of 40% marks (16 marks out of 40 marks) for each course
in the continuous internal evaluation (CIE)
✓ A minimum of 40% marks (24 marks out of 60 marks) for each course
in the semester end examination (SEE), and
✓ A minimum of 50% marks (50 marks out of 100 marks) for each
course considering both CIE and SEE taken together.
✓ In terms of letter grades, a ‘B’ grade and above in that course.
✓ A student is eligible to write Semester End Examination of the
concerned course, if the student scores ≥ 40% marks (i.e., 16
marks out of 40 marks) in CIE.
✓ In case, the student appears for Semester End Examination (SEE)
of the concerned course but fails to score minimum 40% marks (
i.e., 16 marks out of 40 marks), then his/her performance in that
course in SEE shall stand cancelled inspite of student appearing for
the SEE.
• A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic
requirements and earned the credits allotted to Industry Engagement,
Technical Seminar and Mini-project courses, if student secures
✓ A minimum of 50% of total marks (50 marks out of 100 marks) for
industry engagement, technical seminar and mini-project courses in the
CIE and SEE taken together
16
• A student shall be treated as failed, if he
✓ does not submit a report on industry engagement, technical seminar and
mini-project, OR
✓ does not make a presentation of the same before the evaluation
committee as per the schedule, OR
✓ secures less than 50% marks (50 marks out of 100 marks) in overall
evaluation
o The failed student shall reappear for the above evaluation when the
notification for supplementary examination is issued.
• In order to successfully complete the M.Tech. degree programme, a student
shall
o register for all the courses covering 68 credits as specified and listed in
the course structure of the M.Tech. programme,
o fulfills all the attendance and academic requirements for 68 credits,
o ‘earn all 68 credits’ by securing SGPA ≥ 6.0 (in each semester) and
CGPA ≥ 6.0 (at the end of each successive semester)
o passes all the mandatory courses
• SGPA shall be computed and printed on the marks memo only if the student
passes in all the courses offered and secures a minimum of ‘B’ grade in all the
courses.
• CGPA shall be calculated only when a student passes all the courses offered in
all the semesters of the M.Tech. programme.
• The performance of the student in these 68 credits shall be considered for the
calculation of the final CGPA (at the end of the M.Tech. programme) and shall
be indicated in the grade card/marks memo of IV semester (II year II
semester).
• If a student registers for ‘extra courses’ (in the parent department or other
departments/branches of Engineering) other than those listed courses totaling
to 68 credits as specified in the course structure of his department, then the
performances in those ‘extra courses’ (although evaluated and graded using the
same procedure as that of the required 68 credits) shall not be considered while
calculating the SGPA and CGPA. For such ‘extra courses’ registered, percentage
of marks and letter grade alone shall be indicated in the grade card / marks
memo as a performance measure, subject to completion of the attendance and
academic requirements as stated in items 13 and 14 above in these regulations.
• If a student fails to secure a pass grade in a particular course, it is mandatory
that he shall register and reappear for the examination in that course during
the next semester when SEE is conducted in that course. It is mandatory that
he should continue to register and reappear for the examination till he secures
a pass grade.
• A student eligible to appear in SEE of any course but remains absent from it or
gets failed (failing to secure B’ grade or above) may reappear for that course
in the supplementary SEE as and when conducted. In such cases, CIE assessed
earlier for that course shall be carried over and added to the marks to be
obtained in the supplementary SEE examination for evaluating the
performance in that course.
• A student detained in a SEMESTER due to shortage of attendance, may be re-
admitted when the same semester is offered in the next academic year for
fulfillment of academic requirements. Academic regulations applicable to the
semester in which re-admission is sought shall be applicable to the re-admitted
student, by paying the prescribed readmission fees per semester.
• A student detained in a COURSE(S) due to shortage of attendance, may be
17
allowed to re-register in the course(s) when the same course(s) is offered in
the next academic year for fulfillment of academic requirements, by paying the
prescribed fees per course. Academic regulations applicable to the semester in
which course re-registration is sought shall be applicable to the re-registered
student.
• A student detained in any course(s) in any semester due to shortage
of attendance, no grade allotments or SGPA/ CGPA calculations shall be made
for that semester. A student allowed to re-register a course(s), student shall
have to secure a fresh set of internal marks and semester end examination
marks for performance evaluation in such courses for SGPA/CGPA calculations.
• A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all
68 credits and earn all 68credits for the award of M.Tech. degree.
• Students who fail to earn 68 credits as indicated in the course structure
within four academic years counting from the year of their admission
shall forfeit his seat in M.Tech. programme and his admission stands
cancelled.
16.0 DISTRIBUTION OF MARKS AND EVALUATION METHODOLOGY:
• The performance of a student in each semester shall be evaluated course wise
with a maximum of 100 marks for theory and practical courses. In
addition, technical seminar and mini-project courses shall be evaluated for 100
marks each.
16.1 Theory Courses:
• The syllabus for the theory courses shall be divided into FIVE units and each
unit carries equal weightage in terms of marks distribution.
• For all theory courses, the distribution of marks shall be 40 marks for
Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE) and 60 marks for the
Semester End Examination (SEE).
❖ Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE - 40 M):
• Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE) shall consist of sessional examination (SE
- 30 M), Class Assessment (CA - 05 M) and Experiential Learning Assessment
(ELA – 05 M).
➢ Sessional Examination (SE - 30 M):
• For theory courses, two sessional examinations (SE-I and SE-II) shall be
conducted in each semester as per the academic calendar. Each sessional
examination shall be evaluated for 30 marks.
• The time duration of each SE shall be 2 hours.
• Question paper pattern for SE (30 Marks) shall be as follows:
PART-A: 5 X 2 M = 10 M
a. All questions are compulsory.
b. 02 questions from Unit-I and Unit-II each and 01 question from first half of
Unit-III in First sessional examination (SE-I)
c. 01 question from second half of Unit-III and 02 questions from Unit-IV and
Unit-V each in Second sessional examination (SE-II)
PART-B: 20 M
a. There shall be a total of 06 questions.
b. There shall be two questions from each UNIT with internal choice i.e.,
18
‘either’ ‘or’ choice.
c. Student shall answer one question from each UNIT.
d. Part-B Paper pattern is as follows:
Q.1 8 M
UNIT-I OR
Q.2 8 M
Q.3 8 M
Sessional Examination
UNIT-II OR
– I (SE-I)
Q.4 8 M
Q.5 4 M
UNIT-III OR
Q.6 4 M
Q.1 4 M
UNIT-III OR
Q.2 4 M
Q.3 8 M
Sessional Examination
UNIT-IV OR
– II SE-II)
Q.4 8 M
Q.5 8 M
UNIT-V OR
Q.6 8 M
• First sessional examination (SE-I) shall be conducted on Unit-I, Unit-II and first
half of the Unit-III.
• Second sessional examination (SE-II) shall be conducted on second half of the
Unit-III, Unit-IV and Unit-V.
• Average of two SEs shall be calculated and used as the final sessional marks
for each course.
➢ Class Assessment (CA - 05 M):
• Two class assessments consisting of any one of the alternative assessment
tools (AAT) like online quiz / assignment / objective exam etc. shall be
conducted covering the syllabus that is completed at the time of conducting
the CA and evaluated for 05 marks each.
• The first and second CAs shall be conducted during the instruction days as per
the academic calendar.
• Average of two CAs shall be calculated and used as the final class assessment
marks.
• The valuation and verification of answer scripts of CIE shall be completed within
a week after the conduct of the examination.
19
➢ Experiential Learning Assessment (ELA - 05 M):
• Course project / course viva-voce / poster presentation / case study
etc. in the concerned course shall be conducted before Sessional
Examination-I (SE-I) and Sessional Examination-II (SE-II) and
evaluated for 05 marks.
• Average of two ELAs shall be calculated and used as the final sessional marks
for each course.
❖ Semester End Examination (SEE - 60 M):
• The SEE shall be conducted at the end of semester for a total of 60 marks.
• The time duration of the SEE shall be 3 hours.
• The syllabus for the theory courses shall be divided into FIVE units and
each unit carries equal weightage in terms of marks distribution.
• Question paper pattern for SEE (60 Marks) shall be as follows:
PART-A: 5 X 2 M = 10 M
a. There shall be one question from each UNIT.
b. All questions are compulsory.
PART-B: 5 X 10 M = 50 M
a. There shall be two questions from each unit with internal choice i.e.,
‘either’ ‘or’ choice.
b. The student shall answer one question from each UNIT.
c. There could be a maximum of two subdivisions in a question i.e., (a) and/or
(b).
16.2 Practical Courses:
• For practical courses including Communication Skills for
Academic and Research Writing, there shall be a continuous internal
evaluation (CIE) during the semester for 40 marks and 60 marks for
semester end examination (SEE).
• CIE (40 marks) shall consist of
✓ Day-to-day 10 marks
✓ Laboratory record 10 marks
✓ Internal practical examination 10 marks
✓ Course project consists of Design or 10 marks
Software / Hardware Model presentation or
App Development or Prototype development etc.
• SEE shall be conducted at the end of semester for a total of 60 marks.
• The time duration of the SEE shall be 3 hours.
• SEE (60 marks) shall consist of
✓ Initial procedures & diagrams 10 marks
✓ Conduct of experiment & collection of data 15 marks
✓ Analysis of data / results / graphs etc. 15 marks
✓ Course project report 10 marks
✓ Viva-voce on concerned laboratory course 10 marks
• SEE shall be conducted by two examiners, one internal and other external
concerned with the subject area from the same / other department / Industry.
20
NOTE:
• Any student who shall remain absent for any of the CIE, for any reason
whatsoever, shall be deemed to have secured ‘zero’ marks in the
examination and no makeup examination shall be conducted.
16.3 Supplementary Semester End Examinations:
• Supplementary examinations shall be conducted along with regular semester
end examinations (SEE).
• During SEE of even semester, supplementary examinations of odd semester
shall be conducted and during SEE of odd semester, supplementary
examinations of even semester shall be conducted.
16.4 Technical Seminar:
• A student shall present a seminar on a technical topic during the first semester
(I year I semester) of the M.Tech. programme.
• A student, under the supervision of a faculty member, shall collect literature
on a technical topic of his / her choice, critically review the literature and submit
it to the Seminar Review Committee (SRC) in a report form as prescribed by
the Academic Section.
• The SRC shall consist of Head of the Department, faculty supervisor and a
senior faculty member of the specialization / department.
• Student shall make an oral presentation before the SRC after clearing the
plagiarism check.
• Evaluation of the technical seminar shall consist of CIE and SEE for a total of
100 marks.
• CIE shall be carried out for 40 marks on the basis of review presentation as
per the academic calendar and evaluation format provided by DoA.
• SEE shall be carried out at the end of semester for 60 marks on the basis of
an oral presentation and submission of mini-project report after clearing the
plagiarism check.
• A candidate has to secure a minimum of 50 % to be declared successful.
• Prior to the submission of seminar report to the SRC, its soft copy shall be
submitted to the PG Coordinator for PLAGIARISM check.
• The report shall be accepted for submission to the SRC, if the similarity index
is less than 25 %. If the similarity index is more than the required
percentage, the student shall be advised to modify the content accordingly and
re-submit the soft copy of the report after one week.
• The maximum number of re-submissions of seminar report after plagiarism
check is limited to TWO. After this, the student shall be deemed to secure
‘Fail’ grade in the Technical Seminar and shall re-register for it in the next
semester.
16.5 Mini-Project:
• A student shall undergo a mini-project during the second semester (I year II
semester) of the M.Tech. programme.
• A student, under the supervision of a faculty member, shall collect literature
on an allotted project topic of his / her choice, critically review the literature,
carry out the mini-project, submit it to the department in a report form as
prescribed by the Academic Section and shall make an oral presentation
(seminar) before the departmental Project Review Committee (PRC).
• Evaluation of the mini-project shall consist of CIE and SEE and shall be done
by a Project Review Committee (PRC) consisting of the Head of the
21
Department, faculty supervisor and a senior faculty member of the
specialization / department for a total of 100 marks.
• CIE shall be carried out for 40 marks on the basis of review presentation as
per the academic calendar and evaluation format provided by DoA.
• SEE shall be carried out at the end of semester for 60 marks on the basis of
an oral presentation and submission of mini-project report after clearing the
plagiarism check.
• A student has to secure a minimum of 50 % marks to be declared successful.
• Prior to the submission of mini-project report to the PRC, its soft copy shall be
submitted to the PG Coordinator for PLAGIARISM check.
• The mini-project report shall be accepted for submission to the PRC, if the
similarity index is less than 25 %. If the similarity index is more than the
required percentage, the student shall be advised to modify the content
accordingly and re-submit the soft copy of the report after one week.
• The maximum number of re-submissions of mini-project report after
plagiarism check is limited to TWO. After this, the student shall be deemed
to secure ‘Fail’ grade in the mini-project and shall re-register for it in the next
semester.
16.6 Industry Engagement:
• There shall be a 1 credit course in II semester (I year II semester) on “Industry
Engagement”.
• Industry Engagement course shall comprise of the following:
✓ Series of lectures by eminent speakers from the Industry/Research
✓ Industrial Visits
• A student, under the supervision of a faculty member, shall compile the lecture
series and industrial visit information and submit it to the department in a
report form.
• Evaluation shall consist of CIE and SEE and shall be done by a Department
Committee consisting of the Head of the Department, faculty supervisor and a
senior faculty member of the specialization / department for a total of 100
marks.
• CIE shall be carried out for 40 marks on the basis of review presentation as
per the academic calendar and evaluation format provided by DoA.
• SEE shall be carried out at the end of semester for 60 marks on the basis of
an oral presentation and submission of report after clearing the plagiarism
check.
• A student has to secure a minimum of 50 % marks to be declared successful.
• Prior to the submission of industry engagement report to the PRC, its soft copy
shall be submitted to the PG Coordinator for PLAGIARISM check.
• The industry engagement report shall be accepted for submission to the PRC,
if the similarity index is less than 25 %. If the similarity index is more than
the required percentage, the student shall be advised to modify the content
accordingly and re-submit the soft copy of the report after one week.
• The maximum number of re-submissions of industry engagement report
after plagiarism check is limited to TWO. After this, the student shall be
deemed to secure ‘Fail’ grade in the mini-project and shall re-register for it in
the next semester.
22
16.7 Project:
• A student shall be permitted to register for the project after satisfying the
attendance requirement in all the courses, i.e., theory and practical courses.
• A Project Review Committee (PRC) shall be constituted with Head of the
Department as Chairperson, PG Coordinator, Project Supervisor and one senior
faculty member of the Department offering the M. Tech. programme.
• Minimum duration of the project work shall be 40 weeks and spread over two
semesters.
• There shall be three project reviews namely Project Review I, Project Review
II and Project Review III.
• In Project Review I, a student, in consultation with his Project Supervisor,
shall present the title, objective and plan of action of his project work to the
Project Review Committee (PRC) for approval within four weeks from the
commencement of third semester (II year I semester). A student can
initiate the project work only after obtaining the approval of the PRC.
• If a student wishes to change his supervisor or topic of the project, he can do
so with the approval of the PRC. However, the PRC shall examine whether or
not the change of topic / supervisor leads to a major change of his initial plans
of project proposal. If yes, his date of registration for the project work shall
start from the date of change of supervisor or topic, as the case may be.
• The work on the project shall be initiated at the beginning of the third semester
(II year I semester) and the duration of the project is of two semesters.
• The Project Review II in third semester (II year I semester) shall carry CIE
of 100 marks. Evaluation shall be done by the PRC for 50 marks and
project supervisor shall evaluate it for remaining 50 marks. The project
supervisor and PRC shall examine the Problem Definition, Objectives, Scope of
Work, Literature Survey in the same domain and progress of the project work.
• A student shall secure a minimum of 50% marks to be declared successful
in Project Work Review II. If he fails to obtain the minimum required marks,
he shall reappear for Project Review II as and when conducted as per the
academic calendar.
• Project Review III in fourth semester (II year II semester) shall carry CIE
of 100 marks. Evaluation shall be done by the PRC for 50 marks and the
project supervisor shall evaluate it for remaining 50 marks. The PRC shall
examine the overall progress of the project work and decide whether or not
the project is eligible for final submission.
• A student shall secure a minimum of 50% of marks to be declared
successful in Project Work Review III. If he fails to obtain the required
minimum marks, he has to reappear for Project Review III as and when
conducted as per the academic calendar.
• At the end of fourth semester (II year II semester), the Semester End
Examination (SEE) of Project i.e., project viva-voce shall be conducted and
evaluated for 100 marks by an external examiner from industry /
academia. A student shall secure a minimum of 50% marks in the SEE to
be declared as successful in the project viva-voce examination.
• A student shall submit his project progress report in two stages atleast with
a gap of three months between them.
• Project Review II and Project Review III shall be carried out in two phases
namely Phase-I i.e., regular and Phase-II i.e., supplementary as defined
in the academic calendar.
• Phase-II (supplementary) shall be conducted only for those students who could
not clear the project review in phase-I (regular).
23
• Those students who could not secure minimum marks in Project Review II
[Phase-II] shall reappear for Project Review II at the time of Project Review III
[Phase-I]. These students shall reappear for Project Review III in the next
academic year at the time of Project Review II [phase I], only after completion
of Project Review II, followed by Project Review III.
• Those students who could not secure minimum marks in Project Review III
[Phase-II] shall reappear for Project Review III in the next academic year only
at the time of Project Review II [Phase-I].
• After approval from the PRC, a soft copy of the thesis shall be submitted for
PLAGIARISM check to the Examination Branch. The thesis shall be accepted
for submission and evaluation, if the similarity index is less than 25%. If the
similarity index has more than the required percentage, the student shall be
advised to modify the thesis accordingly and re-submit the soft copy of the
thesis after one month. The plagiarism report should be included in the final
thesis. The maximum number of re-submissions of thesis after
plagiarism check is limited to TWO. After that, the candidate has to register
for the project work and work for two semesters. After three attempts, the
admission is liable to be cancelled.
• For the approval of PRC, the candidate shall submit the draft copy of thesis to
the Head of the Department and make an pre-submission seminar before the
PRC.
• A student shall be permitted to submit the Project Thesis subjected to
fulfilling the following conditions:
✓ Successful completion of all theory, practical and project related
courses including mandatory / audit courses
✓ Submission not earlier than 40 weeks from the date of approval of the
project work by the PRC.
✓ Presentation of the project work in Show and Tell activity
✓ Publication of a minimum of one research paper (covering atleast 75 % of
the project work) in peer-reviewed national / international journals /
conferences indexed in SCOPUS / Web of Science / SCI etc. OR
Publication of a Patent based on the project work. Copy of the paper /
patent to be enclosed at the end of the thesis.
✓ Similarity index is less than 25 % in the Plagiarism check. Certificate
indicating the same to be attached in the thesis.
✓ Approval given by the PRC based on successful completion of Project
Reviews.
• Three copies of the Project Thesis certified by the supervisor shall be
submitted to the Examination branch.
• The thesis shall be adjudicated by an external examiner selected by the
Principal / Chief Controller of Examinations. For this, the supervisor concerned
and Head of the Department shall submit a panel of three examiners from the
list of experts in the relevant specialization from Academia/Industry/Research
Organizations to the Principal / Chief Controller of Examinations.
• If the report of the external examiner is unsatisfactory, the candidate shall
revise and resubmit the Thesis. If the report of the examiner is unsatisfactory
again, the thesis shall be summarily rejected. Subsequent actions for such
dissertations may be considered, only on
the specific recommendations of the external examiner and / or Project Review
Committee. No further correspondence in this matter shall be entertained, if
there is no specific recommendation for resubmission.
24
• If the report of the examiner is satisfactory, the Head of the Department shall
coordinate and make arrangements for the conduct of Project Viva-Voce
examination. The Project Viva-Voce examination shall be conducted by a board
consisting of the Supervisor, Head of the Department and the external
examiner who adjudicated the Thesis. The candidate has to secure a minimum
of 50 % of marks in the Project Evaluation (Viva-Voce) examination.
• If the student fails to fulfill the requirements as specified in these regulations,
he shall reappear for the Viva-Voce examination only after three months. In
the reappeared examination also, if he fails to fulfill the requirements, he shall
not be eligible for the award of the degree, unless he is asked to revise and
resubmit his project work by the board within a specified time period (in any
case within four years from the date of commencement of his first year first
semester).
• SEE marks of project must be submitted to the Examination branch on the day
of the examination.
16.8 MOOC:
• Meeting with the global requirements, to inculcate the habit of self-learning
and in compliance with the UGC guidelines, MOOC (Massive Open Online
Courses) have been introduced in these regulations.
• The proposed MOOCs would be additional choices in all the elective group
courses subjected to their offering in the department, availability in the MOOC
platform during the respective semesters as well as according to the guidelines
specified by the Academic Section for offering of such courses at that time.
• As per the guidelines issued by the Academic Section regarding equivalency
conditions of the MOOC, concerned departments shall declare the BoS
approved list of the courses that a student can pursue through MOOCs at the
beginning of the semester.
• Students interested in pursuing MOOCs shall register the course title at their
department office before the start of the semester against the courses that are
announced by the department.
• Course content for the selected MOOCs shall be drawn from the respective
MOOCs link or shall be supplied by the department.
• Course progress shall be monitored by course coordinator designated by HoD.
• Assessment & evaluation of the courses shall be done by the respective
department designated MOOC Coordinator.
• Grade obtained through the evaluation of the selected course pursued through
MOOC shall be considered for the SGPA/CGPA calculation.
• Equivalent credits* shall be awarded upon successful completion of each MOOC
course.
• *Detailed guidelines regarding credit transfer of the courses pursued through
MOOC shall be issued time to time by the Academic Section.
16.9 Value Added Courses:
• The value-added courses / certificate courses offered through joint ventures
with various industries / organizations provide ample scope for the students as
well as faculty to keep pace with the latest technologies pertaining to their
chosen field of studies.
• A plenty of value-added programmes approved by the BoS shall be proposed
by the departments one week before the commencement of classes.
• The students are given the option to choose the course inclinations as per their
choice.
25
• Students interested in pursuing value added courses shall register for the
courses in the department office at the beginning of the semester against the
courses that are announced by the department.
• Course progress shall be monitored by the course coordinator designated by
the HoD.
• Result of value-added courses shall be declared with “Satisfactory” or “Not
Satisfactory” performance.
• Grade obtained through value added course shall not be considered for the
SGPA/CGPA calculation.
16.10 Mandatory Audit Courses:
• A student shall pursue the entire mandatory and audit courses as specified in
the course structure of the B.Tech. programme.
• These courses are among the compulsory courses and do not carry any
credits.
• Mandatory courses shall not carry any credits but, securing 40 marks out of
100, shall be necessary requirement for the student to qualify for the
award of Degree.
• Two sessional examinations shall be conducted in each semester as per the
academic calendar.
• Each sessional examination shall be evaluated for 50 marks.
• Question paper pattern for sessional examination (50 Marks) of Mandatory
Audit courses shall be as follows:
Q.1 10 M
UNIT-I
Q.2 10 M
Q.3 10 M
Sessional Examination
UNIT-II
– I (SE-I)
Q.4 10 M
UNIT-III Q.5 10 M
UNIT-III Q.1 10 M
Q.2 10 M
Sessional Examination
UNIT-IV
– II SE-II)
Q.3 10 M
Q.4 10 M
UNIT-V
Q.5 10 M
26
• Sum total of two sessional examinations shall be calculated and used as
the final sessional marks.
• Result of mandatory audit courses shall be declared with “Satisfactory” or
“Not Satisfactory” performance.
• No marks or letter grade shall be allotted.
• The students shall have four chances in total to clear a specific mandatory and
audit course.
16.11 Virtual Laboratories:
• The Virtual Laboratories are internet enabled experiments for remote operation
so as to enhance the curiosity and innovation of students and provide hands-
on sessions. The main aim of virtual labs is to enthuse the students about
performing ‘experiments’ and thereby getting them interested in their
respective disciplines in a meaningful way. It is expected that the competence
level of the engineering students shall enhance through the use of these labs.
• Advanced laboratories / experiments that are not existing in the Institute and
are required for supplementing the knowledge gained in specific course(s) may
be pursued by the students though the use of Virtual Labs.
• Departments offering M.Tech. programmes shall define the list of virtual
laboratories that a student can take up during the duration of course of study.
• The decision to pursue a virtual laboratory course by a student shall be optional
and also in addition to the mandatory requirement of pursuing practical courses
as specified in the course structure of the programme.
• The virtual laboratories / experiments that a student decides to pursue must
be communicated to the Academic Section through HoD.
17.0 RE-ADMISSION / RE-REGISTRATION OF COURSES:
17.1 Re-admission of a Discontinued Student:
• A student who has discontinued the M.Tech. program due to any reason
whatsoever may be considered for ‘re-admission’ into the same degree
program (same specialization) with the academic regulations of the batch into
which he gets re-admitted with prior approval.
17.2 Re-registration of Courses:
• A student who is detained in a course(s) due to shortage of attendance in any
semester may be permitted to re-register for the same course(s) in the same
category (core or elective group) as and when offered in the subsequent
semester(S), with the academic regulations of the batch into which he seeks
re-registration with prior approval.
• If the same course is not available then student may be allowed to re-register
in an equivalent course as suggested by the Board of Studies of that
department.
• A student shall be given one-time chance to re-register for a maximum of
two courses in a semester and attend the classes, if
✓ Internal marks secured by student in CIE are less than 50% and failed
in those courses but fulfilled the attendance requirement.
• A student must re-register for the failed course(s) within four weeks of
commencement of the classwork in next academic year.
• In the event of the student taking this chance, his CIE marks for 40 and
SEE marks for 60 obtained in the previous attempt stand cancelled.
27
18.0 CONDUCT OF SEMESTER END EXAMINATIONS AND
EVALUATION:
• Semester end examination (SEE) shall be conducted by the Controller of
Examinations (COE) by inviting Question Papers from the External Examiners.
• Question papers may be moderated for the coverage of syllabus, pattern of
questions by an examiner appointed by the CoE. The appointed examiner shall
prepare a detailed answer key and scheme of valuation and submit it to the
CoE.
• Laboratory SEE shall be conducted involving internal and external examiners
as defined in these regulations.
19.0 REVALUATION:
• Student can register for the revaluation by paying a prescribed fee.
• The Controller of Examinations (CoE) shall arrange for the revaluation and
declare the results.
• Revaluation shall not be permitted to the courses other than theory courses.
20.0 PERFORMANCE AND GRADING SYSTEM:
• Performances of students based on the percentage of marks obtained (CIE and
SEE, both taken together) in each of the courses (Theory / Practical / Technical
Seminar / Mini Project / Industry Engagement and Project Stage) in the
programme are expressed in terms of Letter Grades based on an absolute
grading system. The 10-point grading system with letter grades and their
grade points are shown in the Table 7.
Table 7 Grade and Grade Points
% of Marks Obtained in a Letter Description of Grade Points
Course Grade Grade (GP)
>= 90.00 O Outstanding 10
>= 80.00 and < 90.00 A+ Excellent 9
>= 70.00 and < 80.00 A Very Good 8
>= 60.00 and < 70.00 B+ Good 7
>= 50.00 and < 60.00 B Above Average 6
< 50.00 F Fail 0
Not Appeared in the Exam(s) Ab Absent 0
• A student who has obtained an ‘F’ grade in any course shall be deemed to have
‘failed’ and is required to reappear as a ‘supplementary student’ in the
semester end examination, as and when conducted.
• In such cases, CIE marks in those courses shall remain the same as those
obtained earlier.
• If a student has not appeared for an examination in any course, ‘Ab’ grade
shall be allocated in that course, and he is deemed to have ‘Failed’ and is
required to reappear as a ‘supplementary student’ in the semester end
28
examination, as and when conducted next.
• In this case also, the internal marks in those courses shall remain the same as
those obtained earlier.
• A letter grade does not indicate any specific percentage of marks secured by
the student, but it indicates only the range of percentage of marks.
• A student shall not be permitted to repeat any course(s) for the sake of
‘Grade Improvement’ OR ‘SGPA/CGPA Improvement’.
21.0 COMPUTATION OF SGPA AND CGPA:
➢ CALCULATION OF SEMESTER GRADE POINT AVERAGE (SGPA):
• The performance of each student at the end of each semester shall be indicated
in terms of SGPA. The SGPA shall be calculated as below:
Total earned weighted grade points in a semester
SGPA =
Total credits in a semester
∑P C ∗G
i=1 i i
SGPA=
∑P C
i=1 i
where C = Number of credits allotted to a particular course ‘i’
i
G = Grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to the
i
course ‘i’
i = 1,2,…..p represent the number of courses in a particular
semester
• SGPA is rounded off to TWO decimal places.
NOTE: SGPA is calculated and awarded to those students who pass all the
courses in a semester.
➢ CALCULATION OF CUMULATIVE GRADE POINT AVERAGE (CGPA):
The CGPA of a student for the entire programme shall be calculated as given
below:
• Assessment of the overall performance of a student shall be obtained by
calculating cumulative grade point average (CGPA), which is weighted average
of the grade points obtained in all courses in all semesters during the course
of study.
Total earned weighted grade points for the entire programme
CGPA=
Total credits for the entire programme
∑m C ∗G
j=1 j j
CGPA =
∑m C
j=1 j
where C = number of credits allotted to a particular course ‘j’
j
G = grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to that
j
course ‘j’
j = 1,2,….m represent the number of courses of the entire
programme.
• CGPA is rounded off to TWO decimal places.
• CGPA is computed from II semester (I year II semester) onwards.
29
• After registration and successful completion of I semester (I year I semester),
SGPA of I semester itself may be taken as CGPA as there are no cumulative
effects
• Grade lower than B in any course shall not be considered for CGPA calculation.
The CGPA shall be awarded only when the student acquires the required
number of credits prescribed for the programme.
➢ ILLUSTRATION OF COMPUTATION OF SGPA AND CGPA:
❖ Illustration of calculation of SGPA:
Grade
Course Course Letter Credit Point
Point
Name Credits (C) Grade (CP = C x GP)
(GP)
Course 1 3 A 8 3 x 8 = 24
Course 2 4 B+ 7 4 x 7 = 28
Course 3 3 B 6 3 x 6 = 18
Course 4 3 O 10 3 x 10 = 30
Course 5 3 C 5 3 x 5 = 15
Course 6 4 B 6 4 x 6 = 24
TOTAL TOTAL CREDIT
20 139
CREDITS POINTS
139
Thus, SGPA = = 6.95
20
❖ Illustration of calculation of CGPA upto II semester:
Course Letter Grade Credit Point
Course
Semester Credits Grade Point (CP = C x
Name
(C) Secured (GP) GP)
I Course 1 4 A 8 32
I Course 2 3 O 10 40
I Course 3 3 B 6 18
I Course 4 3 C 5 15
I Course 5 1 A+ 9 9
I Course 6 1 B+ 7 7
I Course 7 3 O 10 30
I Course 8 1 C 5 5
I Course 9 1 A 8 8
II Course 10 3 A 8 24
II Course 11 3 A+ 9 27
II Course 12 3 B 6 18
II Course 13 3 A 8 24
II Course 14 3 A+ 9 27
II Course 15 1 A 8 8
II Course 16 1 A 8 8
II Course 17 2 B 6 12
II Course 18 1 A+ 9 9
TOTAL CREDIT
TOTAL CREDITS 40 321
POINTS
30
321
Thus, CGPA = = 8.02
40
• The above illustrated process of calculation of CGPA shall be followed for each
subsequent semester until IV semester i.e., (II year II semester).
• The CGPA obtained at the end of IV semester i.e., (II year II semester) shall
be the final CGPA secured by the student for the entire M.Tech. programme.
22.0 DECLARATION OF RESULTS:
• Computation of SGPA and CGPA are done using the procedure mentioned in
20.0.
• For final percentage of marks equivalent to the computed final CGPA, the
following formula may be used.
% of Marks = (final CGPA – 0.5) x 10
23.0 PASSING STANDARDS:
• A student shall be declared successful or ‘passed’ in a semester, if he
secures a GP ≥ 6 (‘B’ grade or above) in every course in that semester
(i.e., when the student gets an SGPA  6.0 at the end of that particular
semester)
• A student shall be declared successful or ‘passed’ in the entire M.Tech.
programme, only when if he secures a CGPA  6.00 (‘B’ grade or above)
for the award of the degree as required.
• After the completion of each semester, a grade card or grade sheet shall be
issued to all the registered students of that semester.
23.1 Grade Card:
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) Course code, course title, no. of credits for each course offered in that
semester
b) Letter grade and grade point awarded in each course
c) Credits earned in each course
c) SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that
semester.
24.0 SCHEME FOR THE AWARD OF DEGREE:
24.1 Award of M.Tech. Degree:
• A student shall be declared qualified for the award of the M.Tech. degree in the
concerned branch of Engineering and Technology with the specialization
allotted at the time of admission, if he/she fulfils the following academic rules:
✓ Pursued a programme of study for not less than two academic years
and not more than four academic years from the date of
commencement of the first academic year.
✓ Registered for 68 credits and secured a minimum of 68 credits with
CGPA ≥ 6.0.
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for
the award of the degree within four academic years from the first
academic year of their admission, shall forfeit their seat in M.Tech.
31
programme.
24.2 Awarding of Class based on CGPA:
• A student who qualifies for the award of the degree as listed in item 23.1 above
shall be placed in the following classes based on their CGPA at the end of the
M.Tech. degree programme.
Table 8 CGPA and Class
CGPA Class
>= 7.75 First Class with Distinction
>= 6.75 and < 7.75 First Class
>= 6.0 and < 6.75 Second Class
25.0 CREDIT TRANSFER:
❖ Credit transfer facility through MOOC:
• Detailed guidelines regarding credit transfer of the courses pursued through
MOOC (NPTEL-SWAYAM) shall be issued time to time by the Academic Section.
26.0 WITH-HOLDING OF RESULTS:
• If a student has not paid the pending fee dues to the institute due to any reason
whatsoever or if any case of indiscipline / malpractice is pending against him,
the results of such student shall be withheld and shall not be promoted to the
next semester as a punitive action.
• The issue of the award of the provisional certificate and the M.Tech. degree is
liable to be withheld in such cases.
27.0 DISCIPLINE:
• Every student is required to observe discipline and decorum both inside and
outside the institute and not to indulge in any activity which shall tend to bring
down the honor of the institute.
• If a student exhibits indiscipline during the academic activities or indulges in
malpractice in any of the theory / practical CIE or SEE, he shall be liable for
punitive action as prescribed by the Institute from time to time.
28.0 TRANSITORY REGULATIONS:
28.1 Students detained due to shortage of attendance:
• A student who has been detained in any semester of M.Tech. I year of R19/A19
academic regulations for want of attendance, shall be permitted to rejoin the
corresponding semester of R22 academic regulations. Such a student is
required to complete the M.Tech. regular degree programme within the
stipulated period of four academic years from the date of first admission in I
year.
• R22 academic regulations shall be applicable to the student from the semester
of readmission onwards.
• He shall take up equivalent courses, as substitute courses in place of repeated
courses as decided by the Chairman of the BoS of the respective departments.
32
28.2 For readmitted students in R22 Academic Regulations:
• A student who has failed in any course(s) under any regulation has to pass
those course(s) in the same regulations.
• Minimum academic requirement of R22 academic regulation shall be applicable
to all the readmitted students.
• Credit structure as defined in the course structure of M.Tech. programmes
under R22 academic regulation shall be followed from the semester of
readmission.
• The maximum credits that a student acquires for the award of degree, shall be
the sum of the total number of credits secured in all the regulations of his study
including R22 regulations. There is NO EXEMPTION OF CREDITS in any
case.
• If a student readmitted to R22 academic regulations, has any course with 80%
of syllabus common with his previous regulations, then that particular course
in R22 academic regulations shall be substituted by another course as
suggested by the Board of Studies (BoS) of the concerned department.
• If a student readmitted to R22 academic regulations, has not studied any
courses/topics in his/her earlier regulations of study which is prerequisite for
further courses in R22 academic regulations, the department HoD concerned
shall conduct remedial classes to cover those courses/topics for the benefit of
the students.
29.0 MINIMUM INSTRUCTION PERIOD:
• The minimum instruction period for each semester shall be 16 weeks
(excluding examinations).
30.0 GENERAL:
• The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
• In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arising in the above rules and
regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
• The Chairman, Academic Council may change or amend any or all of the
academic regulations or syllabi at any time and the changes or amendments
made shall be applicable to all the students concerned with effect from the
dates as notified by the Institute.
• Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include “she”,
“her”, “hers”.
33
MALPRACTICE RULES
DISCIPLINARY ACTION FOR IMPROPER CONDUCT IN
EXAMINATIONS
Nature of Malpractices / Punishment
S.No. Improper conduct
If a student:
1. (a) Possesses or keeps accessible in Expulsion from the examination hall
examination hall, any paper, note and cancellation of the performance
book, programmable calculators, in that course only.
cell phones, pager, palm
computers or any other form of
material concerned with or related
to the course of the examination
(theory or practical) in which he is
appearing but has not made use
of (material shall include any
marks on the body of the student
which can be used as an aid in the
course of the examination)
(b) Gives assistance or guidance or Expulsion from the examination hall
receives it from any other student and cancellation of the performance
orally or by any other body in that course only of all the
language methods or students involved. In case of an
communicates through cell outsider, he shall be handed over to
phones with any student or the police and a case is registered
persons in or outside the exam against him.
hall in respect of any matter.
2. Has copied in the examination hall Expulsion from the examination hall
from any paper, book, and cancellation of the performance
programmable calculators, palm in that course and all other courses
computers or any other form of the student has already appeared
material relevant to the course of including practical examinations
the examination (theory or and project work and shall not be
practical) in which the student is permitted to appear for the
appearing. remaining examinations of the
courses of that Semester/year.
The Hall Ticket of the student is to
be cancelled and sent to the
Controller of Examinations.
3. Impersonates any other student The student who has impersonated
in connection with the shall be expelled from examination
examination. hall. The student is also debarred
and forfeits the seat. The
performance of the original student,
who has been impersonated, shall
be cancelled in all the courses of the
examination (including practicals
and project work) already appeared
and shall not be allowed to appear
34
for examinations of the remaining
courses of that semester/year. The
student is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class
work and all semester end
examinations. The continuation of
the course by the student is course
to the academic regulations in
connection with forfeiture of seat. If
the imposter is an outsider, he shall
be handed over to the police and a
case is registered against him.
4. Smuggles in the Answer book or Expulsion from the examination hall
additional sheet or takes out or and cancellation of performance in
arranges to send out the question that course and all the other
paper during the examination or courses the student has already
answer book or additional sheet, appeared including practical
during or after the examination. examinations and project work and
shall not be permitted for the
remaining examinations of the
courses of that semester/year. The
student is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class
work and all semester end
examinations. The continuation of
the course by the student is course
to the academic regulations in
connection with forfeiture of seat.
5. Uses objectionable, abusive or Cancellation of the performance in
offensive language in the answer that course.
paper or in letters to the
examiners or writes to the
examiner requesting him to award
pass marks.
6. Refuses to obey the orders of the In case of students of the college,
Controller of Examinations they shall be expelled from
/Additional Controller of examination halls and cancellation
Examinations/any officer on duty of their performance in that course
or misbehaves or creates and all other courses the student(s)
disturbance of any kind in and has (have) already appeared and
around the examination hall or shall not be permitted to appear for
organizes a walk out or instigates the remaining examinations of the
others to walk out, or threatens courses of that semester/year. The
the COE or any person on duty in students also are debarred and
or outside the examination hall of forfeit their seats. In case of
any injury to his person or to any outsiders, they shall be handed over
of his relations whether by words, to the police and a police case is
either spoken or written or by registered against them.
signs or by visible representation,
assaults the COE or any person on
duty in or outside the examination
hall or any of his relations, or
35
indulges in any other act of
misconduct or mischief which
result in damage to or destruction
of property in the examination hall
or any part of the Institute
premises or engages in any other
act which in the opinion of the
officer on duty amounts to use of
unfair means or misconduct or
has the tendency to disrupt the
orderly conduct of the
examination.
7. Leaves the exam hall taking away Expulsion from the examination hall
answer script or intentionally and cancellation of performance in
tears of the script or any part that course and all the other
thereof inside or outside the courses the student has already
examination hall. appeared including practical
examinations and project work and
shall not be permitted for the
remaining examinations of the
courses of that semester/year. The
student is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class
work and all semester end
examinations. The continuation of
the course by the student is course
to the academic regulations in
connection with forfeiture of seat.
8. Possess any lethal weapon or Expulsion from the examination hall
firearm in the examination hall. and cancellation of the performance
in that course and all other courses
the student has already appeared
including practical examinations
and project work and shall not be
permitted for the remaining
examinations of the courses of that
semester/year. The student is also
debarred and forfeits the seat.
9. If student of the college, who is Expulsion from the examination hall
not a candidate for the particular and cancellation of the performance
examination, or any person not in that course and all other courses
connected with the college the student has already appeared
indulges in any malpractice or including practical examinations
improper conduct mentioned in and project work and shall not be
clause 6 to 8. permitted for the remaining
examinations of the courses of that
semester/year. The student is also
debarred and forfeits the seat.
Person(s) who do not belong to the
College shall be handed over to
police and, a police case shall be
registered against them.
36
10. Comes in a drunken condition to Expulsion from the examination hall
the examination hall. and cancellation of the performance
in that course and all other courses
the student has already appeared
including practical examinations
and project work and shall not be
permitted for the remaining
examinations of the courses of that
semester/year.
11. Copying detected on the basis of Cancellation of the performance in
internal evidence, such as, during that course and all other courses
valuation or during special the student has appeared including
scrutiny. practical examinations and project
work of that semester/year
examinations.
12. If any malpractice is detected
which is not covered in the above
clauses 1 to 11 shall be reported
to the Principal for further action
to award suitable punishment.
Malpractices identified by squad or special invigilators:
Punishments shall be given to the students as per the above guidelines.
Malpractice identified at Spot center during valuation:
The following procedure shall be followed in the case of malpractice cases detected
during valuation, scrutiny etc. at spot center:
1) Malpractice is detected at the spot valuation.
The case is to be referred to the malpractice committee. Malpractice committee
shall meet and discuss/question the student and based on the evidence, the
committee shall recommend suitable action on the student.
2) A notice is to be served to the student(s) involved, through the Principal, to his
address and to the student(s) permanent address regarding the malpractice and
seek explanations.
3) The involvement of staff who are in-charge of conducting examinations,
invigilators, examiners valuing examination papers and preparing / keeping
records of documents related to the examinations in such acts (inclusive of
providing incorrect or misleading information) that infringe upon the course of
natural justice to one and all concerned at the examinations shall be viewed
seriously and recommend for award of appropriate punishment after thorough
enquiry.
4) Based on the explanation by the party involved and recommendations of the
committee action may be initiated.
Malpractice Prevention Committee:
i. Dean, Examinations Chairman
ii. Dean, Academics Member
iii. Controller of Examinations Member
iv. Exam Hall Invigilator Member
v. Chief Examiner of the course/course expert Member
vi. Concerned Head of the Department Member
37
