SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/VNRR19.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY HYDERABAD
(An Autonomous Institute)
ACADEMIC RULES AND REGULATIONS OF FOUR YEAR B.TECH.
REGULAR DEGREE PROGRAMME APPLICABLE FOR THE
STUDENT BATCHES ADMITTED FROM THE ACADEMIC YEAR
2019 – 2020
1.0 PREAMBLE:
Vallurupalli Nageswara Rao Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and
Technology (VNRVJIET) aims at achieving academic excellence by implementing
new initiatives in teaching-learning and evaluation processes. Based on the
directions of the University Grants Commission (UGC), New Delhi, All India Council
for Technical Education (AICTE), New Delhi and Jawaharlal Nehru Technological
University (JNTU) Hyderabad, VNRVJIET introduced the Choice Based Credit
System (CBCS) in both the under-graduate and post-graduate programmes
offered from the academic year 2015 – 2016. Keeping in view of the
standardization of the higher education system in India, VNRVJIET is continuing
the implementation of CBCS ahead.
2.0 SHORT TITLE, APPLICATION AND COMMENCEMENT:
• These regulations shall be called as the “VNRVJIET B.Tech. Choice Based
Credit System (CBCS) Academic Regulations, 2019”. In short, it shall be
referred as ‘VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations’.
• The regulations are quite comprehensive and include definitions of key terms,
semester system, credit system, grading system and other relevant details.
• The regulations detailed herein shall apply to all the regular and professional
under-graduate programmes offered by the Institute.
• These regulations shall be applicable and come into force to the student
batches admitted from the academic year 2019-2020 onwards.
• The Institute may revise, amend or change the regulations, scheme of
examinations and syllabi, from time to time, if found necessary and on
approval by the Academic Council of the Institute, keeping the
recommendations of the BoS in view.
• Any or all such amendments shall be effective from such date and to such
batches of students including those already undergoing the programme, as
may be approved through Academic Council of the Institute.
3.0 CHOICE BASED CREDIT SYSTEM:
• The Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) enables a student to obtain a degree
by accumulating the required number of credits prescribed for that degree.
Under the CBCS, the requirement for awarding a degree is prescribed in terms
of number of credits to be completed by the students. The number of credits
earned by the student reflects the knowledge or skill acquired by him / her.
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 1
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
Each course is assigned with a fixed number of credits based on the contents
to be learned. The student also has choice in selecting the courses out of those
offered by the various departments. The grade points earned for each of the
course reflects the student’s proficiency in that course.
• The CBCS provides the student flexibility in duration to complete a programme
of study. The CBCS facilitates transfer of credits earned in different
departments or institutions of higher education in India.
• The CBCS permits students to:
1. Choose electives from a wide range of elective courses offered by the
departments.
2. Undergo additional courses of interest.
3. Adopt an interdisciplinary approach in learning.
4. Make the best use of expertise of the available faculty.
4.0 ABBREVIATIONS:
Abbreviation Full Form
AAT Alternative Assessment Tool
AC Academic Council
AICTE All India Council for Technical Education
B.Tech. Bachelor of Technology
BIE Board of Intermediate Education
BT Bloom’s Taxonomy
BoS Board of Studies
C Credit
CA Class Assessment
CBCS Choice Based Credit System
CGPA Cumulative Grade Point Average
CIE Continuous Internal Evaluation
CO Course Outcomes
CoE Controller of Examinations
CP Credit Point
D Drawing
DoA Dean of Academics
GO Government Order
GP Grade Point
HoD Head of the Department
IAC Institute Academic Committee
JNTUH Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad
L Lecture
LES Lateral Entry Scheme
M.Tech. Master of Technology
MOOC Massive Open Online Course
NBA National Board of Accreditation
NPTEL National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning
OBE Outcome Based Education
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 2
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
P Practical
PG Post-Graduate
Ph.D. Doctor of Philosophy
PO Programme Outcomes
PSO Programme Specific Outcomes
SEE Semester End Examination
SGPA Semester Grade Point System
SWAYAM Study Webs of Active Learning for Young and Aspiring Minds
T Tutorial
UG Under-Graduate
UGC University Grants Commission
Vallurupalli Nageswara Rao Vignana Jyothi Institute of
VNRVJIET
Engineering & Technology
5.0 NOMENCLATURE:
S. Keywords Definition
No.
1. Academic Council: Highest academic body of the Institute and is
responsible for the maintenance of standards
of instruction, education and examination
within the Institute. Academic Council is an
authority as per the AICTE / UGC regulations
and has the right to take decisions on all
academic matters including academic
research.
2. Academic Plan: A document defining the course contents and
complete details of plan of delivery of the
course viz. Course title, Course code, Pre-
requisite, Credit structure, Team of
instructors, Course objectives, Course
outcomes, Mapping of course outcomes and
programmes outcomes, relevant syllabus,
textbook(s) and reference books, Course
session plan and delivery plan, evaluation
method, course notices and other course
related aspects.
3. Academic Year: A period that is necessary to complete
courses of study. It consists of two
consecutive (one odd + one even) semesters.
4. Admission Procedure: As prescribed by the Government of
Telangana.
5. Audit Course: A course of study which has neither
evaluation component nor a grade.
6. Autonomous Institute: An Institute designated as 'Autonomous' by
University Grants Commission (UGC), New
Delhi in concurrence with the affiliating
University i.e., Jawaharlal Nehru
Technological University, Hyderabad and
Telangana State Government.
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 3
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
7. Backlog Course: A course is considered to be a backlog course
if the student has obtained a Fail (F) grade.
8. Basic Science Courses: Courses of foundational nature in the areas
of Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Biology
etc.
9. Betterment: Betterment is a way that contributes towards
improvement of the students’ grade in any
course(s). It can be done by either (a) re-
appearing or (b) re-registering for the
course.
10. Board of Studies: An authority, as defined in UGC regulations,
constituted by the Principal for each of the
department separately. The board is
responsible for curriculum design and update
in respect of all the programmes offered by a
department.
11. Branch: A discipline or specialization of a degree
programme like Civil Engineering, Mechanical
Engineering etc.
12. Certificate Course: A course that makes a student gain hands-on
expertise and skills required for holistic
development. It is a mandatory, non-credited
course for the award of degree.
13. Choice Based Credit A system which provides choice for students
System (CBCS): to select from the prescribed courses.
14. Compulsory Course: Course required to be undertaken for the
award of the degree as per the programme.
15. Continuous Internal Summative assessments used to evaluate
Evaluation (CIE): student learning, acquired skills, and
academic attainment during a course.
16. Course: A course offered for learning in a particular
semester by the Institute. These could be
theory / laboratory / project work /
miniproject / internship etc. and may
comprise of lectures / tutorials / practicals /
assignments / examination / viva-voce etc.
All the courses need not carry the same
weightage. A course is defined through
course objectives and course outcomes.
17. Course Outcomes (CO): Statements describing essential skills that
each and every student need to acquire at
the end of a course. They can be from 3 to 5
for all the courses.
18. Course Registration: Process of enrolling into a set of courses in a
semester of the programme.
19. Credit: A unit by which the course work is measured.
It determines the number of hours of
instructions required per week. One credit is
equivalent to one lecture hour of teaching
(lecture or tutorial) or two hours of practical
/ field-work per week.
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 4
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
20. Credit Based Semester A system which prescribes the number of
System (CBSS): credits to be secured by the student for the
requirement of award of degree.
21. Credit Point: A product of grade point and number of
credits for a course.
22. Credit Transfer: The procedure of granting credit(s) to a
student for course(s) undertaken online
through MOOC.
23. Cumulative Grade Point A measure of overall cumulative performance
Average (CGPA): of a student over all semesters. It is the ratio
of total credit points secured by a student in
various courses in all semesters and the sum
of the total credits of all courses in all the
semesters. It is expressed up to two decimal
places.
24. Curriculum: Curriculum incorporates all the courses that
are offered in a specific discipline. It also
indicates the planned interaction of students
with instructional content, materials and
resources.
25. Degree: A student who fulfills all the programme
requirements is eligible to receive a degree.
26. Department: An academic entity that conducts relevant
curricular and co-curricular activities,
involving both teaching and non-teaching
staff and other resources.
27. Detention: Student who does not secure minimum
required attendance in AGGREGATE shall be
detained OR Student who does not secure
minimum credits required for promotion from
one year to the next shall be detained.
28. Dropping of Courses: A student who doesn’t want to register
certain courses should do so in writing in a
prescribed format within the time frame as
mentioned in these regulations.
29. Engineering Science Courses belonging to the basic evolutionary
Courses: aspects of engineering from Mechanical
Engineering, Electrical Engineering,
Computer Science etc. like Workshop
Practices, Engineering Graphics, Engineering
Drawing, Programming through C, Basics of
Electrical Energy for Engineers, Engineering
Mechanics, etc.
30. Evaluation: Evaluation is the process of judging the
academic work done by the student in his /
her courses. It is done through a combination
of continuous internal evaluation and
semester end examinations.
31. Grade Point: A numerical weight allotted to each letter
grade on a 10-point scale.
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 5
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
32. Grade Sheet: Based on the grades earned, a grade sheet
shall be issued to all the registered students
after every semester. The grade sheet shall
display the course details (Course code,
Course title, number of credits, grade
secured) along with SGPA of that semester
and CGPA earned till that semester.
33. Humanities & Social Courses offered in the area of humanities and
Sciences Courses: liberal arts.
34. Industrial Visit: Visit to a company / firm as per the academic
requirement.
35. Industry Oriented Mini- A credit-based course that a student has to
Project undergo during a specified semester
involving exploration in a discipline belonging
to their research interest within their
programme of study.
36. Institute: VNRVJIET
37. Internship: A period of training / work experience offered
by an industry / research organization /
academic institution for a limited period of
time as specified in these regulations.
38. Laboratory based A student-centric learning methodology
Course Projects: wherein students work as individuals or in
teams in a laboratory for design, problem-
solving, decision making, and investigative
activities.
39. Letter Grade: An index of the performance of students in a
said course. Grades are denoted by letters
like O, A+, A, B+, B, C, F, Ab.
40. Mandatory Courses: Compulsory non-credit courses that a
student need to study as prescribed in the
programme.
41. Massive Open Online Open access online courses aimed at
Courses (MOOC): providing ways to learn new skills.
42. Open Elective Courses: Courses of interdisciplinary nature offered to
all the students of various programmes
across the Institute.
43. Outcome Based An educational theory wherein each part of
Education: an educational system is based around goals
(outcomes). Each student should have
achieved the goal by the end of the
educational experience.
44. Overloading: Registering for more number of credits than
normally prescribed by the programme in a
semester.
45. Pre-requisite: A course whose knowledge is required for
registration into higher level course.
46. Professional Core Courses that are fundamental constituents of
Courses: the respective engineering discipline.
47. Professional Elective Courses those are discipline-specific.
Courses:
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 6
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
48. Programme: A set of courses offered by the department
leading to the award of degree in that
programme.
49. Programme Outcomes Statements describing the essential skill sets
(PO): that each and every student need to possess
at the time of graduation. These skill sets
based on the graduate attributes as defined
by the National Board of Accreditation (NBA)
are in the areas of employability,
entrepreneurial, social and behavioral
aspects. They are 12 in number for a specific
programme and are subjected to modification
from time to time as defined by the NBA.
50. Programme Specific Statements that describe what the graduates
Outcomes (PSO): of a specific programme should be able to do.
They can be 3 to 5 in number for a specific
programme.
51. Project: A credit-based course that a student has to
undergo, as prescribed in the programme,
which involves the student to undertake a
research or design that is carefully planned
to achieve a particular aim.
52. Re-appearing: A student can reappear only in the
supplementary semester end examination for
the external component of a course, subject
to the exam registration and the regulations
contained herein.
53. Regulations: The rules and regulations contained herein
that are common to all the B.Tech.
programmes offered by the Institute and
designated as “VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19
Regulations”
54. Re-registering: A student desiring to repeat a course is
permitted to do so, subject to the regulations
contained herein.
55. Semester: Each semester shall consist of 16 weeks of
academic work excluding examination and
evaluation.
56. Semester End An examination conducted at the end of a
Examination: course of study i.e., after the completion of
instruction in a semester.
57. Semester Grade Point A measure of performance of work done in a
Average: semester. It is ratio of total credit points
secured by a student in various courses
registered in a semester and the total course
credits taken during that semester. It shall be
expressed up to two decimal places.
58. Substitute Courses: A course that is offered in place of another
course that is already studied by the student
and is repeated in the semester of study.
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 7
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
59. Underloading: Registering for lesser number of credits than
normally prescribed by the programme in a
semester.
60. University: Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University
Hyderabad
61. Virtual Laboratories: Web enabled experiments for remote
operation so as to increase the curiosity and
innovation of students and provide hands-on
experience.
6.0 UNDER-GRADUATE DEGREE PROGRAMMES ON OFFER:
VNRVJIET offers 4-year (8 semesters) Bachelor of Technology (B. Tech.) degree
programme, under Choice Based Credit System (CBCS), with effect from the
academic year 2019 - 2020 onwards, in the branches as shown in the Table 1.
Table 1 B.Tech. programmes of study on offer
S. No. Branch
1 Automobile Engineering
2 Civil Engineering
3 Computer Science and Business Systems
4 Computer Science and Engineering
Computer Science and Engineering (Artificial Intelligence and
5
Machine Learning)*
6 Computer Science and Engineering (Cyber Security)*
7 Computer Science and Engineering (Data Science)*
9 Computer Science and Engineering (IoT)*
10 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
11 Electronics and Communication Engineering
12 Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
13 Information Technology
14 Mechanical Engineering
* Offered from the academic year 2020-2021
7.0 ELIGIBILITY FOR ADMISSION:
The eligibility criteria for admission into engineering programmes offered at
VNRVJIET shall be as prescribed by the Government of Telangana. The criteria are
given below:
• The candidate shall be an Indian National / NRI.
• The candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st December of
the academic year for which the admissions are being conducted.
• The candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or
equivalent as on the date of admission recognized by BIE, Telangana State.
• Seats in each programme in the Institute are classified into two categories i.e.,
Category – A and Category – B as per the GOs.
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 8
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
• Category – A Seats
These seats shall be filled through counseling as per the rank secured by a
candidate in the Common Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by the Government
of Telangana and as per other admission criteria laid down in the GOs.
• Category – B Seats
These seats shall be filled by the Institute as per the GOs issued by the
Government of Telangana from time to time.
• Direct Admission to Second Year: (Lateral Entry Scheme)
A candidate shall be admitted into the third semester (II year I semester) based
on the rank secured by the candidate in the Engineering Common Entrance Test
[ECET (For Diploma Holders)] by the Government of Telangana and as per other
admission criteria laid down in the GOs.
8.0 MEDIUM OF INSTRUCTION:
The medium of instruction shall be English for all the courses including their
content delivery and examinations, seminars, presentations and project
evaluation as prescribed in the programme curriculum.
9.0 B.TECH. PROGRAMME STRUCTURE:
The structure of the B.Tech. programmes on offer at VNRVJIET are based on the
Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) and Credit Based Semester System (CBSS)
as defined by the UGC and the curriculum / course structure as suggested by the
AICTE in its Model Curriculum.
Semester Scheme:
• The B.Tech. programmes offered at VNRVJIET follow semester scheme pattern.
• The duration of a B.Tech. programme shall be of 4 academic years.
• Each academic year shall have 2 semesters i.e., odd and even semesters and
shall be counted as first semester, second semester, third semester and so on
upto eighth semester.
• Each semester shall consist of 16 weeks of academic work excluding
examination and evaluation.
• Each semester is structured to provide credits totaling to 160 credits for the
entire B.Tech. programme.
• Each semester shall have ‘Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE)’ and ‘Semester
End Examination (SEE)’.
• Each student shall secure a total of 160 credits with a CGPA ≥ 5 required for
the completion of the UG programme and the award of the B.Tech. degree.
• A student after securing admission into a B.Tech. programme at VNRVJIET shall
pursue and acquire the B.Tech. degree in a minimum period of four academic
years i.e., 8 semesters and a maximum period of eight academic years i.e., 16
semesters starting from the date of commencement of I year I semester, failing
which the student shall forfeit the seat in B.Tech. programme.
10.0 DURATION OF THE ACADEMIC PROGRAMMES:
• Under CBCS, programme duration shall be defined by the period in which a
student earns the prescribed credits for the award of B.Tech. degree.
• Hence, it is possible for an outstanding student to qualify for the award of
degree in a shorter time than that of the duration specified for the concerned
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 9
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
programme. However, the B.Tech. degree shall be issued at the end of normal
duration of the programme i.e., four years.
❖ Normal Duration:
• The duration of the B.Tech. degree programme shall be four years.
• The duration of the B.Tech. degree programme for students admitted under
lateral entry scheme (LES) shall be three years.
❖ Maximum Duration:
• The maximum period in which a student can complete a full time B.Tech.
degree programme shall be twice the normal duration of the programme, i.e.,
eight years (16 semesters) for B.Tech. degree and six years (12 semesters)
for students admitted under lateral entry scheme (LES) i.e., (For Diploma
Holders) respectively.
• The maximum period for a programme shall also be dictated by the fact that a
student has to demonstrate the prescribed minimum academic performance by
registering for the prescribed minimum number of credits in every semester,
for continuing in the programme. This period can be equal to or lesser than the
maximum period indicated as indicated above.
11.0 COURSES AND CREDIT STRUCTURE:
• Every course in the B.Tech. programme of study has a Lecture-Tutorial-
Practical (L-T-P) component attached to it. Based upon the L-T-P structure, the
credits are allotted to a course using the criteria as shown in the Table 2.
Table 2 Contact hour and credit structure
Contact Hours
Type of Course Component Credits (C)
/ Week
Lecture (L) 1 1
Theory
Tutorial (T) 1 1
Laboratory Practical (P) 2 1
Drawing / Design Drawing / Design (D) 2 1
• Every course of the B.Tech. programme shall be offered by a specific section /
department. The unique codes of the section / department offering the courses
are given in the Table 3.
Table 3 Course offering section / department
Course Offering Section / Department Code
Physics PH
Chemistry CH
English EN
Mathematics MT
Management MG
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 10
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
Humanities & Social Sciences HS
Civil Engineering CE
Electrical & Electronics Engineering EE
Mechanical Engineering ME
Electronics & Communication Engineering EC
Computer Science & Engineering CS
Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering EI
Information Technology IT
Automobile Engineering AE
Computer Science & Business Systems CB
❖ Structure:
• Every B.Tech. programme of study shall be designed to have theory and
laboratory courses. In addition, a student shall carry out internship, industry
oriented mini-project, project, design sensitization, design thinking and other
courses as prescribed in the curriculum of the programmes.
• Every course offered under a B.Tech. programme shall be placed in one of the
course categories with minimum credits as listed in the Table 4.
• The course group / category along with their broad classification and
description are listed in the Table 5.
Table 4 Category of Courses, their Codes and Distribution of Credits
Range Credit
Type of Courses Course Category Code of Composition
Credits (%)
Engineering
ES 16-25 10-16
Science
Basic Science BS 18-22 11-14
Foundation
Humanities & Social
Compulsory
Science Incl. HS 8-11 5-6.9
Courses
Management
Core Professional Core PC 60-68 38-43
Project Project PW 16 10
Professional
PE 18 11
Elective
Elective Courses
Open Elective OE 12 7.5
Audit AU --
Non-
Mandatory Courses
Credit
Mandatory MN --
Total 160
MOOC Online OL -- --
--
Virtual Laboratories Online VL --
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 11
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
Table 5 Description of Courses
Broad Course Course Group /
Description of Courses
Classification Category
Includes mathematics, physics, chemistry
Basic Sciences
and biology courses
Engineering
Includes fundamental engineering courses
Sciences
Foundation Humanities and
Social Sciences Includes courses related to humanities,
including social sciences and management
Management
Includes core courses related to the parent
Professional
discipline / department / branch of
Core
engineering
Core Project Work B.Tech. project stage-I and stage-II
Internship / Industry oriented mini-project /
Mini-project
Design sensitization / Design thinking
Includes elective courses related to the
Professional
parent discipline / department / branch of
Electives
engineering
Elective courses which include inter –
Elective
disciplinary courses or courses in an area
Open Electives
outside the parent discipline / department /
branch of engineering
Mandatory -
Mandatory non-credit courses
Audit -
12.0 REGISTRATION / DROPPING/ OFFERING OF COURSE(S):
❖ Course Registration:
• All the students must compulsorily register for course work at the beginning of
each semester as per the schedule mentioned in the Academic Calendar.
• It is essential for the students to register for all the prescribed courses in time.
• The registration shall be organized by the department under the supervision of
the Head of the Department.
• Every course may have one or more of its preceding course(s) as
prerequisite(s).
• A ‘faculty mentor’ shall be assigned to a group of 20 students, who shall advise
student about the under-graduate programme, its course structure and
curriculum, choice / option for course / courses, based on their competence,
progress, pre-requisites if any and interest.
• The academic section of the college shall invite ‘registration forms’ from
students before the beginning of the semester through ‘on-line registration’,
ensuring ‘date and time stamping’.
• The on-line registration requests for any ‘current semester’ shall be completed
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 12
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
before the commencement of SEEs (Semester End Examinations) of the
‘preceding semester’.
• A student shall register courses online with the approval of faculty mentor. A
copy of it shall be retained by the student and other copies be submitted online
to the concerned HoD, faculty mentor and Dean of Academics.
• A student may be permitted to register for the courses of his / her choice in a
semester with credits as prescribed in the course structure of the concerned
B.Tech. programme with a deviation of ± 22% credits per semester for defining
minimum and maximum credits, based on the progress and SGPA / CGPA, and
completion of the ‘pre-requisites’ as indicated for various courses, in the course
structure of the programmes and syllabus contents.
• Choice for ‘additional courses’ to reach the maximum permissible limit of
+ 22% credits as specified in the course structure of the concerned
programme, must be clearly indicated, which needs the specific approval and
signature of the faculty mentor and HoD.
• Additional courses shall be offered only upon meeting the prerequisites, if any,
as mentioned in the programme curriculum.
• Course options exercised through ‘on-line registration’ shall be FINAL and
cannot be changed or inter-changed; further, alternate choices also shall not
be considered.
• However, if the course that has already been listed for registration by the Head
of the Department in a semester could not be offered due to any unforeseen
or unexpected reasons, then the student shall be allowed to have alternate
choice either for a new course (subject to offering of such a course), or for
another existing course (subject to the availability of seats). Such alternate
arrangements shall be made by the Head of the Department, with due
notification and time-frame schedule, within the first week after the
commencement of class-work for that semester.
• IN ABSENTIA registration shall not be permitted under any circumstance.
• At the time of registration, students should have cleared all the dues of
Institute and Hostel (if applicable) in the previous semesters, paid the
prescribed fees for the current semester and not been debarred from Institute
for a specified period on disciplinary or any other ground.
❖ Open Elective Courses:
• The students have to choose one open elective course (OE-I) in fifth semester,
one (OE-II) in sixth semester, one (OE-III) in seventh semester and one (OE-
IV) in eighth semester from the list of open electives as prescribed in the course
structure of the programme.
• However, the student cannot opt for an open elective course offered by their
own (parent) department, if it is already listed under any category of the
courses offered by parent department in any semester.
• Courses that are already studied by a student cannot be pursued
again/repeated even if offered.
❖ Professional Elective Courses:
• Students have to register for a total of 06 professional elective courses (PE-I
to PE-VI) from the list of professional elective courses as prescribed in the
course structure of the programme.
• Compulsory core courses can be chosen by the students of the respective
disciplines only. However, the students of a particular discipline can register
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 13
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
for discipline / interdisciplinary courses of other disciplines provided they have
met the pre-requisite or when the pre-requisite is waived by Dean of
Academics. Courses that are already studied by a student cannot be pursued
again/repeated even if offered.
❖ Dropping of Courses:
• Dropping of one or more courses may be permitted, only after obtaining prior
approval from the faculty mentor (subject to retaining of minimum credits as
prescribed in these regulations), ‘within a period of 15 days’ from the beginning
of the current semester for maintaining studentship.
• The dropped courses are not recorded in the Grade Card.
• Student must complete the dropped course by registering them as and when
offered in the next semester in order to earn the required credits. This is in
addition to the minimum number of credits that are required to continue
studentship in a semester. However, the total credits registered in a semester
should not exceed the maximum number of credits permitted to register in that
semester.
❖ Courses to be Offered:
• A typical section (or class) strength for each semester shall be 60.
• A course may be offered to the students, only if a minimum of 20 students
(1/3 of the section strength) opt for it. The maximum strength of a section is
limited to 80 (60 + 1/3 of the section strength).
• More than one faculty member may offer the same course in any semester.
• Laboratory / practical may be included with the corresponding theory course
in the same semester.
• However, in case of elective courses, selection / allotment of courses, based
on the choice for students, shall be based on – ‘first come first serve’ basis in
the on-line registration mode.
• If more entries for registration of a course are received, then the HoD
concerned shall decide, whether or not to offer such a course for two (or
multiple) sections keeping in view the resources available in the department
offering the course.
13.0 ATTENDANCE REQUIREMENTS AND DETENTION POLICY:
• A student shall maintain a minimum required attendance of 75% in
AGGREGATE.
• Minimum required attendance of 75% shall be maintained in all the mandatory
courses offered like Environmental Science, Constitution of India, Intellectual
Property Rights, Gender Sensitization lab etc.
• Two periods of attendance for each theory course shall be considered, if a
student appears for the sessional examination of that course.
• Shortage of attendance up to 10% i.e., attendance between 65% to 75% in
aggregate, may be condoned by the Institute Academic Committee based on
the rules prescribed by the Academic Council of the Institute from time to time.
• Shortage of attendance below 65 % shall in no case be condoned.
• A stipulated fee, as fixed by the Institute, shall be payable towards condonation
of shortage of attendance.
• Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned OR who have not paid
the stipulated fee OR who have not cleared any other fee dues to the Institute
in any semester are not eligible to write the Semester End Examination (SEE).
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 14
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
• Students, who do not meet the minimum required attendance in a semester,
shall be detained in that semester and their registration for that semester shall
stand cancelled. They shall not be promoted to the next semester.
• Students detained in a semester shall seek re-admission into that semester as
and when offered again.
• Academic regulations applicable to the semester in which re-admission is
sought shall be applicable to the re-admitted student.
• In case if there are any professional electives and/or open electives, the same
may also be re-registered if offered. However, if those electives are not offered
in the later semesters, then alternate electives may be chosen from the same
set of elective courses offered under that category.
• Any student against whom any disciplinary action is pending shall not be
permitted to attend semester end examination (SEE) in that semester.
• A student fulfilling the attendance requirement in the present semester shall
not be eligible for re-admission into the same class.
14.0 MINIMUM ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS:
• In addition to the attendance requirements mentioned in 13.0 of these
regulations for the award of B.Tech. degree, a student must satisfy the
minimum academic requirements as given below:
• A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic
requirements and earn the credits for each theory, practical, design and
drawing course in B.Tech. programme, if he secures
✓ A minimum of 35% marks for each course in the semester end examination
(SEE), and
✓ A minimum of 40% marks for each course considering both CIE and SEE
taken together.
• A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic
requirements and earn the credits allotted to internship, industry oriented
mini-project, project, design sensitization and design thinking courses, if he
secures
✓ A minimum of 40% of total marks for internship, industry oriented mini-
project, project, design sensitization, design thinking courses
• A student shall be treated as failed, if he
✓ does not submit a report on internship, industry oriented mini-project,
project, design sensitization, design thinking courses, or
✓ does not make a presentation of the same before the evaluation committee
as per the schedule, or
✓ secures less than 40% marks in overall evaluation.
✓ In case of a student not meeting any of the above points, student may
re-appear once for each of the evaluation of internship, industry
oriented mini-project, project, design sensitization, design thinking
courses, as scheduled by the evaluation committee; if the student fails
in such ‘one re-appearance’ evaluation also, student has to re-appear
for the same in the next subsequent semester, as and when it is
scheduled.
• A student shall register for all the courses covering 160 credits as specified and
listed in the course structure of the B.Tech. programme, fulfills all the
attendance and academic requirements for 160 credits, ‘earn all 160 credits’
by securing SGPA ≥5.0 (in each semester) and CGPA (at the end of each
successive semester) ≥5.0 to successfully complete the under-graduate
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 15
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
programme.
• If a student fails to secure a pass grade in a particular course, it is mandatory
that he shall register and reappear for the examination in that course during
the next semester when SEE is conducted in that course. It is mandatory that
he should continue to register and reappear for the examination till he secures
a pass grade.
• A student eligible to appear in SEE of any course, but remains absent from it
or gets failed (failing to secure ‘C’ grade or above) may reappear for that course
in the supplementary SEE as and when conducted. In such cases, CIE assessed
earlier for that course shall be carried over, and added to the marks to be
obtained in the supplementary SEE examination for evaluating the
performance in that course.
• A student detained in a semester due to shortage of attendance, may be re-
admitted into the same semester in the next academic year for fulfillment of
the academic requirements.
• Academic regulations applicable to the semester in which re-admission is
sought shall be applicable to the re-admitted student. However, no grade
allotments or SGPA/ CGPA calculations shall be done for the entire semester in
which the student has been detained.
• A student detained due to lack of credits, shall be promoted to the next year
only after acquiring the required academic credits. Academic regulations
applicable to the semester in which promotion is sought shall be applicable to
the re-admitted student.
• A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 160
credits and earn all 160 credits for the award of B.Tech. degree.
• The student shall be qualified in two certificate courses of 40 hours duration
each during his course of study. Out of the two certificate courses, atleast one
certificate course shall be pursued through MOOCs platform like SWAYAM-
NPTEL online courses, Coursera online courses, BEC certification courses etc.
• Students who fail to earn atleast 160 credits as indicated in the course
structure within eight academic years counting from the year of their admission
shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech. programme and their admission stands
cancelled.
15.0 PROMOTION RULES:
• Apart from the minimum required attendance conditions as specified in 13.0 of
these regulations, the credit conditions to be fulfilled by a student for getting
promoted from the current semester to the next semester are given in the
Table 6.
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 16
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
Table 6 Promotion Rules
S. No. Promotion Conditions to be fulfilled
1 First semester (I year I i. Regular course of study of first
semester) to second semester (I year I semester)
semester (I year II
semester)
2 Second semester (I year i. R e g u l a r c o u rse of study of second
II semester) to third semester (I year II semester).
semester (II year I ii. Must have secured atleast 50 % of the
semester) total credits upto second semester (I
year II semester) i.e., 20 credits
out of 40 credits of the respective
programme from all the relevant
regular and supplementary
examinations, whether the student
takes those examinations or not.
3. Third semester (II year I i. Regular course of study of third
semester) to fourth semester semester (II year I semester).
(II year I semester)
4 Fourth semester (II year II i. Regular course of study of fourth
semester) to fifth semester s e m e s t e r (II year II semester).
(III year I semester) ii. Must have secured atleast 60% of
the total credits upto fourth semester
(II year II semester) i.e., 48 credits
out of 80 credits of the respective
programme from all the relevant
regular and supplementary
examinations, whether the student
takes those examinations or not.
5 Fifth semester (III year I i. Regular course of study of fifth
semester) to sixth semester semester (III year I semester).
(III year II semester)
6 Sixth semester (III year i . R e g u l a r c o u rse of study of sixth
II semester) to seventh semester (III year II semester).
semester (IV year I ii. Must have secured atleast 60% of the
semester) total credits upto sixth semester (III
year II semester) i.e., 73 credits
out of 122 credits of the respective
programme from all the relevant
regular and supplementary
examinations, whether the student
takes those examinations or not.
7 Seventh semester (IV year R e g u l a r c o u r s e of study of seventh
I semester) to eighth semester (IV year I semester)
semester (IV year II
semester)
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 17
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
16.0 DISTRIBUTION OF MARKS AND EVALUATION METHODOLOGY:
• The performance of a student in each semester shall be evaluated course wise
with a maximum of 100 marks for theory and 100 marks for practical courses.
In addition, design sensitization, design thinking, internship, industry oriented
mini-project, project stage-I and project stage-II courses shall be evaluated
for 100 marks each.
16.1 Theory Courses:
• The syllabus for the theory courses shall be divided into SIX units and each
unit carries equal weightage in terms of marks distribution.
• For theory courses, the distribution of marks shall be 40 marks for
Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE) and 60 marks for the Semester
End Examination (SEE).
❖ Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE - 40 M):
• Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE) shall consist of sessional examination (SE
- 30 M) and Class Assessment (CA - 10 M).
➢ Sessional Examination (SE - 30 M):
• For theory courses, two sessional examinations shall be conducted in each
semester as per the academic calendar. Each sessional examination shall be
evaluated for 30 marks.
• Question paper pattern for sessional examination (30 Marks) shall be as
follows:
PART-A: 3 X 2 M = 6 M
a. There shall be one question from each unit.
b. All questions are compulsory.
PART-B: 3 X 8 M = 24 M
a. There shall be one question from each unit with internal choice i.e., ‘either’
‘or’ choice.
b. The student shall answer one question from each unit.
c. There could be a maximum of two sub divisions in a question i.e., (a) and/or
(b).
• Average of two SEs shall be calculated and used as the final sessional marks
for each course.
➢ Class Assessment (CA - 10 M):
• Two class assessments consisting of any one of the alternative assessment
tools (AAT) like online quiz / assignment / objective exam / course project /
case study etc. shall be conducted covering the syllabus that is completed at
the time of conducting the CA and evaluated for 10 marks each.
• The first and second CAs shall be conducted during the instruction days as
mentioned in the Academic Calendar.
• Average of two CAs shall be calculated and used as the final class assessment
marks.
• The valuation and verification of answer scripts of CIE shall be completed within
a week after the conduct of the examination.
❖ Semester End Examination (SEE - 60 M):
• The SEE shall be conducted at the end of semester for a total of 60 marks of 3
hours duration.
• The syllabus for the theory courses shall be divided into SIX units and each
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 18
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
unit carries equal weightage in terms of marks distribution.
• Question paper pattern for SEE (60 Marks) shall be as follows:
PART-A: 6 X 2 M = 12 M
a. There shall be one question from each unit.
b. All questions are compulsory.
PART-B: 6 X 8 M = 48 M
a. There shall be one question from each unit with internal choice i.e., ‘either’
‘or’ choice.
b. The student shall answer one question from each UNIT.
c. There could be a maximum of two sub divisions in a question i.e., (a) and/or
(b).
16.2 Practical Courses:
• For practical courses, there shall be a continuous internal evaluation (CIE)
during the semester for 40 marks and 60 marks for semester end examination
(SEE). Out of the 40 marks allocated to CIE, 10 marks shall be for day-to-day
work in the laboratory, 10 marks for the practical examination to be conducted
at the end of semester, 10 marks for team course project and 10 marks for
laboratory record.
• Laboratory SEE shall be conducted at the end of semester for a total of 60
marks of 3 hours duration. Out of the 60 marks allocated to SEE, 15 marks
shall be for initial procedures & diagrams, 20 marks for conduct of experiment
& collection of data, 10 marks for analysis of data / results / graphs etc. and
15 marks for viva-voce / course project.
• SEE shall be conducted by two examiners, one internal and other external
concerned with the subject area from the same / other department / Industry.
NOTE:
• Any student who shall remain absent for any of the CIE, for any reason what
so ever, shall be deemed to have secured ‘zero’ marks in the examination and
no makeup examination shall be conducted.
16.3 Supplementary Semester End Examinations:
• Supplementary examinations shall be conducted along with regular semester
end examinations (SEE).
• During SEE of even semester, supplementary examinations of odd semester
shall be conducted and during SEE of odd semester, supplementary
examinations of even semester shall be conducted.
16.4 Drawing and / or Design Courses:
• For drawing and / or design courses, (such as Engineering Drawing,
Engineering Graphics, Geometric Drawing etc.) there shall be continuous
internal evaluation (CIE) for 40 marks and 60 marks for semester end
examination (SEE).
• Out of the 40 marks allocated to CIE, 10 marks shall be for day-to-day drawing
/ design activity, 20 marks for the sessional examination and 10 marks for
team course project.
• Two sessional examinations shall be conducted in each semester as per the
academic calendar. Each sessional examination shall be evaluated for 20
marks.
• Average of two sessional examinations shall be calculated and used as the final
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 19
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
sessional marks.
• SEE shall be conducted at the end of semester for a total of 60 marks of 3
hours duration. The syllabus for the drawing courses is divided into SIX units
and each unit carries equal weightage in terms of marks distribution.
• Question paper pattern for semester end examination (60 Marks) is as follows.
6 X 10 M = 60 M
a. There shall be 01 question from each unit with internal choice i.e., ‘either’
‘or’ choice.
b. The student shall answer one question from each UNIT.
c. There could be a maximum of two sub-divisions in a question i.e., (a) and/or
(b).
16.5 Design Sensitization and Design Thinking Courses:
• A student shall take up 01 credit ‘Design Sensitization’ course as prescribed in
the course structure of the concerned B.Tech. programme.
• A student shall understand the day-to-day life domestic applications and design
small objects/applications based on an idea conceived as part of this course
content.
• ‘Design Sensitization’ course shall be evaluated for 100 marks.
• CIE shall be evaluated for 40 marks by a committee consisting of Head of the
Department, course coordinator/teacher and senior faculty member of the
department.
• CIE shall be made on the basis of two seminars conducted and as per the
evaluation format provided by the DoA.
• SEE shall be evaluated for 60 marks by a committee consisting of Head of the
Department, course coordinator/teacher and an external expert from industry.
• As part of the evaluation, a student shall submit a detailed report regarding
the design idea and its conception into a prototype/simulation model etc.
• A student shall take up 02 credit ‘Design Thinking’ course leading to project as
prescribed in the course structure of the concerned B.Tech. programme.
• A student shall demonstrate design and development of prototype of
engineering applications based on the idea conceived as part of the course
content.
• ‘Design Thinking’ course leading to independent project shall be evaluated
based on capstone project for 100 marks.
• Evaluation of the course shall consist of both CIE and SIE.
• CIE shall be evaluated for 40 marks by a committee consisting of Head of the
Department, course coordinator/teacher and senior faculty member of the
department.
• CIE shall be made on the basis of two seminars conducted and as per the
evaluation format provided by the DoA.
• SEE shall be evaluated for 60 marks by a committee consisting of Head of the
Department, course coordinator/teacher and an external expert from industry.
• As part of the evaluation, a student shall submit a detailed report regarding
the design idea and its conception into a prototype/simulation model etc.
16.6 Internship:
• A student shall take up 01 credit summer internship in an industry/research
organization/academic institution during the summer vacation after fourth
semester (II year II semester) of the B.Tech. programme.
• Internship shall be carried out for a minimum period of 02 weeks and maximum
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 20
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
of 04 weeks.
• Internship shall be evaluated for 100 marks in the fifth semester (III year I
semester). There shall be no CIE for internship.
• Evaluation of the Internship shall be done by a committee consisting of the
Head of the Department, faculty supervisor and a senior faculty member of the
department.
• A student shall submit a detailed report regarding the internship and present
it before the committee for evaluation.
16.7 Industry Oriented Mini-Project:
• A student shall undergo an industry oriented mini-project, in collaboration with
an industry of their specialization, during the summer vacation after sixth
semester (III year II semester) of the B.Tech. programme.
• Industry oriented mini-project shall be carried out for a minimum period of 04
weeks and maximum of 06 weeks.
• Evaluation of the mini-project shall be done by a committee consisting of the
Head of the Department, faculty supervisor and a senior faculty member of the
department.
• The industry oriented mini-project shall be submitted in a report form and
presented before a committee, which shall evaluate it for 100 marks. There
shall be no CIE for industry oriented mini-project.
• However, attending the shadow engineering programme or any such other
programme, in lieu thereof, is a pre-requisite for evaluating industry oriented
mini-project.
16.8 Project:
• A student shall initiate major project in seventh semester (IV year I semester)
and continue it in the eighth semester (IV year II semester).
• Project shall be carried out in two stages i.e. stage-I in the seventh semester
and stage-II in the eighth semester.
• Project shall be evaluated for a total of 200 marks. Out of which, project stage-
I shall be evaluated for 100 marks in seventh semester and project stage-II
for 100 marks in eighth semester.
• Evaluation of project stage-I and project stage-II shall consist of both CIE and
SEE in each semester.
• CIE shall be carried out for 40 marks both in stage-I and stage-II.
• CIE shall be done by a committee consisting of Head of the Department, project
supervisor and senior faculty member of the Department.
• CIE shall be done on the basis of two seminars conducted in each semester as
per the academic calendar and as per the evaluation format provided by the
DoA.
• SEE shall be carried out for 60 marks in both stage-I and stage-II.
• SEE in stage-I shall be conducted by a committee consisting of Head of the
Department, the project supervisor and one senior faculty of the programme.
• SEE in stage-II (project viva-voce) shall be conducted by a committee
consisting of an external examiner, Head of the Department, the project
supervisor and one senior faculty of the programme.
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 21
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
16.9 MOOC:
• Meeting with the global requirements, to inculcate the habit of self-learning
and in compliance with the UGC guidelines, MOOC (Massive Open Online
Courses) have been introduced in these regulations.
• The proposed MOOCs would be additional choices in all the elective group
courses subjected to their offering in the department, availability in the MOOC
platform during the respective semesters as well as according to the guidelines
specified by the Academic Section for offering of such courses at that time.
• As per the guidelines issued by the Academic Section regarding equivalency
conditions of the MOOC, concerned departments shall declare the BoS
approved list of the courses that a student can pursue through MOOCs at the
beginning of the semester.
• Students interested in pursuing MOOCs shall register the course title at their
department office before the start of the semester against the courses that are
announced by the department.
• Course content for the selected MOOCs shall be drawn from the respective
MOOCs link or shall be supplied by the department.
• Course progress shall be monitored by the course coordinator designated by
the HoD.
• Assessment & evaluation of the courses shall be done by the respective
department designated MOOC Coordinator.
• Grade obtained through the evaluation of the selected course pursued through
MOOC shall be considered for the SGPA/CGPA calculation.
• Equivalent credits* shall be awarded upon successful completion of each MOOC
course.
• *Detailed guidelines regarding credit transfer of the courses pursued through
MOOC shall be issued time to time by the Academic Section.
16.10 Value Added Courses:
• The value-added courses / certificate courses offered through joint ventures
with various industries / organizations provide ample scope for the students as
well as faculty to keep pace with the latest technologies pertaining to their
chosen field of studies.
• A plenty of value added programmes approved by the BoS shall be proposed
by the departments one week before the commencement of classes.
• The students are given the option to choose the course inclinations as per their
choice.
• Students interested in pursuing value added courses shall register for the
courses in the department office at the beginning of the semester against the
courses that are announced by the department.
• Course progress shall be monitored by the course coordinator designated by
the HoD.
• Result of value-added courses shall be declared with “Satisfactory” or “Not
Satisfactory” performance.
• Grade obtained through value added course shall not be considered for the
SGPA/CGPA calculation.
16.11 Mandatory and Audit Courses:
• A student shall pursue the entire mandatory and audit courses as specified in
the course structure of the B.Tech. programme.
• These courses are among the compulsory courses and do not carry any credits.
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 22
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
• The students shall have four chances in total to clear a specific mandatory and
audit course.
• Mandatory courses shall not carry any credits but, securing 40 marks out of
100, shall be necessary requirement for the student to qualify for the award of
Degree.
• Result of mandatory and audit courses shall be declared with “Satisfactory” or
“Not Satisfactory” performance.
• No marks or letter grade shall be allotted.
16.12 Virtual Laboratories:
• The Virtual Laboratories are internet enabled experiments for remote operation
so as to enhance the curiosity and innovation of students and provide hands-
on sessions. The main aim of virtual labs is to enthuse the students about
performing ‘experiments’ and thereby getting them interested in their
respective disciplines in a meaningful way. It is expected that the competence
level of the engineering students will enhance through the use of these labs.
• Advanced laboratories / experiments that are not existing in the Institute and
are required for supplementing the knowledge gained in specific course(s) may
be pursued by the students though the use of Virtual Labs.
• Departments offering B.Tech. programmes shall define the list of virtual
laboratories that a student can take up during the duration of course of study.
• The decision to pursue a virtual laboratory course by a student shall be optional
and also in addition to the mandatory requirement of pursuing practical courses
as specified in the course structure of the programme.
• The virtual laboratories / experiments that a student decides to pursue must
be communicated to the Academic Section through HoD.
17.0 CONDUCT OF SEMESTER END EXAMINATIONS AND EVALUATION:
• Semester end examination (SEE) shall be conducted by the Controller of
Examinations (COE) by inviting Question Papers from the External Examiners.
• Question papers may be moderated for the coverage of syllabus, pattern of
questions by an examiner appointed by the CoE. The appointed examiner shall
prepare a detailed answer key and scheme of valuation and submit it to the
CoE.
• Laboratory SEE shall be conducted involving internal and external examiners
as defined in these regulations.
18.0 SCHEME FOR THE AWARD OF DEGREE:
❖ Award of B.Tech. Degree:
• A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the B.Tech. degree if
he/she fulfils the following academic regulations:
• Pursued a programme of study for not less than four academic years and not
more than eight academic years.
• Registered for 160 credits and secured a minimum of 160 credits.
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award
of the degree within eight academic years from the year of their admission,
shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech. programme.
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 23
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
❖ Award of B.Tech. Honors Degree:
• A student shall be awarded B.Tech. degree with Honors, if he secures
additional 20 credits (over and above 160 credits for the regular B.Tech.
degree) in III year and IV year only with atleast 7.5 CGPA for Honors and
acquiring 160 credits successfully with atleast 7.5 CGPA for regular
B.Tech. and passing all subjects in first attempt.
Ex: B.Tech. (Honors) - CSE
• Weekly instruction hours, internal & external evaluation of theory, laboratory
and mini project courses and award of grades of B.Tech. Honors degree are
the same as that of regular 4 year B.Tech. degree as mentioned in these
regulations.
• No transfer of credits from courses of Honors programme to regular
B.Tech. degree & vice versa.
• Eligibility Conditions:
• Students pursuing V semester (III year I semester) who have passed all
courses in first attempt in all the semesters with 7.5 or more CGPA till
the results announced.
• If more than 30% of the students in a branch fulfil the eligibility criteria (as
stated above), the number of eligible students shall be limited to 30% based
on the CGPA criteria till III semester (II year I semester).
• If a student fails in any registered course of either B.Tech. degree or Honors
degree in any semester of four years program, then the student shall not be
eligible for obtaining Honors degree and shall be eligible for only B.Tech.
degree.
• Prior approval of faculty mentor / advisor and Head of the Department for the
enrolment into Honors program, before commencement of V semester (III year
I semester) is mandatory.
• Courses opted must be from the prescribed list as given in the Honors course
structure and also not studied/registered in the regular B.Tech. degree.
• Student opting for Honors is not eligible to choose a Minor degree and
vice-versa.
• Additional 20 credits secured for the Honors shall not be considered for CGPA
calculation of B.Tech. degree.
❖ Award of B.Tech. Minor Degree:
• A student shall be awarded B.Tech. Minor degree in a specified
programme if he secures additional 18 credits (over and above 160 credits
for the regular B.Tech. Degree) during III year and IV year only.
Ex: B.Tech. in Mechanical Engineering with Minor in Data Science
• If a student is unable to secure additional 18 credits in a specified duration
(twice the duration of the course), then the student shall not be awarded Minor
degree. However, if the student earns all the required 160 credits of B.Tech.,
then student shall be awarded only B.Tech. degree in the concerned branch.
• Weekly instruction hours, internal & external evaluation of theory, laboratory
and mini project courses and award of grades of B.Tech. Minor degree are the
same as that of regular 4 year B.Tech. degree as mentioned in these
regulations.
• No transfer of credits from courses of minor programme to regular
B.Tech. degree & vice versa.
• Student can choose only one minor programme along with his/her basic
engineering degree.
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 24
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
• Student opting for minor programme shall not be eligible to choose
honors degree and vice-versa.
• Eligibility conditions:
• Students shall not have active backlogs till III semester (II year I
semester) while entering into V semester (III year I semester).
• If more than 50% of the students in a branch fulfil the eligibility criteria (as
stated above), the number of eligible students shall be limited to 50% based
on the CGPA criteria.
• Prior approval of faculty mentor / advisor and Head of the Department for the
enrolment into minor programme before commencement of V semester (III
year I semester) is mandatory.
• Courses opted must be from the prescribed list as given in the minor degree
course structure and also not studied/registered in the regular B.Tech.
degree.
• All these 18 credits need to be completed in III year and IV year only.
Detailed instructions shall be issued by the Academic Section before
commencement of V semester.
19.0 PERFORMANCE AND GRADING SYSTEM:
• Performances of students in each of the courses in the programme are
expressed in terms of Letter Grades based on an absolute grading system. The
10-point grading system with letter grades and their grade points are shown
in the Table 7.
Table 7 Grade and Grade Points
Description of Grade Points
Marks Obtained Letter Grade
Grade (GP)
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A+ Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 A Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 B+ Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 B Average 6.00
>=40 and <49.99 C Pass 5.00
<40 F Fail --
Not Appeared in the
Ab Absent --
Exam(s)
• A student is eligible for the award of the B.Tech. degree with the class as
mentioned in the Table 8.
Table 8 CGPA and Class
CGPA Class
>= 7.5 First Class with Distinction
>=6.5 and <7.5 First Class
>=5.5 and <6.5 Second Class
>=5.0 and <5.5 Pass Class
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 25
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
• For mandatory and audit courses (non-credit), student shall be awarded
‘Satisfactory’ or “Not satisfactory” without any credit. This shall not be counted
for the computation of SGPA/CGPA.
20.0 COMPUTATION OF SGPA AND CGPA:
➢ CALCULATION OF SEMESTER GRADE POINT AVERAGE (SGPA):
• The performance of each student at the end of each semester shall be indicated
in terms of SGPA. The SGPA shall be calculated as below:
Total earned weighted grade points in a semester
SGPA =
Total credits in a semester
∑P C ∗G
i=1 i i
SGPA=
∑P C
i=1 i
where C = Number of credits allotted to a particular course ‘i’
i
G = Grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to the
i
course ‘i’
i = 1,2,…..p represent the number of courses in a particular
semester
NOTE: SGPA is calculated and awarded to those students who pass all the courses
in a semester.
➢ CALCULATION OF CUMULATIVE GRADE POINT AVERAGE (CGPA):
The CGPA of a student for the entire programme shall be calculated as given
below:
• Assessment of the overall performance of a student shall be obtained by
calculating cumulative grade point average (CGPA), which is weighted average
of the grade points obtained in all courses during the course of study.
Total earned weighted grade points for the entire programme
CGPA=
Total credits for the entire programme
∑m C ∗G
j=1 j j
CGPA=
∑m C
j=1 j
where C = number of credits allotted to a particular course ‘j’
j
G = grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to that
j
course ‘j’
j = 1,2,….m represent the number of courses of the entire
programme.
• Grade lower than C in any course shall not be considered for CGPA calculation.
The CGPA shall be awarded only when the student acquires the required
number of credits prescribed for the programme.
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 26
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
➢ GRADE CARD:
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each course offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each course
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
➢ ILLUSTRATION OF COMPUTATION OF SGPA AND CGPA:
❖ Illustration of calculation of SGPA:
Course Course Letter Grade Credit Point
Name Credits (C) Grade Point (GP) (CP = C x GP)
Course 1 3 A 8 3 x 8 = 24
Course 2 4 B+ 7 4 x 7 = 28
Course 3 3 B 6 3 x 6 = 18
Course 4 3 O 10 3 x 10 = 30
Course 5 3 C 5 3 x 5 = 15
Course 6 4 B 6 4 x 6 = 24
TOTAL
20 TOTAL CREDIT POINTS 139
CREDITS
139
Thus, SGPA = = 6.95
20
❖ Illustration of calculation of CGPA upto II semester:
Course Letter
Course Grade Point Credit Point
Semester Credits Grade
Name (GP) (CP = C x GP)
(C) Secured
I Course 1 4 A 8 32
I Course 2 3 O 10 40
I Course 3 3 B 6 18
I Course 4 3 C 5 15
I Course 5 1 A+ 9 9
I Course 6 1 B+ 7 7
I Course 7 3 O 10 30
I Course 8 1 C 5 5
I Course 9 1 A 8 8
II Course 10 3 A 8 24
II Course 11 3 A+ 9 27
II Course 12 3 B 6 18
II Course 13 3 A 8 24
II Course 14 3 A+ 9 27
II Course 15 1 A 8 8
II Course 16 1 A 8 8
II Course 17 2 B 6 12
II Course 18 1 A+ 9 9
TOTAL CREDITS 40 TOTAL CREDIT POINTS 321
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 27
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
321
Thus, CGPA = = 8.02
40
• The above illustrated process of calculation of CGPA shall be followed for each
subsequent semester until eighth semester i.e., (IV year II semester).
• The CGPA obtained at the end of eighth semester i.e., (IV year II semester)
shall be the final CGPA secured by the student for the entire B.Tech.
programme.
21.0 REVALUATION:
• Student can register for the revaluation by paying a prescribed fee.
• The Controller of Examinations (CoE) shall arrange for the revaluation and
declare the results.
• Revaluation shall not be permitted to the courses other than theory courses.
22.0 CREDIT TRANSFER:
• Credit transfer of a student from other Institution to VNRVJIET is permitted for
under-graduate programme as per the GOs from the Government of
Telangana.
❖ Credit transfer from another Institution to VNRVJIET:
• A student studying in another Institution can take transfer to VNRVJIET against
notification and orders issued by the Government of Telangana, under the
following conditions:
✓ When a student seeks transfer, equivalent credits shall be assigned to the
student based on the equivalent courses studied earlier by the student.
✓ The student, when transferred from other Institution, must follow the rules
and regulations of VNRVJIET.
✓ To graduate from VNRVJIET, a transferred student must study at least half
of the minimum duration prescribed for a programme at VNRVJIET.
❖ Credit transfer facility through MOOC:
• Detailed guidelines regarding credit transfer of the courses pursued through
MOOC shall be issued time to time by the Academic Section.
23.0 WITH-HOLDING OF RESULTS:
• If a student has not paid the pending fee dues to the institute / if any case of
indiscipline / malpractice is pending against him, the results of such student
shall be withheld.
• The issue of the award of the provisional certificate and the B.Tech. degree is
liable to be withheld in such cases.
24.0 DISCIPLINE:
• Every student is required to observe discipline and decorum both inside and
outside the institute and not to indulge in any activity which shall tend to bring
down the honor of the institute.
• If a student indulges in malpractice in any of the theory / practical CIE or SEE,
he shall be liable for punitive action as prescribed by the Institute from time to
time.
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 28
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
25.0 TRANSITORY REGULATIONS:
❖ Students detained due to lack of attendance:
• A student who has been detained in any semester of B.Tech. I, II, III and IV
years of R13/R15/R18 academic regulations for want of attendance, shall be
permitted to rejoin the corresponding semester of R19 academic regulation as
and when he becomes eligible.
• He is required to complete the study of B.Tech. programme within the
stipulated period of eight academic years from the year of first admission in
B.Tech. I Year.
• R19 academic regulations shall be applicable to the student from the semester
of readmission onwards.
• He shall take up equivalent courses, as substitute courses in place of repeated
courses as decided by the Chairman of the BoS of the respective departments.
❖ Students detained due to shortage of credits:
• A student of R13/R15/R18 academic regulations who has been detained due to
shortage of credits, shall be promoted to the next semester of R19 academic
regulations only after acquiring the required credits as per the corresponding
academic regulations of his first admission.
• He is required to complete the study of B.Tech. programme within the
stipulated period of eight academic years from the year of first admission in
B.Tech. I year.
• R19 academic regulations shall be applicable to the student from the semester
of readmission onwards.
❖ For readmitted students in R19 Academic Regulations:
• A student who has failed in any course(s) under any regulation has to pass
those course(s) in the same regulations.
• Minimum academic requirement of R19 academic regulation shall be applicable
to all the readmitted students.
• Credit structure as defined in the course structure of B.Tech. programmes
under R19 academic regulation shall be followed from the semester of
readmission.
• If a student readmitted to R19 academic regulations, has any course with 80%
of syllabus common with his previous regulations, then that particular course
in R19 academic regulations shall be substituted by another course as
suggested by the Board of Studies (BoS) of the concerned department.
• If a student readmitted to R19 academic regulations, has not studied any
courses/topics in his/her earlier regulations of study which is prerequisite for
further courses in R19 academic regulations, the department HoD concerned
shall conduct remedial classes to cover those courses/topics for the benefit of
the students.
• There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission process.
• The decision of the Institute Academic Committee shall be final in respect of
equivalent courses for those students who are transferred from other colleges.
The transfer of students from other college to VNRVJIET is to be approved by
the Governing Council of the Institute.
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 29
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
26.0 MINIMUM INSTRUCTION PERIOD:
• The minimum instruction period for each semester shall be 16 weeks.
27.0 GENERAL:
• Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include “she”,
“her”, “hers”.
• The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any
interpretation.
• In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arising in the above rules and
regulations, the decision of the Principal shall be final.
• The Chairman, Academic Council may change or amend any or all of the
academic regulations or syllabi at any time and the changes or amendments
made shall be applicable to all the students concerned with effect from the
dates as notified by the Institute.
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 30
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS FOR
B.TECH. - LATERAL ENTRY SCHEME (LES)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2020-2021)
30.0 MINIMUM ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS:
• Attendance requirements and detention policy of four year B.Tech. regular
degree programmes as specified in 13.0 of these regulations is adopted for
students admitted to B.Tech. degree programme under lateral entry scheme
(LES).
• Academic performance requirements as specified in 14.0 of these regulations
are adopted for students admitted to B.Tech. degree programme under lateral
entry scheme (LES).
• Student who fails to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award of the
degree within six academic years from the year of his/her admission, shall
forfeit his/her seat in B.Tech. programme and his/her admission stands
cancelled.
31.0 PROMOTION POLICY:
Apart from the minimum required attendance conditions as specified in 13.0 of
these regulations, the credit conditions to be fulfilled by a student for getting
promoted from the current semester to the next semester are given below:
• For promotion from fourth semester (II year II semester) to fifth semester
(III year I semester), a student must secure atleast 50% of the total credits
up to fourth semester (II year II semester) i.e., 20 credits out of 40
credits of the B.Tech. programme of study.
• For promotion from sixth semester (III year II semester) to seventh
semester (IV year I semester), a student must secure atleast 60% of the
total credits up to sixth semester (III year II semester) i.e., 49 credits out
of 82 credits of the B.Tech. programme of study.
32.0 SCHEME FOR THE AWARD OF DEGREE:
❖ Award of B.Tech. Degree:
A lateral entry student shall be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech.
degree if he/she fulfils the following academic regulations:
• Pursued a programme of study for not less than three academic years and not
more than six academic years.
• Registered for 120 credits and secured a minimum of 120 credits.
Rules for B.Tech. Honors degree and B.Tech. Minor degree shall be same as
mentioned in 18.0 of these regulations.
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 31
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
MALPRACTICE RULES
DISCIPLINARY ACTION FOR IMPROPER CONDUCT IN EXAMINATIONS
Nature of Malpractices/Improper Punishment
S.No. conduct
If a student:
1. Possesses or keeps accessible in Expulsion from the examination hall
(a) examination hall, any paper, note and cancellation of the performance
book, programmable calculators, in that course only.
cell phones, pager, palm
computers or any other form of
material concerned with or related
to the course of the examination
(theory or practical) in which he is
appearing but has not made use of
(material shall include any marks
on the body of the student which
can be used as an aid in the course
of the examination)
(b) Gives assistance or guidance or Expulsion from the examination hall
receives it from any other student and cancellation of the performance
orally or by any other body in that course only of all the
language methods or students involved. In case of an
communicates through cell outsider, he shall be handed over to
phones with any student or the police and a case is registered
persons in or outside the exam against him.
hall in respect of any matter.
2. Has copied in the examination hall Expulsion from the examination hall
from any paper, book, and cancellation of the performance
programmable calculators, palm in that course and all other courses
computers or any other form of the student has already appeared
material relevant to the course of including practical examinations and
the examination (theory or project work and shall not be
practical) in which the student is permitted to appear for the
appearing. remaining examinations of the
courses of that Semester/year.
The Hall Ticket of the student is to
be cancelled and sent to the
Controller of Examinations.
3. Impersonates any other student in The student who has impersonated
connection with the examination. shall be expelled from examination
hall. The student is also debarred
and forfeits the seat. The
performance of the original student,
who has been impersonated, shall
be cancelled in all the courses of the
examination (including practicals
and project work) already appeared
and shall not be allowed to appear
for examinations of the remaining
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 32
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
courses of that semester/year. The
student is also debarred for two
consecutive semesters from class
work and all semester end
examinations. The continuation of
the course by the student is course
to the academic regulations in
connection with forfeiture of seat. If
the imposter is an outsider, he shall
be handed over to the police and a
case is registered against him.
4. Smuggles in the Answer book or Expulsion from the examination hall
additional sheet or takes out or and cancellation of performance in
arranges to send out the question that course and all the other courses
paper during the examination or the student has already appeared
answer book or additional sheet, including practical examinations and
during or after the examination. project work and shall not be
permitted for the remaining
examinations of the courses of that
semester/year. The student is also
debarred for two consecutive
semesters from class work and all
semester end examinations. The
continuation of the course by the
student is course to the academic
regulations in connection with
forfeiture of seat.
5. Uses objectionable, abusive or Cancellation of the performance in
offensive language in the answer that course.
paper or in letters to the
examiners or writes to the
examiner requesting him to award
pass marks.
6. Refuses to obey the orders of the In case of students of the college,
Controller of Examinations they shall be expelled from
/Additional Controller of examination halls and cancellation
Examinations/any officer on duty of their performance in that course
or misbehaves or creates and all other courses the student(s)
disturbance of any kind in and has (have) already appeared and
around the examination hall or shall not be permitted to appear for
organizes a walk out or instigates the remaining examinations of the
others to walk out, or threatens courses of that semester/year. The
the COE or any person on duty in students also are debarred and
or outside the examination hall of forfeit their seats. In case of
any injury to his person or to any outsiders, they shall be handed over
of his relations whether by words, to the police and a police case is
either spoken or written or by registered against them.
signs or by visible representation,
assaults the COE or any person on
duty in or outside the examination
hall or any of his relations, or
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 33
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
indulges in any other act of
misconduct or mischief which
result in damage to or destruction
of property in the examination hall
or any part of the Institute
premises or engages in any other
act which in the opinion of the
officer on duty amounts to use of
unfair means or misconduct or has
the tendency to disrupt the
orderly conduct of the
examination.
7. Leaves the exam hall taking away Expulsion from the examination hall
answer script or intentionally tears and cancellation of performance in
of the script or any part thereof that course and all the other courses
inside or outside the examination the student has already appeared
hall. including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be
permitted for the remaining
examinations of the courses of that
semester/year. The student is also
debarred for two consecutive
semesters from class work and all
semester end examinations. The
continuation of the course by the
student is course to the academic
regulations in connection with
forfeiture of seat.
8. Possess any lethal weapon or Expulsion from the examination hall
firearm in the examination hall. and cancellation of the performance
in that course and all other courses
the student has already appeared
including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be
permitted for the remaining
examinations of the courses of that
semester/year. The student is also
debarred and forfeits the seat.
9. If student of the college, who is Student of the colleges expulsion
not a candidate for the particular from the examination hall and
examination or any person not cancellation of the performance in
connected with the college that course and all other courses the
indulges in any malpractice or student has already appeared
improper conduct mentioned in including practical examinations and
clause 6 to 8. project work and shall not be
permitted for the remaining
examinations of the courses of that
semester/year. The student is also
debarred and forfeits the seat.
Person(s) who do not belong to the
College shall be handed over to
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 34
VNRVJIET B.Tech. CBCS R19 Regulations
police and, a police case shall be
registered against them.
10. Comes in a drunken condition to Expulsion from the examination hall
the examination hall. and cancellation of the performance
in that course and all other courses
the student has already appeared
including practical examinations and
project work and shall not be
permitted for the remaining
examinations of the courses of that
semester/year.
11. Copying detected on the basis of Cancellation of the performance in
internal evidence, such as, during that course and all other courses the
valuation or during special student has appeared including
scrutiny. practical examinations and project
work of that semester/year
examinations.
12. If any malpractice is detected
which is not covered in the above
clauses 1 to 11 shall be reported
to the Principal for further action
to award suitable punishment.
Malpractices identified by squad or special invigilators:
Punishments shall be given to the students as per the above guidelines.
Malpractice identified at Spot center during valuation:
The following procedure shall be followed in the case of malpractice cases detected
during valuation, scrutiny etc. at spot center:
1) Malpractice is detected at the spot valuation.
The case is to be referred to the malpractice committee. Malpractice committee
shall meet and discuss/question the student and based on the evidences, the
committee shall recommend suitable action on the student.
2) A notice is to be served to the student(s) involved, through the Principal, to his
address and to the student(s) permanent address regarding the malpractice and
seek explanations.
3) The involvement of staff who are in-charge of conducting examinations,
invigilators, examiners valuing examination papers and preparing / keeping
records of documents related to the examinations in such acts (inclusive of
providing incorrect or misleading information) that infringe upon the course of
natural justice to one and all concerned at the examinations shall be viewed
seriously and recommend for award of appropriate punishment after thorough
enquiry.
4) Based on the explanation by the party involved and recommendations of the
committee action may be initiated.
5) Malpractice committee:
i. Dean of Academics Chairman
ii. Controller of Examinations Convener
iii. Invigilator Member
iv. Chief Examiner of the course/course expert Member
v. Concerned Head of the Department Member
VNRVJIET Hyderabad Page 35
