SOURCE PDF: https://vnrvjiet.ac.in/assets/pdfs/VNRR18.pdf

================================================================================
PDF CONTENT:
================================================================================

VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
VALLURUPALLI NAGESWARA RAO VIGNANA JYOTHI
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY HYDERABAD
(An Autonomous Institute)
ACADEMIC RULES AND REGULATIONS OF FOUR YEAR B.TECH. REGULAR
DEGREE PROGRAMME APPLICABLE FOR THE STUDENT BATCHES
ADMITTED FROM THE ACADEMIC YEAR 2018 – 2019
1.0 PREAMBLE:
Vallurupalli Nageswara Rao Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology (VNRVJIET)
aims at achieving academic excellence by implementing new initiatives in teaching-learning and
evaluation processes. Based on the directions of the University Grants Commission (UGC), New
Delhi, All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), New Delhi and Jawaharlal Nehru
Technological University (JNTU) Hyderabad, VNRVJIET introduced the Choice Based Credit
System (CBCS) in both the under-graduate and post-graduate programmes offered from the
academic year 2015 – 16. Keeping in view of the standardization of the higher education system
in India, VNRVJIET is continuing the implementation of CBCS ahead.
2.0 SHORT TITLE, APPLICATION AND COMMENCEMENT:
• These regulations shall be called as the “VNRVJIET Choice Based Credit System (CBCS)
B.Tech. Academic Regulations, 2018”. In short, it shall be referred as ‘VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18
CBCS Regulations’.
• The regulations are quite comprehensive and include definitions of key terms, semester
system, credit system, grading system and other relevant details.
• The regulations detailed herein shall apply to all the regular and professional under-graduate
programmes offered by the Institute.
• These regulations shall be applicable and come into force to the student batches admitted
from the academic year 2018-19.
• The Institute may revise, amend or change the regulations, scheme of examinations and
syllabi, from time to time, if found necessary and on approval by the Academic Council of the
Institute, keeping the recommendations of the BoS in view.
• Any or all such amendments shall be effective from such date and to such batches of
students including those already undergoing the programme, as may be approved through
Academic Council of the Institute.
3.0 CHOICE BASED CREDIT SYSTEM:
• The Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) enables a student to obtain a degree by accumulating
the required number of credits prescribed for that degree. Under the CBCS, the requirement
for awarding a degree is prescribed in terms of number of credits to be completed by the
students. The number of credits earned by the student reflects the knowledge or skill
acquired by him / her. Each course is assigned with a fixed number of credits based on the
contents to be learned. The student also has choice in selecting the courses out of those
offered by the various departments. The grade points earned for each of the course reflects
the student’s proficiency in that course.
Page | 1
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
• The CBCS provides the student flexibility in duration to complete a programme of study. The
CBCS facilitates transfer of credits earned in different departments or institutions of higher
education in India.
• The CBCS permits students to:
1. Choose electives from a wide range of elective courses offered by the departments.
2. Undergo additional courses of interest.
3. Adopt an interdisciplinary approach in learning.
4. Make the best use of expertise of the available faculty.
4.0 ABBREVIATIONS:
Abbreviation Full Form
AAT Alternative Assessment Tool
AC Academic Council
AICTE All India Council for Technical Education
B.Tech. Bachelor of Technology
BIE Board of Intermediate Education
BoS Board of Studies
C Credits
CA Class Assessment
CBCS Choice Based Credit System
CGPA Cumulative Grade Point Average
CIE Continuous Internal Evaluation
CO Course Outcomes
CoE Controller of Examinations
CP Credit Point
D Drawing
DoA Dean of Academics
GO Government Order
GP Grade Point
IAC Institute Academic Committee
JNTUH Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad
L Lecture
LES Lateral Entry Scheme
M.Tech. Master of Technology
MOOC Massive Open Online Course
NBA National Board of Accreditation
NPTEL National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning
OBE Outcome Based Education
P Practical
PG Post-Graduate
Ph.D. Doctor of Philosophy
PO Programme Outcomes
PSO Programme Specific Outcomes
SEE Semester End Examination
Page | 2
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
SGPA Semester Grade Point System
SWAYAM Study Webs of Active Learning for Young and Aspiring Minds
T Tutorial
UG Under-Graduate
UGC University Grants Commission
Vallurupalli Nageswara Rao Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering &
VNRVJIET
Technology
5.0 NOMENCLATURE:
S. No. Keywords Definition
1. Academic Council: Highest academic body of the Institute and is
responsible for the maintenance of standards of
instruction, education and examination within the
Institute. Academic Council is an authority as per the
AICTE / UGC regulations and has the right to take
decisions on all academic matters including academic
research.
2. Academic Plan: A document defining the course contents and
complete details of plan of delivery of the course viz.
Course title, Course code, Pre-requisite, Credit
structure, Team of instructors, Course objectives,
Course outcomes, Mapping of course outcomes and
programmes outcomes, relevant syllabus,
textbook(s) and reference books, Course session
plan and delivery plan, evaluation method, course
notices and other course related aspects.
3. Academic Year: A period that is necessary to complete courses of
study. It consists of two consecutive (one odd + one
even) semesters.
4. Admission Procedure: As prescribed by the Government of Telangana.
5. Audit Course: A course of study which has neither evaluation
component nor a grade.
6. Autonomous Institute: An Institute designated as 'Autonomous' by
University Grants Commission (UGC), New Delhi in
concurrence with the affiliating University i.e.,
Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University,
Hyderabad and Telangana State Government.
7. Backlog Course: A course is considered to be a backlog course if the
student has obtained a Fail (F) grade.
8. Basic Science Courses: Courses of foundational nature in the areas of
Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Biology etc.
9. Betterment: Betterment is a way that contributes towards
improvement of the students’ grade in any course(s).
It can be done by either (a) re-appearing or (b) re-
registering for the course.
10. Board of Studies: An authority, as defined in UGC regulations,
constituted by the Principal for each of the
department separately. The board is responsible for
curriculum design and update in respect of all the
Page | 3
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
programmes offered by a department.
11. Branch: A discipline or specialization of a degree programme
like Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering etc.
12. Certificate Course: A course that makes a student gain hands-on
expertise and skills required for holistic development.
It is a mandatory, non-credited course for the award
of degree.
13. Choice Based Credit System A system which provides choice for students to select
(CBCS): from the prescribed courses.
14. Compulsory Course: Course required to be undertaken for the award of
the degree as per the programme.
15. Continuous Internal Summative assessments used to evaluate student
Evaluation (CIE): learning, acquired skills, and academic attainment
during a course.
16. Course: A course offered for learning in a particular semester
by the Institute. These could be theory / laboratory /
project work / miniproject / internship etc. and may
comprise of lectures / tutorials / practicals /
assignments / examination / viva-voce etc. All the
courses need not carry the same weightage. A course
is defined through course objectives and course
outcomes.
17. Course Outcomes (CO): Statements describing essential skills that each and
every student need to acquire at the end of a course.
They can be from 3 to 5 for all the courses.
18. Course Registration: Process of enrolling into a set of courses in a
semester of the programme.
19. Credit: A unit by which the course work is measured. It
determines the number of hours of instructions
required per week. One credit is equivalent to one
lecture hour of teaching (lecture or tutorial) or two
hours of practical / field -work per week.
20. Credit Based Semester A system which prescribes the number of credits to
System (CBSS): be secured by the student for the requirement of
award of degree.
21. Credit Point: A product of grade point and number of credits for a
course.
22. Credit Transfer: The procedure of granting credit(s) to a student for
course(s) undertaken at another institution.
23. Cumulative Grade Point A measure of overall cumulative performance of a
Average (CGPA): student over all semesters. It is the ratio of total
credit points secured by a student in various courses
in all semesters and the sum of the total credits of all
courses in all the semesters. It is expressed up to two
decimal places.
24. Curriculum: Curriculum incorporates all the courses that are
offered in a specific discipline. It also indicates the
planned interaction of students with instructional
content, materials and resources.
25. Degree: A student who fulfills all the programme
requirements is eligible to receive a degree.
Page | 4
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
26. Department: An academic entity that conducts relevant curricular
and co-curricular activities, involving both teaching
and non-teaching staff and other resources.
27. Detention: Student who does not secure minimum required
attendance in AGGREGATE shall be detained OR
Student who does not secure minimum credits
required for promotion from one year to the next
shall be detained.
28. Dropping of Courses: A student who doesn’t want to register certain
courses should do so in writing in a prescribed format
within the time frame as mentioned in these
regulations.
29. Engineering Science Courses: Courses belonging to the basic evolutionary aspects
of engineering from Mechanical Engineering,
Electrical Engineering, Computer Science etc. like
Workshop Practices, Engineering Graphics,
Engineering Drawing, Programming through C, Basics
of Electrical Energy for Engineers, Engineering
Mechanics, etc.
30. Evaluation: Evaluation is the process of judging the academic
work done by the student in his / her courses. It is
done through a combination of continuous internal
evaluation and semester end examinations.
31. Grade Point: A numerical weight allotted to each letter grade on a
10-point scale.
32. Grade Sheet: Based on the grades earned, a grade sheet shall be
issued to all the registered students after every
semester. The grade sheet shall display the course
details (Course code, Course title, number of credits,
grade secured) along with SGPA of that semester and
CGPA earned till that semester.
33. Humanities & Social Sciences Courses offered in the area of humanities and liberal
Courses: arts.
34. Industrial Visit: Visit to a company / firm as per the academic
requirement.
35. Industry Oriented Mini- A credit-based course that a student has to undergo
Project during a specified semester involving exploration in a
discipline belonging to their research interest within
their programme of study.
36. Institute: VNRVJIET
37. Internship: A period of training / work experience offered by an
industry / research organization for a limited period of
time.
38. Laboratory based Course A student-centric learning methodology wherein
Projects: students work as individuals or in teams in a
laboratory for design, problem-solving, decision
making, and investigative activities.
39. Letter Grade: An index of the performance of students in a said
course. Grades are denoted by letters like O, A+, A,
B+, B, C, F, Ab.
40. Mandatory Courses: Compulsory non-credit courses that a student need
Page | 5
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
to study as prescribed in the programme.
41. Massive Open Online Open access online courses aimed at providing ways
Courses (MOOC): to learn new skills.
42. Open Elective Courses: Courses of interdisciplinary nature offered to all the
students of various programmes across the Institute.
43. Outcome Based Education: An educational theory wherein each part of an
educational system is based around goals
(outcomes). Each student should have achieved the
goal by the end of the educational experience.
44. Overloading: Registering for more number of credits than normally
prescribed by the programme in a semester.
45. Pre-requisite: A course whose knowledge is required for
registration into higher level course.
46. Professional Core Courses: Courses that are fundamental constituents of the
respective engineering discipline.
47. Professional Elective Courses those are discipline-specific.
Courses:
48. Programme: A set of courses offered by the department leading
to the award of degree in that programme.
49. Programme Outcomes (PO): Statements describing the essential skill sets that
each and every student need to possess at the time
of graduation. These skill sets based on the graduate
attributes as defined by the National Board of
Accreditation (NBA) are in the areas of employability,
entrepreneurial, social and behavioral aspects. They
are 12 in number for a specific programme and are
subjected to modification from time to time as
defined by the NBA.
50. Programme Specific Statements that describe what the graduates of a
Outcomes (PSO): specific programme should be able to do. They can
be 3 to 5 in number for a specific programme.
51. Project: A credit-based course that a student has to undergo,
as prescribed in the programme, which involves the
student to undertake a research or design that is
carefully planned to achieve a particular aim.
52. Re-appearing: A student can reappear only in the supplementary
semester end examination for the external
component of a course, subject to the exam
registration and the regulations contained herein.
53. Regulations: The rules and regulations contained herein that are
common to all the B.Tech. programmes offered by
the Institute and designated as “VNRVJIET R18 CBCS
Regulations”
54. Re-registering: A student desiring to repeat a course is permitted to
do so, subject to the regulations contained herein.
55. Semester: Each semester shall consist of 16 weeks of academic
work excluding examination and evaluation.
56. Semester End Examination: An examination conducted at the end of a course of
study i.e., after the completion of instruction in a
semester.
57. Semester Grade Point A measure of performance of work done in a
Page | 6
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
Average: semester. It is ratio of total credit points secured by a
student in various courses registered in a semester
and the total course credits taken during that
semester. It shall be expressed up to two decimal
places.
58. Substitute Courses: A course that is offered in place of another course
that is already studied by the student and is repeated
in the semester of study.
59. Underloading: Registering for lesser number of credits than
normally prescribed by the programme in a semester.
60. University: Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University
Hyderabad
61. Virtual Laboratories: Web enabled experiments for remote operation so as
to increase the curiosity and innovation of students
and provide hands-on experience.
6.0 UNDER-GRADUATE DEGREE PROGRAMMES ON OFFER:
VNRVJIET offers 4-year (8 semesters) Bachelor of Technology (B. Tech.) degree programme,
under Choice Based Credit System (CBCS), with effect from the academic year 2018 - 19
onwards, in the branches as shown in the Table 1.
Table 1 B.Tech. programmes of study on offer
S. No. Branch
1 Automobile Engineering
2 Civil Engineering
3 Computer Science and Engineering
4 Electrical and Electronics Engineering
5 Electronics and Communication Engineering
6 Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
7 Information Technology
8 Mechanical Engineering
7.0 ELIGIBILITY FOR ADMISSION:
The eligibility criteria for admission into engineering programmes offered at VNRVJIET shall be as
prescribed by the Government of Telangana. The criteria are given below:
• The candidate shall be an Indian National / NRI.
• The candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st December of the academic
year for which the admissions are being conducted.
• The candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or equivalent as on the
date of admission recognized by BIE, Telangana State.
• Seats in each programme in the Institute are classified into two categories i.e., Category – A
and Category – B as per the GOs.
• Category – A Seats
These seats shall be filled through counseling as per the rank secured by a candidate in the
Common Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by the Government of Telangana and as per other
admission criteria laid down in the GOs.
• Category – B Seats
These seats shall be filled by the Institute as per the GOs issued by the Government of Telangana
Page | 7
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
from time to time.
• Direct Admission to Second Year: (Lateral Entry Scheme)
A candidate shall be admitted into the third semester (II year I semester) based on the rank
secured by the candidate in the Engineering Common Entrance Test [ECET (For Diploma
Holders)] by the Government of Telangana and as per other admission criteria laid down in the
GOs.
8.0 MEDIUM OF INSTRUCTION:
The medium of instruction shall be English for all the courses including their content delivery and
examinations, seminars, presentations and project evaluation as prescribed in the programme
curriculum.
9.0 B.TECH. PROGRAMME STRUCTURE:
The structure of the B.Tech. programmes on offer at VNRVJIET are based on the Choice Based
Credit System (CBCS) and Credit Based Semester System (CBSS) as defined by the UGC and the
curriculum / course structure as suggested by the AICTE in its Model Curriculum.
Semester Scheme:
• The B.Tech. programmes offered at VNRVJIET follow semester scheme pattern.
• The duration of a B.Tech. programme shall be 4 academic years.
• Each academic year shall have 2 semesters i.e., odd and even semesters and shall be counted
as first semester, second semester, third semester and so on upto eighth semester.
• Each semester shall consist of 16 weeks of academic work excluding examination and
evaluation.
• Each semester is structured to provide credits totaling to 160 credits for the entire B.Tech.
programme.
• Each semester shall have ‘Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE)’ and ‘Semester End
Examination (SEE)’.
• Each student shall secure a total of 160 credits with a CGPA ≥ 5.0 required for the completion
of the UG programme and the award of the B.Tech. degree.
• A student after securing admission into a B.Tech. programme at VNRVJIET shall pursue and
acquire the B.Tech. degree in a minimum period of four academic years i.e., 8 semesters and
a maximum period of eight academic years i.e., 16 semesters starting from the date of
commencement of I year I semester, failing which the student shall forfeit the seat in B.Tech.
programme.
10.0 DURATION OF THE ACADEMIC PROGRAMMES:
• Under CBCS, programme duration shall be defined by the period in which a student earns the
prescribed credits for the award of B.Tech. degree.
• Hence, it is possible for an outstanding student to qualify for the award of degree in a shorter
time than that of the duration specified for the concerned programme. However, the B.Tech.
degree shall be issued at the end of normal duration of the programme i.e., four years.
❖ Normal Duration:
• The duration of the B.Tech. degree programme shall be four years.
• The duration of the B.Tech. lateral entry scheme (LES) degree programme shall be three
years.
Page | 8
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
❖ Maximum Duration:
• The maximum period in which a student can complete a full time B.Tech. degree programme
shall be twice the normal duration of the programme, i.e., eight years (16 semesters) for
B.Tech. degree and six years (12 semesters) for B.Tech. lateral entry scheme degree (For
Diploma Holders).
• The maximum period for a programme shall also be dictated by the fact that a student has to
demonstrate the prescribed minimum academic performance by registering for the
prescribed minimum number of credits in every semester, for continuing in the programme.
This period can be equal to or lesser than the maximum period indicated as indicated above.
11.0 COURSES AND CREDIT STRUCTURE:
• Every course in the B.Tech. programme of study has a Lecture-Tutorial-Practical (L-T-P)
component attached to it. Based upon the L-T-P structure, the credits are allotted to a course
using the criteria as shown in the Table 2.
Table 2 Contact hour and credit structure
Type of Course Component Contact Hours/Week Credits (C)
Lecture (L) 1 1
Theory
Tutorial (T) 1 1
Laboratory Practical (P) 2 1
Drawing /
Drawing / Design 2 1
Design (D)
• Every course of the B.Tech. programme shall be offered by a specific section / department.
The unique codes of the section / department offering the courses are given in the Table 3.
Table 3 Course offering section / department
Course Offering Section / Department Code
Physics PH
Chemistry CH
English EN
Mathematics MT
Management MG
Humanities & Social Sciences HS
Civil Engineering CE
Electrical & Electronics Engineering EE
Mechanical Engineering ME
Electronics & Communication Engineering EC
Computer Science & Engineering CS
Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering EI
Information Technology IT
Automobile Engineering AE
❖ Structure:
• Every B.Tech. programme of study shall be designed to have theory and laboratory courses.
In addition, a student shall carry out internship, industry oriented mini-project, project, design
sensitization, design thinking and other courses as prescribed in the curriculum of the
programmes.
Page | 9
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
• Every course offered under a B.Tech. programme shall be placed in one of the course
categories with minimum credits as listed in the Table 4.
Table 4 Category of Courses, their Codes and Distribution of Credits
Range of Credit
Type of Courses Course Category Code
Credits Composition (%)
Engineering Science ES 22 12.5 – 18.12
Basic Science BS 22 13.75
Foundation
Compulsory Humanities & Social
HS 10 6.25
Courses Science Incl. Management
Core Professional Core PC 57 - 62 35.62 – 38.75
Project Project PW 16 10
Professional Elective PE 18 11.25
Elective Courses
Open Elective OE 12 7.5
Audit AU Non- --
Mandatory Courses
Mandatory MN Credit --
Total 160
MOOC Online OL -- --
Virtual Laboratories Online VL -- --
• The course group / category along with their broad classification and description are listed in
the Table 5.
Table 5 Description of Courses
Broad Course Course Group/
Description of Courses
Classification Category
Includes mathematics, physics, chemistry and biology
Basic Sciences
courses
Engineering
Includes fundamental engineering courses
Sciences
Foundation
Humanities and Social
Includes courses related to humanities, social sciences
Sciences including
and management
Management
Includes core courses related to the parent discipline /
Professional Core
department / branch of Engineering
Core Project Work B.Tech. project stage-I and stage-II
Internship / Industry oriented mini-project / Design
Mini- project
sensitization / Design thinking
Professional Includes elective courses related to the parent
Electives discipline / department t/ branch of Engineering
Elective Elective courses which include inter – disciplinary
Open Electives courses or courses in an area outside the parent
discipline / department / branch of Engineering
Page | 10
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
Mandatory -
Mandatory non-credit courses
Audit -
12.0 REGISTRATION / DROPPING/ OFFERING OF COURSE(S):
❖ Course Registration:
• All the students must compulsorily register for course work at the beginning of each
semester as per the schedule mentioned in the Academic Calendar.
• It is essential for the students to register for all the prescribed courses in time.
• The registration shall be organized by the department under the supervision of the Head of
the Department.
• Every course may have one or more of its preceding course(s) as prerequisite(s).
• A ‘faculty mentor’ shall be assigned to a group of 20 students, who shall advise student about
the under-graduate programme, its course structure and curriculum, choice / option for
course / courses, based on their competence, progress, pre-requisites if any and interest.
• The academic section of the college shall invite ‘registration forms’ from students before the
beginning of the semester through ‘on-line registration’, ensuring ‘date and time stamping’.
• The on-line registration requests for any ‘current semester’ shall be completed before the
commencement of SEEs (Semester End Examinations) of the ‘preceding semester’.
• A student shall register courses on-line with the approval of faculty mentor. A copy of it shall
be retained by the student and other copies be submitted online to the concerned HoD,
faculty mentor and Dean of Academics.
• A student may be permitted to register for the courses of his / her choice in a semester with
credits as prescribed in the course structure of the concerned B.Tech. programme with a
deviation of ± 17% credits per semester for defining minimum and maximum credits, based on
the progress and SGPA / CGPA, and completion of the ‘pre-requisites’ as indicated for various
courses, in the course structure of the programmes and syllabus contents.
• Choice for ‘additional courses’ to reach the maximum permissible limit of + 17% credits as
specified in the course structure of the concerned programme, must be clearly indicated,
which needs the specific approval and signature of the faculty mentor.
• Additional courses shall be offered only upon meeting the prerequisites, if any, as mentioned
in the programme curriculum.
• Course options exercised through ‘on-line registration’ shall be FINAL and cannot be
changed or inter-changed; further, alternate choices also shall not be considered.
• However, if the course that has already been listed for registration by the Head of the
Department in a semester could not be offered due to any unforeseen or unexpected
reasons, then the student shall be allowed to have alternate choice either for a new course
(subject to offering of such a course), or for another existing course (subject to the
availability of seats). Such alternate arrangements shall be made by the Head of the
Department, with due notification and time-frame schedule, within the first week after the
commencement of class-work for that semester.
• IN ABSENTIA registration shall not be permitted under any circumstance.
• At the time of registration, students should have cleared all the dues of Institute and Hostel
in the previous semesters, paid the prescribed fees for the current semester and not been
debarred from Institute for a specified period on disciplinary or any other ground.
❖ Open Elective Courses:
• The students have to choose one open elective course (OE-I) in fifth semester, one (OE-II) in
sixth semester, one (OE-III) in seventh semester and one (OE-IV) in eighth semester from the
Page | 11
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
list of open electives as prescribed in the course structure of the programme.
• However, the student cannot opt for an open elective course offered by their own (parent)
department, if it is already listed under any category of the courses offered by parent
department in any semester.
❖ Professional Elective Courses:
• Students have to register for a total of 06 professional elective courses (PE-I to PE-VI) from
the list of professional elective courses as prescribed in the course structure of the
programme.
• However, the students of a particular discipline can register for discipline / interdisciplinary
courses of other disciplines provided they have met the pre-requisite or when the pre-
requisite is waived by Dean of Academics.
❖ Dropping of Courses:
• Dropping of one or more courses may be permitted, only after obtaining prior approval from
the faculty mentor (subject to retaining of minimum credits as prescribed in these
regulations), ‘within a period of 15 days’ from the beginning of the current semester for
maintaining studentship.
• The dropped courses are not recorded in the Grade Card.
• Student must complete the dropped course by registering them as and when offered in the
next semester in order to earn the required credits. This is in addition to the minimum
number of credits that are required to continue studentship in a semester. However, the total
credits registered in a semester should not exceed the maximum number of credits
permitted to register in that semester.
❖ Courses to be Offered:
• A typical section (or class) strength for each semester shall be 60.
• A course may be offered to the students, only if a minimum of 20 students (1/3 of the
section strength) opt for it. The maximum strength of a section is limited to 80 (60 + 1/3 of
the section strength).
• More than one faculty member may offer the same course in any semester.
• Laboratory / practical may be included with the corresponding theory course in the same
semester.
• However, in case of elective courses, selection / allotment of courses, based on the choice for
students shall be based on – ‘first come first serve’ basis in the on-line registration mode.
• If more entries for registration of a course come into picture, then the HoD concerned shall
decide, whether or not to offer such a course for two (or multiple) sections keeping in view
the resources available in the department offering the course.
13.0 ATTENDANCE REQUIREMENTS AND DETENTION POLICY:
• A student shall maintain a minimum required attendance of 75% in AGGREGATE.
• Shortage of attendance up to 10% i.e., attendance between 65% to 75% in aggregate, may be
condoned by the Institute Academic Committee based on the rules prescribed by the
Academic Council of the Institute from time to time.
• Shortage of attendance below 65 % shall in NO CASE BE CONDONED.
• A stipulated fee shall be payable towards condonation of shortage of attendance.
• Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned OR who have not paid the
stipulated fee OR who have not cleared any other due to the Institute in any semester are
not eligible to write the Semester End Examination (SEE).
• Students, who do not meet the minimum required attendance in a semester, shall be
Page | 12
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
detained in that semester and their registration for that semester shall stand cancelled. They
shall not be promoted to the next semester.
• Students detained in a semester shall seek re-admission into that semester as and when
offered.
• Academic regulations applicable to the semester in which re-admission is sought shall be
applicable to the re-admitted student.
• In case if there are any professional electives and/or open electives, the same may also be re-
registered if offered. However, if those electives are not offered in the later semesters, then
alternate electives may be chosen from the same set of elective courses offered under that
category.
• Any student against whom any disciplinary action is pending shall not be permitted to attend
semester end examination (SEE) in that semester.
• A student fulfilling the attendance requirement in the present semester shall not be eligible
for re-admission into the same class.
14.0 MINIMUM ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS:
• In addition to the attendance requirements mentioned in 13.0 of these regulations for the
award of B.Tech. degree, a student must satisfy the minimum academic requirements as
given below:
• A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic requirements and earn
the credits for each theory or practical or design or drawing course in B.Tech. programme, if
he secures
✓ A minimum of 35% marks for each theory course in the semester end examination (SEE),
and
✓ A minimum of 40% marks for each theory course considering both Continuous Internal
Evaluation (CIE) and Semester End Examination (SEE) taken together.
• A student shall be deemed to have satisfied the minimum academic requirements and earn
the credits allotted to internship, industry oriented mini-project, project, design sensitization
and design thinking courses, if he secures
✓ A minimum of 40% marks for internship, industry oriented mini-project, project, design
sensitization, design thinking courses
• A student shall be treated as failed, if he
✓ does not submit a report on internship, industry oriented mini-project, project, design
sensitization, design thinking courses, or
✓ does not make a presentation of the same before the evaluation committee as per the
schedule, or
✓ secures less than 40% marks in evaluation.
✓ In case of a student not meeting any of the above points, student may re-appear
once for each of the evaluation of internship, industry oriented mini-project,
project, design sensitization, design thinking courses, as scheduled by the
evaluation committee; if the student fails in such ‘one re-appearance’ evaluation
also, student has to re-appear for the same in the next subsequent semester, as and
when it is scheduled.
• A student shall register for all the courses covering 160 credits as specified and listed in the
course structure of the B.Tech. programme, fulfills all the attendance and academic
requirements for 160 credits, ‘earn all 160 credits’ by securing SGPA ≥ 5.0 (in each semester)
and CGPA (at the end of each successive semester) ≥ 5.0 to successfully complete the under-
graduate programme.
• If a student fails to secure a pass grade in a particular course, it is mandatory that he shall
register and reappear for the examination in that course during the next semester when SEE
Page | 13
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
is conducted in that course. It is mandatory that he should continue to register and reappear
for the examination till he secures a pass grade.
• A student eligible to appear in SEE of any course, but remains absent from it or gets failed
(failing to secure ‘C’ grade or above) may reappear for that course in the supplementary SEE
as and when conducted. In such cases, CIE assessed earlier for that course shall be carried
over, and added to the marks to be obtained in the supplementary SEE examination for
evaluating the performance in that course.
• A student detained in a semester due to shortage of attendance, may be re-admitted into
the same semester in the next academic year for fulfillment of the academic requirements.
• Academic regulations applicable to the semester in which re-admission is sought shall be
applicable to the re-admitted student. However, no grade allotments or SGPA/ CGPA
calculations shall be done for the entire semester in which the student has been detained.
• A student detained due to lack of credits, shall be promoted to the next year only after
acquiring the required academic credits. Academic regulations applicable to the semester in
which re-admission is sought shall be applicable to the re-admitted student.
• A student shall register and put up minimum academic requirement in all 160 credits and
earn all 160 credits for the award of B.Tech. degree.
• The student shall be qualified in two certificate courses of 40 hours duration each during his
course of study. Out of the two certificate courses, atleast one certificate course shall be
pursued through MOOCs platform like SWAYAM-NPTEL online courses, Coursera online
courses, BEC certification courses etc.
• Students who fail to earn atleast 160 credits as indicated in the course structure within eight
academic years counting from the year of their admission shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech.
programme and their admission stands cancelled.
15.0 PROMOTION RULES:
• Apart from the minimum required attendance conditions as specified in 13.0 of these
regulations, the credit conditions to be fulfilled by a student for getting promoted from the
current semester to the next semester are given in the Table 6.
Table 6 Promotion Rules
S. No. Promotion Conditions to be fulfilled
1 First semester (I year I semester) Regular course of study of first semester (I year
to second semester (I year I s e m e ster)
II semester)
2 Second semester (I year i . R e g u l a r course of study of second semester
II semester) to third semester ( I year II semester).
(II year I semester) ii. Must have secured atleast 40 % of the total
credits upto second semester (I year
II semester) of the respective programme
from all the relevant regular and
supplementary examinations, whether the
student takes those examinations or not.
3. Third semester (II year I semester) Regular course of study of third semester (II year
to fourth semester (II year I s e m e s t er).
I semester)
Page | 14
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
4 Fourth semester (II year II i. Regular course of study of fourth semester
semester) to fifth semester ( I I y e ar II semester).
(III year I semester) ii. Must have secured atleast 50% of the total
credits upto fourth semester (II year
II semester) of the respective programme
from all the relevant regular and
supplementary examinations, whether the
student takes those examinations or not.
5 Fifth semester (III year I semester) Regular course of study of fifth semester (III year
to sixth semester (III year I s e m e s ter).
II semester)
6 Sixth semester (III year i . R e g u l a r course of study of sixth semester
II semester) to seventh semester (III year II semester).
(IV year I semester) ii. Must have secured atleast 60% of the total
credits upto sixth semester (III year
II semester) of the respective programme
from all the relevant regular and
supplementary examinations, whether the
student takes those examinations or not.
7 Seventh semester (IV year R e g u l a r c o urse of study of seventh semester
I semester) to eighth semester (IV (IV year I semester)
year II semester)
16.0 DISTRIBUTION OF MARKS AND EVALUATION METHODOLOGY:
• The performance of a student in each semester shall be evaluated course wise with a
maximum of 100 marks for theory and 100 marks for practical courses. In addition, design
sensitization, design thinking, internship, industry oriented mini-project, project stage-I and
project stage-II courses shall be evaluated for 100 marks each.
16.1 Theory Courses:
• The syllabus for the theory courses shall be divided into SIX units and each unit carries equal
weightage in terms of marks distribution.
• For theory courses, the distribution of marks shall be 40 marks for Continuous
Internal Evaluation (CIE) and 60 marks for the Semester End Examination (SEE).
❖ Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE - 40 M):
• Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE) shall consist of sessional examination (SE - 30 M) and
Class Assessment (CA- 10 M).
➢ Sessional Examination (SE - 30 M):
• For theory courses, two sessional examinations shall be conducted in each semester as per
the academic calendar. Each sessional examination shall be evaluated for 30 marks.
• Question paper pattern for sessional examination (30 Marks) shall be as follows:
PART-A: 3 X 2 M = 6 M
a. There shall be one question from each unit.
b. All questions are compulsory.
PART-B: 3 X 8 M = 24 M
a. There shall be one question from each unit with internal choice i.e., ‘either’ ‘or’ choice.
b. The student shall answer one question from each unit.
c. There could be a maximum of two sub divisions in a question i.e., (a) and/or (b).
Page | 15
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
• Average of two SEs shall be calculated and used as the final sessional marks for each course.
➢ Class Assessment (CA - 10 M):
• Two class assessments consisting of any one of the alternative assessment tools (AAT) like
online quiz / assignment / objective exam / course project / case study etc. shall be conducted
covering the syllabus that is completed at the time of conducting the CA and evaluated for 10
marks each.
• The first and second CAs shall be conducted during the instruction days as mentioned in the
Academic Calendar.
• Average of two CAs shall be calculated and used as the final class assessment marks.
• The valuation and verification of answer scripts of CIE shall be completed within a week after
the conduct of the examination.
❖ Semester End Examination (SEE - 60 M):
• The SEE shall be conducted at the end of semester for a total of 60 marks of 3 hours
duration.
• The syllabus for the theory courses shall be divided into SIX units and each unit carries equal
weightage in terms of marks distribution.
• Question paper pattern for SEE (60 Marks) shall be as follows:
PART-A: 6 X 2 M = 12 M
a. There shall be one question from each unit.
b. All questions are compulsory.
PART-B: 6 X 8 M = 48 M
a. There shall be one question from each unit with internal choice i.e., ‘either’ ‘or’ choice.
b. The student shall answer one question from each UNIT.
c. There could be a maximum of two sub divisions in a question i.e., (a) and/or (b).
16.2 Practical Courses:
• For practical courses, there shall be a continuous internal evaluation (CIE) during the
semester for 40 marks and 60 marks for semester end examination (SEE). Out of the 40
marks allocated to CIE, 10 marks shall be for day-to-day work in the laboratory, 10 marks for
the practical examination to be conducted at the end of semester, 10 marks for team project
and 10 marks for laboratory record.
• Laboratory SEE shall be conducted at the end of semester for a total of 60 marks of 3 hours
duration.
• SEE shall be conducted by two examiners, one internal and other external concerned with
the subject of the same / other department / Industry.
• The evaluation shall be done as per the evaluation format provided by the DoA.
NOTE:
• Any student who shall remain absent for any of the CIE, for any reason what so ever, shall be
deemed to have secured ‘zero’ marks in the examination and no makeup examination shall
be conducted.
16.3 Supplementary Semester End Examinations:
• Supplementary examinations shall be conducted along with regular semester end
examinations (SEE).
• During SEE of even semester, supplementary examinations of odd semester shall be
conducted and during SEE of odd semester, supplementary examinations of even semester
shall be conducted.
Page | 16
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
16.4 Drawing and / or Design Courses:
• For drawing and / or design courses, (such as Engineering Drawing, Engineering Graphics,
Geometric Drawing, Production Drawing Practice etc.) there shall be continuous internal
evaluation (CIE) for 40 marks and 60 marks for semester end examination (SEE).
• Out of the 40 marks allocated to CIE, 10 marks shall be for day-to-day work in the laboratory
and 20 marks for the sessional examination and 10 marks for team project/viva.
• Two sessional examinations shall be conducted in each semester as per the academic
calendar. Each sessional examination shall be evaluated for 20 marks.
• Average of two sessional examinations shall be calculated and used as the final sessional
marks.
• SEE shall be conducted at the end of semester for a total of 60 marks of 3 hours duration.
The syllabus for the drawing courses is divided into SIX units and each unit carries equal
weightage in terms of marks distribution.
• Question paper pattern for semester end examination (60 Marks) is as follows.
6 X 10 M = 60 M
a. There shall be 01 question from each unit with internal choice i.e., ‘either’ ‘or’ choice.
b. The student shall answer one question from each UNIT.
c. There could be a maximum of two sub divisions in a question i.e., (a) and/or (b).
16.5 Design Sensitization and Design Thinking Courses:
• A student shall take up 01 credit ‘Design Sensitization’ course as prescribed in the course
structure of the concerned B.Tech. programme.
• A student shall understand the day-to-day life domestic applications and design small
objects/applications based on an idea conceived as part of this course content.
• ‘Design Sensitization’ course shall be evaluated for 100 marks.
• CIE shall be evaluated for 40 marks by a committee consisting of Head of the Department,
course coordinator/teacher and senior faculty member of the department.
• CIE shall be made on the basis of two seminars conducted and as per the evaluation format
provided by the DoA.
• SEE shall be evaluated for 60 marks by a committee consisting of Head of the Department,
course coordinator/teacher and an external expert from industry.
• As part of the evaluation, a student shall submit a detailed report regarding the design idea
and its conception into a prototype/simulation model etc.
• A student shall take up 02 credit ‘Design Thinking’ course leading to project in fifth semester
(III year I semester) of the B.Tech. programme.
• A student shall demonstrate design and development of prototype of engineering
applications based on the idea conceived as part of the course content.
• ‘Design Thinking’ course leading to independent project shall be evaluated based on
capstone project for 100 marks.
• Evaluation of the course shall consist of both CIE and SIE.
• CIE shall be evaluated for 40 marks by a committee consisting of Head of the Department,
course coordinator/teacher and senior faculty member of the department.
• CIE shall be made on the basis of two seminars conducted and as per the evaluation format
provided by the DoA.
• SEE shall be evaluated for 60 marks by a committee consisting of Head of the Department,
course coordinator/teacher and an external expert from industry.
• As part of the evaluation, a student shall submit a detailed report regarding the design idea
and its conception into a prototype/simulation model etc.
Page | 17
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
16.6 Internship:
• A student shall take up 01 credit summer internship in an industry/research
organization/institution during the summer vacation after fourth semester (II year
II semester) of the B.Tech. programme.
• Internship shall be carried out for a minimum period of 02 weeks and maximum of 04 weeks.
• Internship shall be evaluated for 100 marks in the fifth semester (III year I semester). There
shall be no CIE for internship.
• Evaluation of the Internship shall be done by a committee consisting of the Head of the
Department, faculty supervisor and a senior faculty member of the department.
• A student shall submit a detailed report regarding the internship and present it before the
committee for evaluation.
16.7 Industry Oriented Mini-Project:
• A student shall undergo an industry oriented mini-project, in collaboration with an industry of
their specialization, during the summer vacation after sixth semester (III year II semester) of
the B.Tech. programme.
• Industry oriented mini-project shall be carried out for a minimum period of 04 weeks and
maximum of 06 weeks.
• Evaluation of the mini-project shall be done by a committee consisting of the Head of the
Department, faculty supervisor and a senior faculty member of the department.
• The industry oriented mini-project shall be submitted in a report form and presented before a
committee, which shall evaluate it for 100 marks. There shall be no CIE for industry oriented
mini-project.
• However, attending the shadow engineering programme or any such other programme, in
lieu thereof, is a pre-requisite for evaluating industry oriented mini-project.
16.8 Major Project:
• A student shall initiate major project in seventh semester (IV year I semester) and continue it
in the eighth semester (IV year II semester).
• Major Project shall be carried out in two stages i.e. Phase-I in the seventh semester and
Phase-II in the eighth semester.
• Project shall be evaluated for a total of 200 marks. Out of which, Major Project Phase-I shall
be evaluated for 100 marks in seventh semester and Major Project Phase-II for 100 marks in
eighth semester.
• Evaluation of Major Project Phase-I and Major Project Phase-II shall consist of both CIE and
SEE in each semester.
• CIE shall be carried out for 40 marks both in Phase-I and Phase-II.
• CIE shall be done by a committee consisting of Head of the Department, project supervisor
and senior faculty member of the Department.
• CIE shall be done on the basis of two seminars conducted in each semester as per the
academic calendar and as per the evaluation format provided by the DoA.
• SEE shall be carried out for 60 marks in both Phase-I and Phase-II.
• SEE in Phase-I shall be conducted by a committee consisting of Head of the Department, the
project supervisor and one senior faculty of the programme.
• SEE in Phase-II (project viva-voce) shall be conducted by a committee consisting of an
external examiner, Head of the Department, the project supervisor and one senior faculty of
the programme.
Page | 18
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
16.9 MOOC:
• Meeting with the global requirements, to inculcate the habit of self-learning and in
compliance with the UGC guidelines, MOOC (Massive Open Online Courses) have been
introduced in these regulations.
• The proposed MOOCs would be additional choices in all the elective group courses subject to
their offering in the department as well as their availability in the MOOC platform during the
respective semesters.
• Concerned departments shall declare the list of the courses that a student can pursue
through MOOCs at the beginning of the semester.
• Students interested in pursuing MOOCs shall register the course title at their department
office at the start of the semester against the courses that are announced by the
department.
• Course content for the selected MOOCs shall be drawn from the respective MOOCs link or
shall be supplied by the department.
• Course progress shall be monitored by the course coordinator designated by the HoD.
• Assessment & evaluation of the courses shall be done by the respective MOOC Coordinator.
• Grade obtained through the evaluation of the selected course pursued through MOOC shall
be considered for the SGPA/CGPA calculation.
• Three credits shall be awarded upon successful completion of each MOOC course.
16.10 Value Added Courses:
• The value added courses / certificate courses offered through joint ventures with various
industries / organizations provide ample scope for the students as well as faculty to keep
pace with the latest technologies pertaining to their chosen field of studies.
• A plenty of value added programmes shall be proposed by the departments one week before
the commencement of classes.
• The students are given the option to choose the course inclinations as per their choice.
• Students interested in pursuing value added courses shall register for the courses in the
department office at the beginning of the semester against the courses that are announced
by the department.
• Course progress shall be monitored by the course coordinator designated by the HoD.
• Result of value added courses shall be declared with “Satisfactory” or “Not Satisfactory”
performance.
• Grade obtained through value added course shall not be considered for the SGPA/CGPA
calculation.
16.11 Mandatory and Audit Courses:
• A student shall pursue the entire mandatory and audit courses as specified in the course
structure of the B.Tech. programme.
• These courses are among the compulsory courses and do not carry any credits.
• The students shall have four chances in total to clear a specific mandatory and audit course.
• Mandatory courses shall not carry any credits but, securing 40 marks out of 100, shall be
necessary requirement for the student to qualify for the award of Degree.
• Result of mandatory and audit courses shall be declared with “Satisfactory” or “Not
Satisfactory” performance.
• No marks or letter grade shall be allotted.
16.12 Virtual Laboratories:
• The Virtual Laboratories are internet enabled experiments for remote operation so as to
enhance the curiosity and innovation of students and provide hands-on sessions. The main
Page | 19
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
aim of virtual labs is to enthuse the students about performing ‘experiments’ and thereby
getting them interested in their respective disciplines in a meaningful way. It is expected that
the competence level of the engineering students will enhance through the use of these labs.
• Advanced laboratories / experiments that are not existing in the Institute and are required for
supplementing the knowledge gained in specific course(s) may be pursued by the students
though the use of Virtual Labs.
• Departments offering B.Tech. programmes shall define the list of virtual laboratories that a
student can take up during the duration of course of study.
• The decision to pursue a virtual laboratory course by a student shall be optional and also in
addition to the mandatory requirement of pursuing practical courses as specified in the
course structure of the programme.
• The virtual laboratories / experiments that a student decides to pursue must be
communicated to the Academic Section through HoD.
17.0 CONDUCT OF SEMESTER END EXAMINATIONS AND EVALUATION:
• Semester end examination (SEE) shall be conducted by the Controller of Examinations (CoE)
by inviting Question Papers from the External Examiners.
• Question papers may be moderated for the coverage of syllabus, pattern of questions by an
examiner appointed by the CoE. The appointed examiner shall prepare a detailed answer key
and scheme of valuation and submit it to the CoE.
• Laboratory SEE shall be conducted involving internal and external examiners as defined in
these regulations.
18.0 SCHEME FOR THE AWARD OF DEGREE:
❖ Award of B.Tech. Degree:
• A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. degree if he/she fulfils the
following academic regulations:
• Pursued a programme of study for not less than four academic years and not more than
eight academic years.
• Registered for 160 credits and secured a minimum of 160 credits.
NOTE: Students, who fail to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award of the degree
within eight academic years from the year of their admission, shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech.
programme.
19.0 PERFORMANCE AND GRADING SYSTEM:
• Performances of students in each of the courses in the programme are expressed in terms of
Letter Grades based on an absolute grading system. The 10-point grading system with letter
grades and their grade points are shown in the Table 8.
Page | 20
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
Table 8 Grade and Grade Points
Description of
Marks Obtained Letter Grade Grade Points (GP)
Grade
>=90 O Outstanding 10.00
>=80 and <89.99 A+ Excellent 9.00
>=70 and <79.99 A Very Good 8.00
>=60 and <69.99 B+ Good 7.00
>=50 and <59.99 B Average 6.00
>=40 and <49.99 C Pass 5.00
<40 F Fail --
Not Appeared in the Exam(s) Ab Absent --
• A student is eligible for the award of the B.Tech. degree with the class as mentioned in the
Table 9.
Table9 CGPA and Class
CGPA Class
>= 7.5 First Class with Distinction
>=6.5 and <7.5 First Class
>=5.5 and <6.5 Second Class
>=5.0 and <5.5 Pass Class
• For mandatory and audit courses (non-credit), student shall be awarded ‘Satisfactory’ or
“Not satisfactory” without any credit. This shall not be counted for the computation of
SGPA/CGPA.
20.0 COMPUTATION OF SGPA AND CGPA:
➢ CALCULATION OF SEMESTER GRADE POINT AVERAGE (SGPA):
• The performance of each student at the end of each semester shall be indicated in terms of
SGPA. The SGPA shall be calculated as below:
Total earned weighted grade points in a semester
SGPA =
Total credits in a semester
∑P C ∗G
i=1 i i
SGPA=
∑P C
i=1 i
Where C = Number of credits allotted to a particular course ‘i’
i
G = Grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to the course ‘i’
i
i = 1,2,…..p represent the number of courses in a particular semester
NOTE: SGPA is calculated and awarded to those students who pass all the courses in a semester.
Page | 21
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
➢ CALCULATION OF CUMULATIVE GRADE POINT AVERAGE (CGPA):
The CGPA of a student for the entire programme shall be calculated as given below:
• Assessment of the overall performance of a student shall be obtained by calculating
cumulative grade point average (CGPA), which is weighted average of the grade points
obtained in all courses during the course of study.
Total earned weighted grade points for the entire programme
CGPA=
Total credits for the entire programme
∑m C ∗G
j=1 j j
CGPA=
∑m C
j=1 j
Where C = number of credits allotted to a particular course ‘j’
j
G = grade point corresponding to the letter grade awarded to that course ‘j’
j
j = 1,2,….m represent the number of courses of the entire programme.
• Grade lower than C in any course shall not be considered for CGPA calculation. The CGPA shall
be awarded only when the student acquires the required number of credits prescribed for
the programme.
➢ GRADE CARD:
The grade card issued shall contain the following:
a) The credits for each course offered in that semester
b) The letter grade and grade point awarded in each course
c) The SGPA/CGPA
d) Total number of credits earned by the student up to the end of that semester.
➢ ILLUSTRATION OF COMPUTATION OF SGPA AND CGPA
❖ Illustration of calculation of SGPA:
Course Credits Letter Grade Point Credit Point
Course Name
(C) Grade (GP) (CP = C x GP)
Course 1 3 A 8 3 x 8 = 24
Course 2 4 B+ 7 4 x 7 = 28
Course 3 3 B 6 3 x 6 = 18
Course 4 3 O 10 3 x 10 = 30
Course 5 3 C 5 3 x 5 = 15
Course 6 4 B 6 4 x 6 = 24
TOTAL
20 TOTAL CREDIT POINTS 139
CREDITS
139
Thus, SGPA = = 6.95
20
Page | 22
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
❖ Illustration of calculation of CGPA upto II semester:
Course Credits Letter Grade Grade Point Credit Point
Semester Course Name
(C) Secured (GP) (CP = C x GP)
I Course 1 4 A 8 32
I Course 2 4 O 10 40
I Course 3 4 B 6 24
I Course 4 1.5 C 5 7.5
I Course 5 1.5 A+ 9 13.5
I Course 6 3 B+ 7 21
I Course 7 1 O 10 10
II Course 8 4 C 5 20
II Course 9 4 A 8 32
II Course 10 2 A 8 16
II Course 11 3 A+ 9 27
II Course 12 1.5 B 6 9
II Course 13 1 A 8 8
II Course 14 2 A+ 9 18
II Course 15 2.5 A 8 20
TOTAL CREDITS 39 TOTAL CREDIT POINTS 298
298
Thus, CGPA = = 7.64
39
• The above illustrated process of calculation of CGPA shall be followed for each subsequent
semester until eight semester i.e., (IV year II semester).
• The CGPA obtained at the end of eight semester i.e., (IV year II semester) shall be the final
CGPA secured by the student for the entire B.Tech. programme.
21.0 REVALUATION:
• Student can register for the revaluation by paying a prescribed fee.
• The Controller of Examinations (CoE) shall arrange for the revaluation and declare the results.
• Revaluation shall not be permitted to the courses other than theory courses.
22.0 CREDIT TRANSFER:
• Credit transfer of a student from other Institution to VNRVJIET is permitted for under-
graduate programme as per the GOs from the Government of Telangana.
❖ Credit transfer from another Institution to VNRVJIET:
• A student studying in another Institution can take transfer to VNRVJIET against notification
and orders issued by the Government of Telangana, under the following conditions:
✓ When a student seeks transfer, equivalent credits shall be assigned to the student based
on the courses studied earlier by the student.
✓ The student, when transferred from other Institution, must follow the rules and
regulations of VNRVJIET.
✓ To graduate from VNRVJIET, a transferred student must study at least half of the
minimum duration prescribed for a programme at VNRVJIET.
23.0 WITH-HOLDING OF RESULTS:
• If a student has not paid the pending dues to the institute / if any case of indiscipline /
malpractice is pending against him, the results of such student shall be withheld.
Page | 23
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
• The issue of the award of the provisional certificate and the B.Tech. degree is liable to be
withheld in such cases.
24.0 DISCIPLINE:
• Every student is required to observe discipline and decorum both inside and outside the
institute and not to indulge in any activity which shall tend to bring down the honor of the
institute.
• If a student indulges in malpractice in any of the theory / practical CIE or SEE, he shall be liable
for punitive action as prescribed by the Institute from time to time.
25.0 TRANSITORY REGULATIONS:
• A student who has discontinued or has been detained for want of attendance or any other
academic requirements, may be considered for re-admission as and when he becomes
eligible.
• He shall take up equivalent courses, as substitute courses in place of repeated courses as
decided by the Chairman of the BoS of the respective departments.
• He shall be admitted under the regulation of the batch in which he is readmitted.
26.0 There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission process.
27.0 The decision of the Institute Academic Committee shall be final in respect of equivalent
courses for those students who are transferred from other colleges. The transfer of students
from other college to VNRVJIET is to be approved by the Governing Council of the Institute.
28.0 MINIMUM INSTRUCTION DAYS:
• The minimum instruction days for each semester shall be 16 weeks.
29.0 GENERAL:
• Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include “she”, “her”,
“hers”.
• The academic regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any interpretation.
• In the case of any discrepancy/ambiguity/doubt arising in the above rules and regulations, the
decision of the Principal shall be final.
• The Chairman, Academic Council may change or amend any or all of the academic regulations
or syllabi at any time and the changes or amendments made shall be applicable to all the
students concerned with effect from the dates as notified by the Institute.
Page | 24
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS FOR B.TECH. - LATERAL ENTRY SCHEME (LES)
(Applicable for students admitted from the academic year 2019-2020)
30.0 MINIMUM ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS:
• Attendance requirements and detention policy of four year B.Tech. regular degree
programmes as specified in 13.0 of these regulations is adopted for students admitted to
B.Tech. degree programme under lateral entry scheme (LES).
• Academic performance requirements as specified in 14.0 of these regulations are adopted for
students admitted to B.Tech. degree programme under lateral entry scheme (LES).
• Student who fails to fulfill all the academic requirements for the award of the degree within
six academic years from the year of their admission, shall forfeit his/her seat in B.Tech.
programme and his/her admission stands cancelled.
31.0 PROMOTION POLICY:
Apart from the minimum required attendance conditions as specified in 13.0 of these
regulations, the credit conditions to be fulfilled by a student for getting promoted from the
current semester to the next semester are given below:
• For promotion from fourth semester (II year II semester) to fifth semester (III year
I semester), a student shall have 50% of the total credits up to fourth semester (II year
II semester) of the B.Tech. programme of study.
• For promotion from sixth semester (III year II semester) to seventh semester (IV year
I semester), a student shall have 60% of the total credits up to sixth semester (III year
II semester) of the B.Tech. programme of study.
32.0 SCHEME FOR THE AWARD OF DEGREE:
❖ Award of B.Tech. Degree:
A lateral entry student shall be declared eligible for the award of the B. Tech. degree if he/she
fulfils the following academic regulations:
• Pursued a programme of study for not less than three academic years and not more than six
academic years.
• Registered for 122 credits and secured a minimum of 122 credits for Civil Engineering,
Mechanical Engineering and Automobile Engineering branches whereas registered for 121
credits and secured a minimum of 121 credits for Electrical & Electronics Engineering,
Electronics & Communication Engineering, Computer Science & Engineering, Electronics &
Instrumentation Engineering and Information Technology branches.
Page | 25
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
MALPRACTICE RULES
DISCIPLINARY ACTION FOR IMPROPER CONDUCT IN EXAMINATIONS
Nature of Malpractices/Improper conduct Punishment
S.No.
If the student:
1. (a) Possesses or keeps accessible in Expulsion from the examination hall and
examination hall, any paper, note book, cancellation of the performance in that
programmable calculators, cell phones, course only.
pager, palm computers or any other form of
material concerned with or related to the
course of the examination (theory or
practical) in which he is appearing but has
not made use of (material shall include any
marks on the body of the student which can
be used as an aid in the course of the
examination)
(b) Gives assistance or guidance or receives it Expulsion from the examination hall and
from any other student orally or by any cancellation of the performance in that
other body language methods or course only of all the students involved. In
communicates through cell phones with any case of an outsider, he shall be handed
student or persons in or outside the exam over to the police and a case is registered
hall in respect of any matter. against him.
2. Has copied in the examination hall from any Expulsion from the examination hall and
paper, book, programmable calculators, cancellation of the performance in that
palm computers or any other form of course and all other courses the student
material relevant to the course of the has already appeared including practical
examination (theory or practical) in which examinations and project work and shall
the student is appearing. not be permitted to appear for the
remaining examinations of the courses of
that Semester/year.
The Hall Ticket of the student is to be
cancelled and sent to the Controller of
Examinations.
3. Impersonates any other student in The student who has impersonated shall
connection with the examination. be expelled from examination hall. The
student is also debarred and forfeits the
seat. The performance of the original
student, who has been impersonated, shall
be cancelled in all the courses of the
examination (including practicals and
project work) already appeared and shall
not be allowed to appear for examinations
of the remaining courses of that
semester/year. The student is also
debarred for two consecutive semesters
from class work and all semester end
examinations. The continuation of the
course by the student is course to the
Page | 26
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
academic regulations in connection with
forfeiture of seat. If the imposter is an
outsider, he shall be handed over to the
police and a case is registered against him.
4. Smuggles in the Answer book or additional Expulsion from the examination hall and
sheet or takes out or arranges to send out cancellation of performance in that course
the question paper during the examination and all the other courses the student has
or answer book or additional sheet, during already appeared including practical
or after the examination. examinations and project work and shall
not be permitted for the remaining
examinations of the courses of that
semester/year. The student is also
debarred for two consecutive semesters
from class work and all semester end
examinations. The continuation of the
course by the student is course to the
academic regulations in connection with
forfeiture of seat.
5. Uses objectionable, abusive or offensive Cancellation of the performance in that
language in the answer paper or in letters course.
to the examiners or writes to the examiner
requesting him to award pass marks.
6. Refuses to obey the orders of the Controller In case of students of the college, they
of Examinations /Additional Controller of shall be expelled from examination halls
Examinations/any officer on duty or and cancellation of their performance in
misbehaves or creates disturbance of any that course and all other courses the
kind in and around the examination hall or student(s) has (have) already appeared
organizes a walk out or instigates others to and shall not be permitted to appear for
walk out, or threatens the COE or any the remaining examinations of the courses
person on duty in or outside the of that semester/year. The students also
examination hall of any injury to his person are debarred and forfeit their seats. In
or to any of his relations whether by words, case of outsiders, they shall be handed
either spoken or written or by signs or by over to the police and a police case is
visible representation, assaults the COE or registered against them.
any person on duty in or outside the
examination hall or any of his relations, or
indulges in any other act of misconduct or
mischief which result in damage to or
destruction of property in the examination
hall or any part of the Institute premises or
engages in any other act which in the
opinion of the officer on duty amounts to
use of unfair means or misconduct or has
the tendency to disrupt the orderly conduct
of the examination.
7. Leaves the exam hall taking away answer Expulsion from the examination hall and
script or intentionally tears of the script or cancellation of performance in that course
any part thereof inside or outside the and all the other courses the student has
examination hall. already appeared including practical
examinations and project work and shall
not be permitted for the remaining
Page | 27
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
examinations of the courses of that
semester/year. The student is also
debarred for two consecutive semesters
from class work and all semester end
examinations. The continuation of the
course by the student is course to the
academic regulations in connection with
forfeiture of seat.
8. Possess any lethal weapon or firearm in the Expulsion from the examination hall and
examination hall. cancellation of the performance in that
course and all other courses the student
has already appeared including practical
examinations and project work and shall
not be permitted for the remaining
examinations of the courses of that
semester/year. The student is also
debarred and forfeits the seat.
9. Is not a candidate for the particular Such a candidate shall be expelled from
examination or any person not connected the examination hall and performance in
with the college indulges in any malpractice that course and all other courses the
or improper conduct mentioned in clause 6 student has already appeared including
to 8. practical examinations and project work
and shall not be permitted for the
remaining examinations of the courses of
that semester/year. The student is also
debarred and forfeits the seat.
Person(s) who do not belong to the
College shall be handed over to police and,
a police case shall be registered against
them.
10. Comes in a drunken condition to the Expulsion from the examination hall and
examination hall. cancellation of the performance in that
course and all other courses the student
has already appeared including practical
examinations and project work and shall
not be permitted for the remaining
examinations of the courses of that
semester/year.
11. Copying detected on the basis of internal Cancellation of the performance in that
evidence, such as, during valuation or course and all other courses the student
during special scrutiny. has appeared including practical
examinations and project work of that
semester/year examinations.
12. If any malpractice is detected which is not
covered in the above clauses 1 to 11 shall be
reported to the University for further action
to award suitable punishment.
Page | 28
VNRVJIET B.Tech. R18 CBCS Regulations
Malpractices identified by squad or special invigilators:
Punishments shall be given to the students as per the above guidelines.
Malpractice identified at Spot center during valuation:
The following procedure shall be followed in the case of malpractice cases detected during
valuation, scrutiny etc. at spot center:
1) Malpractice is detected at the spot valuation.
The case is to be referred to the malpractice committee. Malpractice committee shall meet and
discuss/question the student and based on the evidences, the committee shall recommend
suitable action on the student.
2) A notice is to be served to the student(s) involved, through the Principal, to his address and to
the student(s) permanent address regarding the malpractice and seek explanations.
3) The involvement of staff who are in-charge of conducting examinations, invigilators,
examiners valuing examination papers and preparing / keeping records of documents related to
the examinations in such acts (inclusive of providing incorrect or misleading information) that
infringe upon the course of natural justice to one and all concerned at the examinations shall be
viewed seriously and recommend for award of appropriate punishment after thorough enquiry.
4) Based on the explanation by the party involved and recommendations of the committee
action may be initiated.
5) Malpractice committee:
i. Dean of Academics Chairman
ii. Controller of Examinations Convener
iii. Invigilator Member
iv. Chief Examiner of the course/course expert Member
v. Concerned Head of the Department Member
Page | 29
